Strategic Plan 
2016-2021
Strategic Plan 
2016-2021
Developing the Future
A cura del Gruppo di lavoro sul Piano strategico
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 5 Introduction
Strategic Plan 2016-2021
1 Strategy Foundations
1.1 Mission
1.2 Vision
1.3 Values
1.4 Stakeholders
1.5 Sapienza @ Glance 
2 The Strategic Planning Process 
2.1 Positioning Analysis
3 Strategic Objectives
3.1 Ensure a sustainable, quality education, 
 even at the international level
3.2 Improve the productivity and quality of research, 
 even at the international level
3.3 Pursue socially responsible development
3.4 Guarantee sustainable space, structures and construction
3.5 Ensure quality and transparency, simplification and participation
Afterword
Glossary7
 9
11
12
12
13
14
18 
25
26
33
 
34
 
36
38
40
42 
45
49Summary
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 7Sapienza University was one of the first Italian universities to initiate a strategic planning 
process, nearly ten years ago.
The first Strategic Plan (2007-2012) allowed the university to define the mission, vision 
and values that form the university’s identity, while the second plan (2012-2015) reinterpreted its strategic role, aligning it with new changes introduced by legislative requirements and internal reorganisation.
The present Strategic Plan (2016-2021) has been developed during a period of economic crisis 
that has witnessed the reduction of public funding for the university system. More than ever before, it is a fundamental tool to invest on the future and an opportunity to redefine the university’s strategic outlook: excellence-level education and research, the international role  
of Sapienza University and the guarantee of an effective right-to-study for our students.
Over the course of its long history, Sapienza University has faced profound changes 
that have transformed it into what the university is now. It is with this awareness, buttressed by our past, that we embark on a new journey to create the future. Strategic objectives must be renewed and updated to keep abreast of the times, but without forgetting the past or uncritically following current trends.
This is not an easy bet for Sapienza, which remains a large, generalist university that aims 
to provide everyone with a quality education, whilst pursuing scientific excellence and merit. The objective is to promote an idea of shared culture that is open to dialogue, not only with the scientific and academic community, but also to society and the country, in general, an inclusive and service vocation at large. 
Eugenio Gaudio, 
Rector, Sapienza University of RomeIntroduction
Rector Eugenio Gaudio with CIAO Orientation Office Student Collaborators
Strategic Plan  
2016-2021
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 11Sapienza’s strategic decisions 
are deeply rooted in its history, 
its unique characteristics 
and the many local resources it can draw upon.
•	It is a public university 
founded centuries ago. It is 
the largest university in Europe 
and has a prestigious and prominent cultural 
and scientific heritage.
•	It is in Rome, the capital 
of Italy, a timeless city of art and history, and seat 
to the Italian Government.
•	Its university campus 
is referred to as “a city in the city.”
•	It has a museum network with 18 museums and other 
important structures (Theatres, 
Botanical Garden, etc.) that are part of the local cultural system.•	It has a library system composed of 55 libraries 
that allow the conservation, 
promotion and integrated management of Sapienza’s 
documentary heritage. 
•	It has 11 faculties, 
63 departments and a School of Advanced Studies 
with interdisciplinary 
programmes for top-level students.
•	It has a partnership 
with the “Unitelma Sapienza” 
on-line university; 
•	It has two university hospitals that are integrated 
into the university’s didactic, 
scientific and care activities.1. Strategy Foundations
Arturo Martini’s Minerva (detail)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 12 13
La missione1.1 Mission
Sapienza is a
“research, study and educational 
community in which 
professors, administrators, 
technical/administrative staff and students participate 
fully in the context of their 
respective competences, functions and responsibilities…” 
[Art. 1, Statute]
 
Thus, the mission of Sapienza University 
is defined as follows: 
“Sapienza University contributes 
to the development 
of a knowledge society through 
research, high-quality education and international cooperation.” 
[Art. 1, General Regulations]1.2 Vision
Sapienza is characterized by a rich historical heritage and identity. 
Its vast portfolio of competences allows it to provide excellence 
in education and research, 
at a national and international level, as well as to be a protagonist 
of local economic 
and social processes.
The vision of Sapienza University 
is worded as follows:
“Sapienza is a free and independent university 
that participates 
in the international 
scientific community 
as an institution of excellence and quality in education 
and research. It is at the centre 
of the economic development of the city and the country.” 
[Art. 1, General Regulations]
La visione
I valori1.3 Values
The values 
that define the identity 
of Sapienza University include:
•	Freedom of thought 
and research to ensure 
a plurality of cultures and ideas;
•	Social responsibility 
(education and research 
that contribute to the civil and economic 
development of society, 
the city and the country);
•	Independence in scientific, 
didactic and organisational 
matters, as well as in terms of finance and accounting;
•	Competitiveness 
in the university system;
•	Participation in all facets 
of the university community (professors, students, 
technical-administrative staff);•	Inseparable nature of research and teaching 
(educational activity can only be developed through 
adequate research activities);
•	Orientation towards 
excellence and innovation in research and education 
as an investment in the future;
•	Evaluation and merit through 
an assessment system based on merit for university activities;
•	Transparency with special 
reference to the educational 
agreement between the university and students;
•	Orientation towards 
continuous improvement 
as a guiding management criterion;
•	Development 
of professional competences 
in educational processes;
•	Orientation towards service of students and other interlocutors.
“RoboExNovo Robots” Project – European Research Council Starting Grant Noble Prize Winners and Famous Professors and Graduates

Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 14 151.4 Stakeholders
The strategies of the university 
– conceived as a dynamic system 
of relations and values – must 
address all the stakeholders who, directly or indirectly, are involved 
in the activities of the organisation.
The identification of the individuals 
and groups who can influence 
or be influenced by Sapienza policy is a fundamental step to understand 
their needs and improve 
both the efficiency and efficacy 
of university operations.Sapienza is at the centre 
of a network of interactions, 
as well as modern 
and strategic values, that involve:
•	Students – the foremost 
beneficiaries of the knowledge construction and transmission 
process are Italian 
and international students, including student workers 
and working students.; 
•	Alumni – former students 
who also enjoy placement services and can create 
the university community, 
even after ending their studies; 
•	Families – all those who are interested in the professional 
future of their children, but also 
are potential beneficiaries of lifelong learning processes;
•	Civil Society – everyone 
who is interested in participating 
and sharing in sharing science and knowledge;
•	Secondary School 
– which is in constant contact 
with the university to inform and orient future students;
•	Italian and foreign 
universities – partners 
that strengthen the virtuous relationship between society 
and academia, as well 
as competitors on the global market for education 
and scientific production;•	Agencies – associations, 
foundations and consortiums 
that promote education 
and research;
•	Local, national and international institutions (Region, Metropolitan City, 
Municipality, Ministries, 
European Union, etc.) – with which relations 
are fundamental both to abate 
the risk of becoming self-referential and to access 
all opportunities to share new policy; 
•	National Government (particularly the Ministry 
of Education, University and Research) – as our main source  
of financing and legislation;
•	Productive world (enterprise, non-profits) – as a destination 
for the professional competences 
and skills developed through study and an interlocutor 
interested in the development 
of human capital and the results of scientific and applied research;
•	Service and product providers – for the relevant effects 
on the local economy;
•	Media and communications 
– the press and all other media that transmit information;
•	National and international scientific community 
– interested in the evolution 
of knowledge.
Gli stakeholder External 
Stakeholders
Student Life
Students and Families at the Sapienza “Open Days” in July
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 16 17Internal 
StakeholdersThe university community 
is composed of solidary actors 
in a process that aims to promote 
knowledge, research, innovation and education:
•	Academic staff – as promoters 
of an extraordinary trove of 
knowledge and know-how:
 – Professors 
 – Researchers 
 – Faculty Deans 
 – Department Directors 
•	Technical, Administrative 
and Library staff – a wealth 
of operative, technical-specialist 
and management know-how in the central administration 
and structures of the university:
 – Directors 
 – Office Managers 
 – Sector Managers 
 – Deputy Administrative Directors 
 – Managers
•	University Governance
 – Rector 
 – Academic Senate 
 – Management Board 
 – Director General 
 – Audit Committee 
 – Assessment Committee 
 – Deputy Rectors and Delegates 
 – Quality Committee 
 – Peer Commissions 
 – Monitoring Committees 
 – Guarantee Committee 
 – Degree Programme Committees 
 – Trade Unions 
  and Student Representatives
Visit by Moscow State University of Medicine Delegation – March 21, 2016Humanities “Angelo Monteverdi” Library – One of Sapienza’s 55 Libraries
 Private Law Library – Open 24HLaw Lecture Hall V – Renovated between 2015 and 2016
 Info Desk for Student Services and Associations
New Organic Chemistry Labs (detail)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 18 19
1.5 Sapienza @ GlanceStudents 
enrolled 
2015-2016
111.602
students enrolled 
in all educational programmes
27.095
first-year students
18.144
 graduates in 20159.554
graduate students  
enrolled in PhD 
programmes102.048
students enrolled 
in bachelors and masters 
programmes
1
main campus
63
departments1303
year 
of foundation
16
campuses 
in Rome
11
faculties14
campuses outside Rome
1
school of 
advanced studies
25
research centres13
management areas
55
libraries2
university hospitals1
school of aerospace2 
decentralised campuses: 
Latina & Rieti
18
museums
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 18 19 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 20 21
443
contact lecturers
65
medical area87
1st level 
master courses25
international programmes
3
dentistry area154
2nd level master courses8
sanitary area
5
psychological areaEducational 
Programmes 
2015-2016
88
specialization 
schools241
masters78
PhD programmes152
bachelors programmes102
masters programmes13
single cycle (bachelors+masters)  
programmesPersonnel 
(31.12.2015)763
full professors
1.391
university 
researchers1.248
associate professors
157
university researchers  
(fixed-term contract)4.002
academic personnel
2.243
administrative & technical 
personnel69
language 
teaching 
assistants
1.919
administrative personnel 
in university hospitals6protection,  
   management 
and enhancement of cultural 
heritage area1
legal professions 
area
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 20 21 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 22 23
^ Science Lab Trials
^ New Student Office – Political Science, Sociology and Communications v Child Experimenting with Augmented Reality – Maker Faire 2015 ^ Students at Sapienza “Open Days” v Tor di Quinto Sports Facilities v “Giovanni Boaga” Engineering Library ^ Valle Giulia Faculty of Architecture
v Museum System Info Point
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 25To invest resolutely in the future, 
Sapienza must act as a protagonist 
in the process of continuous 
innovation of the university system and in the overall framework 
of the knowledge society.
Indeed, Sapienza aims at 
increasingly higher levels of quality, 
promoting and catalysing a fruitful synergy between education 
and research that will make 
Sapienza the driving force behind policies for development 
and innovation, as well 
as a reference point for enterprise and local activities.
In this sense, this strategic plan 
is an essential tool to outline 
the areas for development 
that the university intends to pursue and the strategy 
to accomplish these objectives.
This third strategic plan builds 
upon previous plans and arises 
as a natural evolution of the university 
strategic outlook that has been 
updated to reflect the new social, legislative and evolutionary context.2. The Strategic 
Planning Process 
This update began with an analysis of the previous 
strategic outlook based 
on the results obtained over 2012-15 and the university 
policy documents.
A committee, formed by political 
and administrative directors, 
provided the elements necessary to update this document.
“Open Sapienza” Storytelling – Transparency and Anti-Corruption Day (May 18, 2015)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 26 27The positioning analysis 
was based on various 
university documents (see table) 
to implement policy coherent with the national strategy 
and the objectives 
of the European Higher Education Area.
In fact, pursuing objectives 
such as:
•	Developing good quality 
higher education for everyone,
•	Increasing the employment 
prospects of graduates 
and strengthening international mobility as a tool 
for improving education
allows universities to implement 
significant changes and pursue 
the route undertaken 
with the Bologna Process.Relevant Ministerial Documents
MIUR Outlook 2016
National Research Programme 2015-2020EU Horizon 2020 Framework ProgrammeANVUR Report on State of University 
and Research System 2016
Ministerial Decree 335/2015 – Criteria 
for Assignment of Funding 2015
Ministerial Decree 552/2016 - Criteria 
for Assignment of Funding 2016. 
Ministerial Decree 635/2016: 
General Guidelines for University 2016-2018 and Indicators for Periodic Result Assessment
AVA System (ANVUR 
& DDMM documents)
University Documents
Strategic Plan 2012-2015
Programme 2013-2015Rector’s Electoral Programme 
(2014-2020)
NVA Annual Report 2015 & 2016
Performance Reports 2014 & 2015Social Budget 2015
Budget 2015
Quality Policy and Objectives 2016In addition to the institutional 
educational mission, 
the key issues that inspired 
the process of strategic planning focused on:
•	the central role of students
•	the international dimension
•	the third mission 
– greater attention 
to the social role 
of the university through quality, transparency, participation 
and simplification.
Moreover, the document 
also incorporates all the strategic 
guidelines indicated 
by the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR), 
with special attention 
to making the university increasingly competitive 
on the international level.2.1 Positioning 
Analysis
A new SWOT Analysis 
was conducted to focus 
on the new strategic planning 
process and identify the pros and cons of the internal context 
and the opportunities and threats 
deriving from external factors. The results highlighted 
the most promising strategic 
actions, associated with reference indicators, 
that will represent that starting 
point for the university’s activities.
Prince Rania al-Abd Allah of Jordan Receives Honorary Degree (December 10, 2015)Restoration of Mario Sironi’s Mural in the Aula Magna
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 28 29
Last, but not least, 
are the decrees regulating 
the allocation of FFO funds 
and staff management over the past years to identify 
the best actions to implement 
to optimise the assignment of resources, both in terms 
of funding and human resources, 
based on the increasing merit-based character of these allocations.The results of the positioning analysis are illustrated below.The General Planning Outline for the University System decree is another policy document 
that identifies the objectives, 
actions and areas for which each university is called to adopt 
coherent programmes. 
Over 2016-18, besides improving the previous results obtained 
through strategic actions, 
the decree indicates further objectives such as modernization 
of study and research environments, 
innovation of didactic methodologies, recruitment 
of young researchers 
and merit-based awards for academic staff. Moreover, 
for the first time, an explicit 
connection has been drawn between first-cycle degrees 
and the merit-based quota 
of university FFO funding (“Fondo di finanziamento ordinario”)  
with the objective of promoting independence, revealing the growing interconnection 
between planning, obtaining 
objectives and rewards.Specific attention was paid to university orientation documents, including the MIUR document 
that identified policy priorities 
for 2016 and relative activity areas. The most significant 
of these are:
•	increase the number of courses 
and programmes to provide 
students with a vast choice of knowledge and competences 
that are attractive to employers;
•	provide concrete work 
experience through School-Work Programmes;
•	promote a culture 
of evaluation directly related 
to educational priorities and management objectives;
•	develop orientation programmes 
to reduce the number 
of students who do not finish their degree programme 
as scheduled and/or 
who drop out;
•	develop “right to education” policy to promote merit;
•	promote the attractiveness 
and internationalisation 
of the university through global mobility of students, 
researchers and professors 
and a flexible and inter-disciplinary 
educational offer.
Erasmus+ Students at the Sapienza International Student Welcome Week
Inauguration of 2015-16 Academic Year with Italian President

Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 30 31Absence of incentives 
for academic staff
Reduction of turnover 
due to legislative barriers that limit the use of resources
Delays and lack of clear rules 
for national research and innovation strategy
Strong competition of universities 
and research centres at the local, national and international levels
Difficulty in finding 
and high cost of housing for both Italian and foreign students and professors which represents a potential threat to the city’s attractiveness
Block of national collective 
agreement contracts for technical-administrative personnel
ThreatsLimited tutoring activities 
to help prevent dropouts and delays 
in completion of studies
Presence of inactive professors 
and researchers
Presence of professors 
that provide inadequate teaching
Limited presence of foreign professors 
and researchers
Lack of a common language 
amongst technical-administrative staff Weaknesses
Lack of policy 
for managing documentation 
which delays the digitalisation 
of administrative procedures
Data management 
is not completely centralised
Average age 
of academic staff 
and technical-administrative 
personnel is quite high
Reduction of public funding and instability of resource allocation model
Unfavourable national economic 
conditions with a reduction of private investments in partnership activities with the university
Lack of a dynamic regional 
industrial system
Legislative barriers typical 
of public administrations
Lack of stable reference points 
for national university policy with often uncertain legislation
Public nature of university 
and partial reduction of university autonomy by recent legislative action
Centralised standard 
ministerial procedures devised for small universitiesManagement complexity 
due to size of university
Limited availability of student housing 
with respect to potential demand
Persistence of dropouts and delays 
in completion of studies
High student/faculty ratio 
in some faculties
Limited number of courses 
and programmes held in English
Percentage of foreign students 
out of total student population 
is below the average 
of similar universities 
Presence of the central government
Presence of several national  
and international, scientific  
and cultural, institutions,  
agencies and organisations
Presence of Sapienza  
representatives in national  
and international organisms
 
 OpportunitiesStrengths
Attractiveness of the university 
in terms of prestige 
and geographical location
Excellent reputation 
and scientific credibility 
of the university and its teachers, 
as also confirmed 
by international rankings
Wide range of educational 
programmes at all levels, 
including post-degree programmes 
and several programmes not offered 
in other regional universities
University campus spread 
over 35,000 square metres 
and prestigious historical buildings 
throughout the city of Rome
School of Advanced Studies
Partnership with the Unitelma Sapienza  
On-line UniversityAdvanced level 
of digitalized services for students 
Unique library system 
with a vast number of libraries 
(including some open 24 hours) 
and a digital research system
Active participation 
in major international networks
Significant funds available 
for international mobility 
(studies and traineeships)
Economic-financial 
structural equilibrium
Consistent presence 
of human capital 
in post-degree programmes 
(doctorates, specialisation programmes)  
and beginning research 
(post-doctoral researchers 
and scholarship holders)University collective 
agreement contracts 
with most of the resources 
linked to personnel merit 
and productivity 
to promote the achievement 
of institutional objectives
Wide range of cultural activities 
and other events for students, 
academic staff, 
technical-administrative personnel 
and citizens
A wide range of sports facilities 
that also host 
multi-disciplinary activities
Performance cycle extended 
to department structures
Great interest and resources 
dedicated to lifelong learning
Fully functional system 
for economic and assets 
accounting and single budget 
Far-reaching collaboration  
with other national and international 
universities, agencies and networks
Opening of new university office  
in Brussels to promote relations  
with the European institutions 
Large non-resident  
student population 
Extension of university housing  
with national co-financing
Extension and improvement  
of sports facilities
Sapienza brandImprovement of planning,  
control and management system
Use of anti-corruption  
and transparency tools  
for management control  
and resources
Technological and organisational 
improvement of document flow 
Implementation  
of archive simplification,  
organisation and digitalisation,  
also to gain space
Important funding opportunities 
under Horizon 2020
Piano strategico 2016-2021 Sapienza Università di Roma 30 31 Piano strategico 2016-2021 Sapienza Università di Roma
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 33Based on our analyses, 
we have defined the following 
strategic objectives::3. Strategic Objectives
These objectives are directly 
related to the strategic actions 
that define their application. 
Each group of strategic actions provides impact indicators 
that can be used to monitor 
the development of the university’s 
strategic activities throughout 
the reference period of the current plan.
.Ensure a sustainable, 
quality education, 
even at the international level
Improve the productivity 
and quality 
of research, even at the 
international level
Pursue 
socially 
responsible 
development
Guarantee sustainable space, 
structures 
and construction
Ensure quality and transparency, 
simplification 
and participation
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 34 35
Ensure 
a sustainable, 
quality education, 
even at the international level
Strategic Actions Impact Indicators
1. Promote regular 
student careers
2. Reduce student drop-out rates, even through aimed orientation and tutoring policy
3. Balance, where necessary, the student/professor ratio
4. Provide interdisciplinary and flexible programmes, with special attention 
to lifelong learning projects
5. Clearly define 
learning outcomes
6. Increase courses and programmes provided via distance-learning and/or innovative methodologies
7. Monitor educational process through student satisfaction evaluation and monitoring of educational results
8. Improve the national and international attractiveness of students and professors
9. Increase courses and programmes in English
10. Improve students’ linguistic abilities
11. Increase the global mobility of students and professors 
Percentage of students  
enrolled in the second year  
of the same degree programme 
(Bachelors, Single Cycle)
 Percentage of students  
enrolled in the second year  
of the same degree programme 
having acquired  
no less than 40 CFUs  
(Bachelors, Single Cycle)
 Drop-out rate for Years  
One and Two  
(Bachelors, Single Cycle)
 Number of applications  
to School of Advanced Studies 
calls and number of applications 
from other regions
 Number of students coming 
from other universities  
for Masters Programmes 
 Percentage of students satisfied 
with degree programme
 Number of international  
degree programmes
 Percentage of foreign students 
enrolled in year one (Bachelors, 
Single Cycle, Masters)
 Number of outgoing students 
(Erasmus+)
 Number of incoming students 
(Erasmus+)
 Number of professors  
abroad on mobility  
with Erasmus+ Programmes
 Number of visiting professors 
financed by university funds
 Percentage of degrees  
with CFUs acquired abroad3.1. Ensure Sustainable, 
High Quality Education, 
even at the International Level 
A modern university that faces 
the challenges posed 
by the job market must plan and relaunch, 
with the full involvement 
of all subject areas, a sustainable and high quality range of courses 
and programmes, characterized 
by innovative degree programmes that correspond 
to changes in society, 
new international programmes, 
adequate services structures 
for students (lecture halls and libraries, study rooms 
open 24H following the best 
international practices).
The quality of the courses 
and programmes certifies the quality of our graduates 
and, consequently, 
their attractiveness to the labour market. 
Moreover, students who pursue 
a well-designed programme with a clear objective are further aided in their careers.
In this sense, it is fundamental 
to guarantee adequate orientation 
and tutoring policies to help 
all students both in their initial choices  
and throughout their studies, 
minimizing wrong choices or difficulties that can lead 
to students abandoning 
the knowledge challenge. 
Moreover, students need not only be carefully supported 
and guided, but also listened 
to: identifying their opinions is the best tool to identify 
critical issues. Naturally, 
these issues must then be acted upon with corrective measures.
Educational internationalisation 
is a fundamental strategic objective 
for any university and Sapienza 
intends to be a leader in this process. To achieve 
an international dimension, 
the university must intensify its commitment to increase 
the number of courses 
and programmes held in English and promote the mobility 
of students and professors 
so that the university will become even more attractive 
and stimulating to both Italian 
and foreign students, who are equally global citizens.
35 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of RomeDidascalia Photo: Fulvio Ricci, Sapienza Professor and Project Virgo Coordinator, explains the detection of gravitational waves to his students (Februray 15, 2016)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 36 37
Improve 
the productivity 
and quality 
of research, even at the 
international level
Strategic Actions Impact Indicators
1. Support basic research
2. Promote technological 
innovation, infrastructure and tools for excellence in research
3. Promote and develop third mission activities
4. Monitor the scientific production of academic staff
5. Define reward mechanisms for scientific production
6. Reduce the number of inactive professors and researchers
7. Develop the ability to attract financial resources
8. Promote participation in competitive calls
9. Promote university patents
10. Promote and monitor university spin-offs and start-ups
11. Promote research mobility policy
12. Improve the international attractiveness  
of academic staff 
13. Promote research doctorates 
Average number of publications 
per professor (CUN Area)
 Income from commissioned 
research and technology transfer
 Income from competitively-
financed research
 Number of visiting professors  
per research activity financed  
by the university
 Proportion of enrolled  
doctoral students who earned  
their degree at another university
 Number of foreign  
doctoral students
 Number of doctoral students 
who request further funding  
to conduct research abroad
 Number of doctoral students  
on international mobility
 Resources funded  
for university research projects 
and major scientific tools3.2. Improve the productivity 
and quality of research, even at the international level
Scientific research is one 
of the fundamental elements 
of added value for the university. Therefore, supporting basic research 
with concrete help and driving 
its continuous improvement is a basic strategic objective, 
including the scientific monitoring 
of academic staff that will allow us to reward excellence and activate 
support measures for less active 
members and reduce their numbers.
The definition of a shared scientific 
project requires a policy 
for the purchase of major 
international-level scientific tools  
for the university that can be used 
by researchers from Italian 
and foreign universities. Moreover, an optimal management 
of the research catalogue 
is necessary to access European funds to support competitive calls. 
In this framework, it is essential 
for Sapienza to be present in Brussels, to support the university’s areas of scientific 
excellence and to undertake 
joint actions and collaborate on research projects 
with other prestigious, 
international renowned universities.As such, Sapienza is a protagonist 
of both European 
and international events. It promotes research mobility 
and collaboration 
through university funds to attract visiting professors.
A special place is reserved 
for the education 
of young researchers 
and to promote doctoral programmes. Moreover, 
the university supports student 
and graduate self-employment and the signature of agreements 
with crowdfunding platforms 
to promote research results and their transfer through 
the creation of spin-offs 
and start-ups. 
37 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of RomeDidascalia Photo: The new diffractometer (Energy Disperse X-ray Diffraction) with three detectors, designed and developed at Sapienza
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 38 39
Pursue 
socially 
responsible 
development3.3. Pursue socially 
responsible development
The right to study is a strategic 
guiding value that must be guaranteed throughout 
Sapienza University to attract 
both Italian and foreign students and accompany them along 
a process that is 
not only educational, but also one of personal growth.
This strategy must be implemented 
by improving services dedicated 
to students, including a tuition fee 
reduction policy based on family income and the continuation 
of support policies started 
in the past that will continue to make university a “social 
elevator” and multiplier 
of job opportunities for our graduates.
Moreover, Sapienza’s vast cultural 
and scientific heritage, and rich 
multidisciplinary system, represent 
a crucial resource for the knowledge society, which must play a key role 
in growth, development and 
progress. The university must act as a promoter 
of innovation, development 
and higher education for the country, the region 
and the city.This has led to the development 
of a far-reaching cultural project in which Sapienza 
is at the forefront in the promotion 
of a European knowledge society, advancing equal opportunities 
at all levels, contrasting all forms 
of discrimination, and encouraging events, public meetings 
and educational activities 
that involve the entire community.
We need commitment 
and systemic action to create the conditions for a fertile 
and continuous relationship 
with the external world, improving our communication 
channels and strengthening 
the university’s reputation, at the international level, too.
Finally, we must 
not forget that Sapienza 
is also university hospitals, 
a peculiar, added value for our university. Our commitment 
is to strengthen their role, 
even through the extension and improvement of existing 
infrastructure, and to implement 
the actions defined by the Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Lazio Region.
Didascalia Photo: One of the educational labs organised by Sapienza Professors for the Museum Saturdays Event (May 2016)
39 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome
Strategic Actions Impact Indicators
1. Improve the right to study
2. Promote integration 
with local community and economy
3. Strengthen relations with stakeholders and society, in general, improving and increasing communication channels and accountability, even in English.
4. Support the central role of students by extending dedicated services (right to study, libraries and reading rooms, university office services, stages and traineeships, job placement)
5. Promoting the global development of student personality (sports, music, theatre, cinema, and other cultural and social activities)
6. Increase Sapienza’s academic reputation and employer reputation, even internationally
7. Implement the Memorandum of Understanding with the Lazio Region and Sapienza’s General Hospitals 
Number of cultural  
events organised
 Percentage of first year students 
from other provinces in Lazio
 Maintenance/improvement  
of university national  
level rankings
 Resources dedicated  
to students
 Actions for students  
with disabilities
 Percentage of students  
who have taken advantage  
of tuition fee reduction options
 Number of scholarships
 Number of traineeships
 Economic-financial stability 
indicator (ISEF)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 40 41
Guarantee 
sustainable space, 
structures 
and constructionStrategic Actions Impact Indicators
1. Improve lecture hall capacity
2. Erect new infrastructure 
exploiting available funding opportunities
3. Modernise lecture halls, laboratories, and offices
4. Implement measures for risk prevention and safety of university buildings and areas
5. Reduce consumption and invest in energetic efficiency
6. Increase university housing and student rooms 
Square metres  
per enrolled student
 Number of seats available  
in lecture halls  
per enrolled student
 Percentage of positive comments 
by graduates  
on educational tools
 Resources dedicated  
to development of infrastructure
 Number of operations  
to restructure, expand  
and provide buildings  
with security measures
 Number of new places available 
to students in university housing.3.4. Guarantee 
sustainable space, 
structures and construction
A large university 
such as Sapienza must also enact 
a precise construction development policy. 
Infrastructure and space are 
a strategic resource for a university with myriad activities 
and competences. They are 
fundamental to improve the quality of research and education 
and to support the right to study, 
in terms of the quality of areas 
for study and work 
and for residential housing. The promotion of an infrastructural 
development policy is an important 
objective that must be accompanied by a resolute drive to reduce 
consumption and improve 
energetic efficiency.
Didascalia Photo: The new Multimedia Lab in the Rectorate Building
41 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 42 43
Ensure quality 
and transparency, 
simplification 
and participationStrategic Actions Impact Indicators
1. Identify and guarantee service 
quality standards
2. Ensure the quality  
and transparency  
of all information
3. Capitalise on the role  
and capabilities of personnel, both academic  
and technical administrative,  
even through further education
4. Simplify procedures  
and regulations of the university
5. Promote a culture  
of user satisfaction
6. Guarantee accessibility  
to and availability of data  
and information  
on university website
7. Complete activation  
of organisation  
and digitalisation processes  
to develop a truly open  
and digital administration
8. Promote university participation  
in definition of policy 
Percentage  
of technical-administrative 
personnel taking courses
 Percentage of academic staff 
recruited from outside university
 Results  
of Good Practice monitoring
 Percentage of positive  
and satisfactory evaluations 
in customer satisfaction 
assessments
 Reduction of average time  
for completion of calls  
(as per new regulations)
 Percentage of documentation 
produced and transmitted 
electronically
 Use of certified e-mail (PEC)3.5. Ensure quality 
and transparency, simplification 
and participation
University governance 
must be shared and it must act 
transparently to guarantee the availability and access 
to all information.
To stay abreast 
of the new challenges raised 
by Europe and internationalisation, the complexity and subdivisions 
of Sapienza’s administrative 
organisation require, precise, 
aimed and efficient answers 
via actions that identify service standard quality 
and the simplification 
of university procedure and regulations.
Special attention must be paid 
to personnel, notwithstanding 
the dearth of resources, 
for educational and research activities 
via merit-based 
recruitment procedures.In the greater context oriented towards the promotion 
of each university sector, 
Sapienza carefully weighs all specific needs related 
to strategic activities 
for academic staff, technical-administrative personnel 
and health/care personnel 
through specific and inclusive educational plans.
Moreover, insofar as possible, 
it is also necessary to promote 
Sapienza’s participation 
in institutional negotiations that will safeguard the interests 
of the University of Rome 
at the highest levels. 
Didascalia Photo: Student Office at the Faculty of Political Science, Communication and Sociology (Rennovated in 2016)
43 Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome
San Lorenzo 
University Buildings
circonvallazione Tiburtina 4 
via degli Apuli 1-9 via dei Piceni 37 via dei Sabelli 108 via dei Sardi 55-58-60-77 via Tiburtina 205 via dei Volsci 122
viale di Porta Tiburtina 26Regina Elena/Castro Laurenziano 
University Buildings
via Alfonso Borelli 50  
via del Castro Laurenziano 7-9 viale Regina Elena 287-291-295-324-334 via Antonio Scarpa 10-10c-12-16
via Giorgio Baglivi 16 
via Benevento 4-6 
via Caserta 6 
via Chieti 7 piazza Sassari 4a piazzale Valerio Massimo 6 
capannone C10Umberto I General Hospital  
(Policlinico Umberto I)
viale del Policlinico 155
Downtown 
University Buildings
via Ariosto 25 
piazza dei Cavalieri di Malta 2 via Eudossiana 18 piazza San Pietro in Vincoli 10 via delle Sette Sale 29 corso Vittorio Emanuele 244Flaminio  
University Buildings
piazza Borghese 9 via Emanuele Gianturco 2 via Antonio Gramsci 53 
piazzale della Marina 32 
via di Ripetta 121-123 via Flaminia 359
via Mariano Fortuni
via Salaria 113^  via Salaria 851 ^  via Tor di Quinto 64
Corso d’Italia 
37bd-38a-39
via Palestro 63-88via Volturno 42Sant’Andrea Hospital
via di Grottarossa 1035
v
via Carlo Fea 2
largo Cristina 
di Svezia, 24Main Campus 
(Città universitaria)
iazzale Aldo Moro 5
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 47The initial strategic guideline indicated 
by this document is contained in its title: the extension of the period to 2021. In fact, we believe that this is necessary – unless future decisions alter this – to cover the period between the end of the current Rector’s mandate and the beginning of a new one to ensure the continuity of the university’s strategic and operative actions and avoid any misalignment with performance cycle documents.
The university is committed to implement the new plan, 
consolidate the results obtained over recent years, and improve its performance, in continuity and coherently with the strategies by Sapienza and nationally. Moreover, with a view to perfection the integration and simplification of university procedures, the Strategic Plan 2016-2021 also represents the first milestone in a process of documentary harmonization that, once completed, will allow users to easily consult university documents and find all the information they require.
A further step in this direction will be to re-enforce 
the real and potential synergy between academic and administrative units, even in decentralized structures such as faculties and departments, to complete the process of integration envisaged by ANVUR.
The future begins at Sapienza.Afterword
Researcher, Museum of the Near East, Egypt and the Mediterranean“Ragno Blu” Building – Acquired and Renovated in 2016
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 48 49
^ Museum of Classic Art – One of 18 Sapienza Museums
^ MuSa Classic Orchestra ^ “Arcobaleno” Building on Circonvallazione Tiburtina – Renovated in 2016
v New Sapienza Merchandising Storev Dinosaur Exhibition (January – March 2015)
 v Maker Faire 2015 on the Sapienza Campus ^ Sapienza Literary Café^ Festival of Japanese Culture (November 20, 2015)
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 51Accreditation
The process through which a third party officially recognises that an organisation has the competences and tools to perform certain tasks.
Assessment (or evaluation)
It is based on the formulation of value 
judgements concerning an organisation or the activity of an individual, based on standard, explicit criteria.
AVA System
Periodic self-evaluation, evaluation and accreditation process performed by the Italian National Agency for University and Research (ANVUR) to introduce an initial accreditation system and periodic review of degree programmes and university offices; quality, efficiency and results assessment of universities; development of self-evaluation systems for quality and efficiency of education and research.
Benchmarking
Standardized process for measuring and comparing organisational processes and results with leading or best-in-class standards of organisations operating in the same sector to identify useful elements.
Bologna Process
In June 1999, a number of European Education Ministers met undersigned an agreement at the University of Bologna. The Bologna Process developed following this historical agreement aiming to reform Glossary
and harmonise higher education systems throughout Europe. The main objective of the process was to develop, by 2010, a European Higher Education Area (EHEA).
Crowdfunding
It is a form of grassroots micro-funding, usually conducted on-line, for specific projects. In the university context, crowdfunding is an innovative method for funding scientific research, start-ups, etc.
E-learning
Learning methodology that is based on the use of ICT for distance learning.
European Higher Education Area
It is the result of a series of ministry-level agreements reached between 1998 and 2010 on the European dimension of higher education policy as developed in the context of the Bologna Process.
Fund for Ordinary Funding 
(FFO - Fondo per il finanziamento ordinario)
This is the main source of funding for public universities in Italy. It funds university operation and activities, including expenses for personnel, ordinary maintenance and scientific research.
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 52 53Social Responsibility
This is a commitment that public and private sector organisations perform to contribute to sustainable development with the involvement of employees, their families, local communities and society to improve life quality.
Spin-off (university)
It refers to the development of a new entrepreneurial activity through the active involvement of human resources that belong to a given organisation to promote knowledge and professional experience. In the university context, this type of enterprise provides an important professional opportunity for graduates and researchers, as well as a tool for technology transfer that helps to promote university research knowledge on the market.
Stakeholder
Subjects with rights and/or interest that are directly involved in the activities of an organisation and can influence its decisions or be influenced by the decisions made by the organisation.
Strategic Objectives
Global medium and long-term objectives pursued by an organisation. They describe the results or final effects that an organisation seeks to accomplish.
Strategic Planning
Process that identifies objectives and means, tools and actions necessary to obtain the desired results in the medium/long term. This tools is often used to improve the global performance of organisations.SWOT AnalysisA tool developed by business strategy development that allows organisations to analyse environmental variables to develop an optima strategy to pursue organisational objectives. In particular, SWOT analyses allow organisations to evaluate internal elements in terms of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats.
Third Mission
This term includes a series of activities that involve university research and society. The first fundamental type is technology transfer related to evaluation, protection, marketing, and commercialization of technology developed through academic research and, more in general, the management of intellectual property. A second type concerns the production of public goods that improve the general level of well-being through cultural, social, educational and civil awareness-raising activities.
Transparency
A synonym of clarity, comprehensibility and simplicity, this term is also used to indicated aperture, reliability and communication. Administrations must orient all their procedures towards transparency, including open meetings, free access to financial information, free flow of information, etc.
Turnover (personnel)
The rate at which an organisation 
changes staff and increases/decreases human resources.Fund RaisingCollection of funds by non-profit organisations to increase resources for sustainable development and to pursue their mission. It may include initiatives with public and private bodies (cultural events, sponsors, social investments). Moreover, fundraising activities help re-enforce the social identity of non-profit organisations in terms of the reference community and other stakeholders.
Governance
Refers to the responsibilities and processes through which public and private organisations and their policies are implemented.
Information 
and Communication TechnologyIt refers to all activities related to the use of technology to exchange information. It is an essential resource for organisations to share qualitative data and information and efficiently manage relations with users, suppliers and other organisations.
Lifelong Learning
Permanent ongoing didactic activities at all levels of education and in all phases of life to keep abreast of new social and business needs both professionally and personally.
Mission
Permanent description of the context in which organisations operate, which provides a reference framework for relations with social interlocutors and established objectives. The mission spells out the raison d’etre of organisations and the aims that will be pursued.Outcome
Impact of final result of an activity. 
In assessing organisational performance, 
this term is used to indicate the result 
of an activity or process from the point 
of view of the user or, more in general, 
the stakeholder.
Performance
The result obtained by individuals, groups, organisations, processes or activities.
Performance Assessment (or evaluation)
It is an integral part of organisational management. The assessment system includes the evaluation of the personnel who contribute to the global assessment of the administration by aggregating individual performance at various levels
Quality
The term is used to indicate the ability to transform, increase or add value to a given good or service (quality as added value) or to reach results above the reference standard (quality as excellence). Specifically, it refers to the degree to which education and research system characteristics satisfy given requisites (i.e., vicinity to pre-established objectives and obtained results). Quality assurance in the public sector promotes the value of services and products for all stakeholders.
Resources
These include work, capital, infrastructures, technology and knowledge that an administration employs to pursue its mission.
Strategic Plan 2016-2021 Sapienza University of Rome 54Values
These are the fundamental principles underlying the behaviour of an organisation and of its personnel. The values reflect and strengthen the organisation’s identity. The respect of these values is fundamental to pursue an organisation’s mission and vision.
Vision
It indicates the final goal of an organisation,  
the direction in which it intends to head and how it aims to be perceived. 
This Strategic Plan has been developed 
by the Sapienza Strategic Support 
and Communications Area (Communications Office 
and Strategic Support and Planning Office)
www.uniroma1.it


