www.ksau-hs.edu.saKSAU-HS
2022-2027STRATEGIC PLAN


KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN
2022 - 2027
SEPTEMBER, 2022
FIRST EDITION

CUSTODIAN OF THE TWO HOLY MOSQUES 
KING SALMAN BIN ABDULAZIZ AL SAUD
5

H.R.H. CROWN PRINCE
MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN AL SAUD
PRIME MINISTER OF SAUDI ARABIA
7

MINISTER OF NATIONAL GUARD
H.R.H PRINCE ABDULLAH BIN BANDAR AL SAUD
9

MINISTER OF EDUCATION 
H.E. YOUSEF AL-BENYAN
11
Prepared by 
Hussam Alammar 
Johara Gramish  
Bandar Al-Sadawn 
Faris Alshahwan 
Latefa Al-Daghri
Afaf Alsufyani 
Fahad Al Husayni
Supervised by  
Prof. Abdulmalik Al Katheri
Reviewed by 
Prof. Mohamed Al Moamary 
Approved by: 
University Council on June 29 Design and Layout   
Development and Quality Management Affairs 
Lama Alkahtani th2022

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202714
PRESIDENT’S ADDRESS
PROF. BANDAR AL-KNAWY
Since the establishment of King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences in 2005, the strategic plans guided the University 
for successful accomplishments of its goals, implementing the planned academic programs, and materialized in launching three 
modern University campuses in Riyadh, Jeddah, and Al-Ahsa, and achieving the full accreditation with the National Center for Academic 
Accreditation and Evaluation in 2017. The progressive growth of the University is demonstrated by national recognition of its position as 
a leading institute in health professions education and research. 
The new strategic plan (KSAU 2027) is developed to cover the period from 2022 to 2027 and is aligned with the goals of the                     
“Saudi Vision 2030” which reflects the vision of Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince the Prime 
Minister. This plan is also blessed with the support of His Royal Highness the Minister of National Guard and His Excellency the Minister 
of Education; making it a major opportunity to contribute to enhancing the quality of higher education in the country. 
KSAU 2027 is developed based on essential pillars of advanced health sciences education, innovative health sciences research, vital 
community partnership, sustainable autonomy, and organizational excellence. The plan is proudly developed by university faculty 
and staff with support from international consultants. It is developed to also be aligned with the new universities system. KSAU 2027 
strategic goals and initiatives will serve the enhancement of health sciences education, research, and community service. Moreover, it 
also contributes to the achievement of the University vision to be recognized and distinguished nationally and internationally.
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
15

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202716
STRATEGIC PLAN FOREWORD
PROF. MOHAMED S. AL-MOAMARY
VICE PRESIDENT, DEVELOPMENT AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT
The previous University strategic plans have well-served the University’s needs by providing a road map for progressive growth, 
development, and leadership in health profession education and research. Based on the high achievement rates in the previous strategic 
plans, and with its resilience to overcome COVID-19 pandemic, the new strategic plan is designed to consolidate the current situation 
and guide success for future University achievements. The University Strategic Plan (KSAU 2027) is aligned with the Saudi Vision 2030 
which aims to increase the quality of knowledge and education to facilitate career development of health care professionals. 
KSAU 2027 is also designed to be executed through initiatives that serve health sciences education, research, and community 
partnership programs in alignment with the “Saudi vision 2030”. The University’s new mission is updated based on the recent national 
trends in the field of higher education and the new universities bylaws that aims to expanding the education of Saudi citizens and 
graduating distinguished health practitioners. The new University vision is updated based on the previous strategic plans achievements 
and phrased to reflect University ambition to be recognized nationally and internationally in health profession education and research.
KSAU 2027 sets the course for the next five years and provides the means to monitor progress and accomplishments aiming toward 
global leadership in health professions education. KSAU 2027 focuses on five strategic goals and the corresponding initiatives, related 
performance management tools, and management of future risk. The strategic plan also reinforces the University’s commitment to 
excellence in health sciences education, scientific research, and community partnership by applying the institutional excellence criteria 
and attaining the financial sustainability.
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
17

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202718
OUR VISION
A globally leading health sciences University ambitiously serving the nation’s health
OUR MISSION
The University aims to graduate distinguished healthcare professionals, pursue synergistic advanced 
health sciences education and innovative research, and promote effective community partnership
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
19

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202720
CONTENTS
Definitions
Scope of the document
Establishment 
Milestones
University Campuses
University in Numbers
NCAAA Accreditation
Strategic Plan Process
Vision, Mission, and Core Values
Main Strategic Pillars
Strategic Goals
Alignment with the Saudi Vision 2030
Executive Operational Plan
Performance Management
Dissemination Plan23
25
26
28
30
33
35
36
38
39
40
46
49
50
53
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
21

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202722
DEFINITIONS
FWCI
HOSPITALS
IQAS
IT
KAMC
KAIMRC
KPI
KSAU-HS
MNG-HA
NCAAA 
PBL
QA
RESEARCH CENTER
SWOT
THE UNIVERSITY
THEField-Weighted Citation Impact
All hospitals and medical cities under the Ministry of National Guard – Health Affairs
Internal Quality Assurance System
Information Technology
King Abdulaziz Medical City
King Abdullah International Medical Research Center
Key Performance Indicator
King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences
Ministry of National Guard – Health Affairs
National Center for Academic Accreditation and Evaluation
Problem-Based Learning
Quality Assurance 
Refers to KAIMRC
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats analysis
Refers to KSAU-HS 
Times Higher Education
KEYWORDS
Strategic planning, higher education, efficiency in sectors (academic, research, human resources, environmental, societal, financial, 
administrative, and technical), KSAU-HS, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
23

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202724
Alignment of the 
institutional KPIs 
with the Strategic 
PlanAlignment 
of the Strategic 
Plan with the 
National Strategic 
direction conveyed 
in the Saudi Vision 
2030Main strategic 
pillars, strategic 
goals, and branch 
goals to achieve 
them Revised vision, 
mission, and core 
valuesThe 
situational 
analysis of the 
University with 
areas of strengths, 
weaknesses, 
opportunities, 
and threatsSCOPE OF THE DOCUMENT
This document aims to present the Strategic Plan for the period 2022-2027 that includes:
A guide for the 
development 
of the executive 
operational, 
dissemination, and 
risk management 
plans
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
25

ESTABLISHMENT
Though KSAU-HS was formally established in March 2005, its 
roots extend back to the mid-1980s with the establishment of 
postgraduate training programs in the Ministry of National Guard 
Health Affairs (MNG-HA) hospitals in Riyadh and Jeddah. The 
strong foundation of academia over the following two decades led 
to the milestone of establishing the first undergraduate program 
for nursing in 2001. With the transformation of the Academic 
Affairs for Postgraduate Training Programs into the Deanship 
of Postgraduate Studies, the foundation of College of Medicine-
Riyadh in 2004 and the College of Nursing-Riyadh, the nucleus of the University was founded and named “King Abdulaziz Medical 
City (KAMC) Academy for Health Sciences” as another milestone. 
Subsequently, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah 
bin Abdulaziz announced on the 5th of Safar 1426H (March 16, 
2005) the foundation of KSAU-HS with the main campus in 
Riyadh and two branches in Jeddah and Al-Ahsa. In 2006, research 
activities under MNG-HA stimulated the creation of a new entity; 
“King Abdullah International Medical Research Center” (KAIMRC).  
This led to the foundation of a comprehensive academic medical 
system that provides patient care, research, and education.26
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
Over three years (2005-2008), this authentic transformation was translated into a 
University Strategic Plan that was formally launched and laid down the cornerstone 
of three modern campuses by Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah 
bin Abdulaziz on May 2008. Much has been accomplished since then which is 
strengthened by moving to the three campuses in 2013 and the access to excellent 
clinical education and training sites at MNG-HA medical cities. The University 
has undertaken an extensive building effort that has produced a superb clinical 
simulation center, a state-of-the-art physical activities center, first-class teaching 
and research facilities, and on-campus faculty housing. University colleges and 
programs have implemented contemporary curricula designed to meet the best 
educational standards through collaborative work with leading top international 
Universities. Highly qualified multicultural faculty and staff have been recruited, and 
an ambitious scholarship program was launched since the University’s inception. 
This includes the fields of English teaching, Health Informatics, Basic Sciences and 
Clinical Sciences where faculty are educated and trained at world-class academic 
medical centers around the world. The affiliation and partnership between the 
University and the Research Center materialized into collaborative health-related 
research activities that are nationally relevant and internationally significant. Over a 
decade, the University founded robust community services for the health sector in 
the form of continuing medical education and support for scientific societies; and 
to the society by reaching to the community with health promotion activities that 
enhance the health of the society. 
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
27

MILESTONES28
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
• Creation of Residency 
programs in major 
medical specialties at 
MNGHA Hospitals
• Creation of College of 
Nursing – Riyadh • Creation of College of 
Medicine – Riyadh
• Renaming Academic Affairs, 
MNG-HA as the Deanship of 
Postgraduate studies• Creation of King Abdulaziz 
Medical City (KAMC) 
Academy for Health Sciences• Creation of King Abdullah 
International Medical 
Research Center
• Creation of King Saud bin 
Abdulaziz University for 
Health Sciences2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2001 1985
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
29
• Inauguration of the corner 
stone of the three University 
campuses in Riyadh, Jeddah, 
and Al-Ahsa• Launching the First 
University Strategic Plan
2017 2016 2013 2008 2008
• Launching the three 
University campuses• Launching the Second 
University Strategic Plan
• Achieving the Full Institutional 
Accreditation with the NCAAA2022• Launching the Third 
University Strategic Plan
UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES
Space
Research Center
Skills Center
Affiliated HospitalsColleges
DeanshipsRIYADH CAMPUS
• 2,236,102 m2 
• King Abdullah International Medical Research Center - Riyadh
• Clinical Skills Simulation Center - Riyadh 
• King Abdulaziz Medical City - Riyadh• College of Medicine - Riyadh
• College of Nursing - Riyadh
• College of Dentistry
• College of Pharmacy
• College of Applied Medical Sciences - Riyadh
• College of Public Health and Health Informatics
• College of Sciences and Health Professions
• Deanship of Postgraduate Education
• Deanship of Quality Management
• Deanship of Development
• Deanship of Student Affairs
• Deanship of Admission and Registration30
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
Space
SpaceDeanships
DeanshipsResearch Center
Skills Center
Research CenterAffiliated Hospitals
Affiliated HospitalsCollegesCollegesJEDDAH CAMPUS
AL AHSA CAMPUS• 475,000 m2
• 642,000 m2• Deanship of Postgraduate Education – Jeddah branch
• Deanship of Postgraduate Education – Al Ahsa• King Abdullah International Medical Research Center – Jeddah branch
• Clinical Skills Simulation Center - Jeddah
• King Abdullah International Medical Research Center – Al Ahsa branch• King Abdulaziz Medical City – Jeddah
• Prince Mohammed bin Abdulaziz Hospital – Al Madinah
• King Abdulaziz Hospital – Al Ahsa
• Imam Abdulrahman Al Faisal Hospital - Dammam• College of Nursing – Al Ahsa
• College of Applied Medical Sciences – Al Ahsa• College of Medicine - Jeddah
• College of Nursing - Jeddah
• College of Applied Medical Sciences - Jeddah
31
3.855
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202732
UNIVERSITY IN NUMBERS   ACADEMIC YEAR 2021 / 2022
Number of registered graduate 
students (Masters, P.h.D and 
Post Doctoral fellows)Total
14.533Female
)52.9%( 7.690Male
)47.1%( 6.843Number of registered 
bachelor students
)73.5%( 10.678 3.855 )26.5%(
Ratio of Students to 
Teaching Staff
9 : 1Number of faculty 
members
1.608
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
33

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202734
NCAAA  ACCREDITATION
35

STRATEGIC PLAN PROCESS
The process to revise this Strategic Plan started with ensuring the required inputs are prepared and available to be utilized during 
the strategic planning project, these inputs included:
• National needs and strategic direction as planned in the Saudi Vision 2030
• Strategic Plan 2016-2022 progress report that is used to identify specific areas that need to be carried over to the new Strategic Plan
• KSAU-HS Mission survey results that is distributed to university faculty, staff, and students to gauge their satisfactions and awareness 
of the Mission statement
• Stakeholders Ideas and Suggestions from survey results that is distributed to university faculty, staff, and students allowing them to 
participate in shaping the University’s future
36
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
The draft of the Strategic Plan received multiple revision and review by University academic leaders. Final version presented to 
the University Standing Committee for Strategic Planning and Performance Management on 08/03/2022. Upon the approval 
of University President of the recommendation of the committee, the final Strategic Plan presented and received approval in 
its meeting in March 2022.Once these documents were prepared, the project team invited participants to be involved in the following activities:
• Situational Analysis:  This was divided into sessions that involved different levels and campuses of the University and external stake -
holders, where they were asked to share their thoughts about what they perceived to be the University’s strengths, weaknesses, op -
portunities, and threats. These sessions were moderated by an international independent expert in strategic planning.
• Focus group discussions:  This involved the Strategic Planning core group, in addition to the respective University leaders, staff, or 
faculty members based on the scheduled topic for discussion. The objectives of these sessions are to:
• Review the expired Strategic Plan
• Review the pervious Vision and Mission statements and update them if needed
• Review Core Values and update them if needed
• Develop new Strategic Goals based on the 5 main major strategic pillars: advanced health sciences education, innovative health 
sciences research, vital community partnership, sustainable autonomy, and organizational excellence
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
37

VISION, MISSION, AND CORE VALUES
KSAU-HS mission, vision and core values are prepared with the consideration of Islamic values, societal perspectives, Saudi Vision 2030, 
new national universities system, accreditation requirements, and stakeholders’ input. These statements aim toward ambitious and 
balanced transformation to address the national requirements while also keeping in mind the global dimension. Based on the above, 
the mission, vision, and core values were formulated:
VISION  
A globally leading health sciences University ambitiously serving the nation’s health.
MISSION
The University aims to graduate distinguished healthcare professionals, pursue synergistic advanced health sciences education and 
innovative research, and promote effective community partnership.
CORE VALUES
• Ethical behavior:  honesty, respect, fairness, and compassion.            
• Teamwork:  effective collaboration and communication.                      
• Accountability:  fulfilling duty.                                                                        • Transparency:  integrity and clarity.
• Excellence:  quality performance, innovation and creativity.
• Social Responsibility:  act in the best interest of the nation’s 
health 
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202738
MAIN STRATEGIC PILLARS
Inspired by the pillars articulated by the Saudi Vision 2030 the following five strategic pillars form the foundation of the 
University’s Strategic Goals:
MAIN STRATEGIC PILLARS
1 2 3 4 5
Advanced 
Health 
Sciences 
EducationVital 
Community 
PartnershipInnovative 
Health 
Sciences 
ResearchSustainable 
Autonomy Organizational 
Excellence
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
39

STRATEGIC GOALS
PILLAR 1: ADVANCED HEALTH SCIENCES EDUCATION
Strategic Goal 1 : Develop academic programs and graduate distinguished profes -
sionals in healthcare and health sciences-related disciplines
This strategic goal will be achieved by the following branch goals:
1. Develop new graduate programs that advance health sciences and leverage 
University expertise
2. Empower Health Professions Education and enable the University leadership 
and partnership nationally and internationally
3. Foster distance learning in existing and new programs based on the experiences 
gained during COVID-19 pandemic
4. Make the most of Clinical Skills Simulation facilities to support health sciences 
education and training
5. Promote constant improvement of the internal quality assurance system (IQAS) 
and maintain academic accreditation40
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
PILLAR 2: INNOVATIVE HEALTH SCIENCES RESEARCH
Strategic Goal 2 : Enhance excellence in health sciences research benefiting from 
the integration among the University, Research Center, and health system
This strategic goal will be achieved by the following branch goals:
1. Align the research center’s mission and strategies with the university for 
greater synergy 
2. Expand capacity to grow research funds
3. Promote creativity, innovation, and strategic collaboration in research
4. Ensure involvement and collaboration of researchers, faculty, and students 
5. Enhance research quality and publication in high impact journals
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
41

PILLAR 3: VITAL COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP
Strategic Goal 3 : Create vibrant on-campus quality of life, and develop sustainable 
community partnerships
This strategic goal will be achieved by the following branch goals:
1. Promote University brand and enhance University identity 
2. Ensure the creation of sustainable strategic community partnerships and 
community service activities 
3. Develop a strategy to engage and support University alumni 
4. Improve the vibrancy of campus life 
5. Develop a system that promotes the creation of Arabic health-related content 42
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
PILLAR 4: SUSTAINABLE AUTONOMY
Strategic Goal 4 : Pursue a sustainable financial foundation for the university that 
supports its bright future
This strategic goal will be achieved by the following branch goals:
1. Promote investment and endowments in the University
2. Promote revenue-generating activites
3. Foster entrepreneurship 
4. Develop sustainable innovative revenue-generating educational, 
recreational, and continuous professional development programs
5. Transform the University into a sustainable green campus
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
43

PILLAR 5: ORGANIZATIONAL EXCELLENCE 
Strategic Goal 5 : Optimize operational processes to achieve organizational excel -
lence
This strategic goal will be achieved by the following branch goals:
1. Ensure that the University has lean and efficient organizational structures
2. Optimize University information technology services
3. Align university risk management activities 
4. Enhance University operational processes 44
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202745

ALIGNMENT WITH THE SAUDI VISION 2030
A THRIVING ECONOMY: REWARDING OPPORTUNITIES
The skills and competencies of our children are one of the most important and cherished assets. To make the most of their potential, we 
will build a culture that rewards determination, provides opportunities for all and helps everyone acquire the necessary skills to achieve 
their personal goals. To this end, we will reinforce the ability of our economy to generate diverse job opportunities and institute a new 
paradigm in attracting global talents and qualifications.46

Close the gap between the 
outputs of higher education 
and the requirements of the job 
market.
Train students and facilitating 
their transition between 
different educational pathways.
Have at least five Saudi 
universities among the top 200 
universities in international 
rankings.
Help our students achieve 
results above international 
averages in global education 
indicators.KSAU-HS STRATEGIC GOALS VISION 2030 GOALS
• Strategic Goal 1 : Develop academic programs and graduate distinguished professionals in healthcare 
and health sciences-related disciplines
• Strategic Goal 3 : Create vibrant on-campus quality of life, and develop sustainable community 
partnerships
• Strategic Goal 1 : Develop academic programs and graduate distinguished professionals in healthcare 
and health sciences-related disciplines
• Strategic Goal 4 : Pursue a sustainable financial foundation for the university that supports its bright 
future
• Strategic Goal 2 : Enhance excellence in health sciences research benefiting from 
the integration among the University, Research Center, and health system
• Strategic Goal 5 : Optimize operational processes to achieve organizational 
excellence
• Strategic Goal 1 : Develop academic programs and graduate distinguished professionals in healthcare 
and health sciences-related disciplines
• Strategic Goal 2 : Enhance excellence in health sciences research benefiting from the integration 
among the University, Research Center, and health system
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
47

KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 202748
EXECUTIVE OPERATIONAL PLAN
To ensure execution of the Strategic Plan, the five Strategic goals will be cascaded into  branch goals, each will also be cascaded into 
one or more initiatives. For each initiative, the following items will be defined:
These items will be used to establish responsibility and accountability for the execution of initiatives, which will ultimately be reflected 
on the Strategic Plan as a whole.
In addition to the University Strategic Plan, University Colleges, Deanships, and Departments will work to update their respective 
Strategic Plans to support their developmental plans, and be in complete alignment with the University vision.• Initiative Owner
• Key Performance Indicator (KPI)
• KPI Targets
• Action Plans 
• Risk management plan
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
49

The Strategic Plan is reviewed on an ongoing basis to determine progress made on the University’s goals, projects, and initiatives. 
Periodic reports will be provided to update the University Council, major committees, campus community and other stakeholders 
on the Strategic Plan’s progress.
The performance management tools will include: 
• Specific key performance indicators (KPIs) and benchmarks for initiatives related to University strategic and branch goals
• Periodic objective-based evaluation of the university mission and strategic goals
• Alignment of University strategic goals with NCAAA standards and KPIs, as shown on the following table:PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
STRATEGIC GOAL KPI NAME KPI  DESCRIPTION
Develop academic programs and graduate 
distinguished professionals in healthcare 
and health sciences-related disciplinesTHE Teaching indicators Close the gap between
Proportion of accredited programs
Students’ evaluation of quality of learning 
experience in the programs
Performance of University graduates in 
Saudi License Examinations50
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
STRATEGIC GOAL KPI NAME KPI  DESCRIPTION
Enhance excellence 
in health sciences 
research benefiting 
from the integration 
amon the University, 
Research Center, and 
health systemTHE Research Indicators •  Research reputation
•  Research income to academic staff
THE Citations Indicators •  Citation impact
Percentage of publications of 
faculty members•  Percentage of full-time faculty members who published at least one 
research during the year to total faculty members in the institution
Citations rate in refereed journals 
per faculty member•  The average number of citations in refereed journals from published 
research per faculty member in the institution
THE International Outlook •  International co-authorship / collaboration
Create vibrant on-
campus quality of 
life, and develop 
sustainable 
community 
partnershipsRate of community programs and 
initiatives •  Average community programs and intiatives provided by each 
academic program during the 
Student’s satisfaction with the 
offered services •  Average of student’s satisfaction rate with the various services 
offered by the institution
Create vibrant on-
campus quality of 
life, and develop 
sustainable 
community 
partnershipsTHE Teaching Indicators •  Institutional income to academic staff
THE Industy income Indicators •  How much research income an institution earns from industry 
Percentage of self-income of the  
institution•  Percentage of self-income of the institution to the total income of 
the institution
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
51

STRATEGIC GOAL KPI NAME KPI  DESCRIPTION
Optimize operational 
processes to achive 
organizational 
excellenceTotal operating funds allocated to 
provision of student services •  Proportion of total operating funds allocated to provision of student 
services
Employees Retention Ratio •  Employees Retention Ratio52
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
This Stragegic Plan aims toward reaching the internal and external stakeholders by mass media to communicate the vision, mission, 
core values, and strategic goals. The intended partners for this plan are University Relation and Media, University leaders, and students  
Club.
The Strategic Plan is communicated by:
• Publishing the Strategic Plan in booklets, brochures, and the University websites
• Displaying the Strategic Plan in prominent locations in the three campuses
• Displaying the Strategic Plan in the University magazine
• Displaying the Strategic Plan in the University magazine
• Emailing university citizens through Message Center
• Advertising on social media DISSEMINATION PLAN
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
53



KING SAUD BIN ABDULAZIZ UNIVERSITY FOR HEALTH SCIENCES
P.O. Box 3660 Riyadh 11481, Saudi Arabia  
Web: www.ksau-hs.edu.sa56
KSAU-HS STRATEGIC PLAN 
2022 - 2027
