Our University
Our Future:
ConnectedThe University  
of Bath Strategy
2021-26
Our University is an energetic connected 
community, committed to excellence in 
research and education, embracing the 
opportunities of today’s world and addressing 
its challenges. Knowledge and experience are 
connected in the search for understanding and 
solutions; study and practice are connected 
through high-value placements and strategic 
partnerships to prepare excellent students 
for future success; and students and staff are 
connected in an inclusive, collegial, ambitious 
learning community. To belong at Bath is to be 
connected, and together to build for our future.
2     The University of Bath Strategy
Introduction 4
Strategy and pillars 8
Values and how we work 10
Driving excellence in education 12
Driving high-impact research 16
Fostering an outstanding 
and inclusive community 20
Enhancing strategic partnerships 24
Measuring our success 26
Steps to achieving our ambitions 27
Our University Our Future: Connected     3
The University of Bath has evolved 
considerably since 1966, when 
it was established to advance 
learning and knowledge by 
teaching and research, particularly 
in science and technology, and in 
close association with industry  
and commerce.
More than 50 years on, we are proud that the 
University has grown in both size and reputation, 
highly ranked in all three main national league tables. 
Awarded Gold in the first Teaching Excellence 
Framework, with an excellent track record on student 
experience and employability, we attract some of the 
best and brightest students in the world. Engagement 
with employers remains fundamental to ensuring 
that our students are particularly well prepared for 
future careers. Our reputation for applied research, 
with real-world impact, is prized by our partners and 
highlighted by the numerous prestigious awards 
won by our academic faculty. In the 2014 Research 
Excellence Framework, 87% of our submitted 
research was found to be world-leading  
or internationally excellent.As a ‘dual intensive’ University, we equally value  
both teaching and research as core strengths  
and these will continue to be at the heart of our 
strategy. Commitment to quality remains central to 
our institution.
Although much has changed since its establishment 
as Bath University of Technology, the vision of our 
founders remains as critical today as it was in 1966. 
At the outset the description of technology as “the 
point at which science intersects society” was 
used to frame the activities of the University. The 
empowering of a University community to draw on 
understandings of science and society to address 
the key challenges of our time remains as important 
as ever, whether to seize opportunities in advancing 
digital technologies or to tackle the threat of climate 
change, or to address health crises.
Through Our University, Our Future, a wide-ranging 
engagement exercise with our students, staff and 
alumni, we explored the meaning of our mission 
and our future potential. The feedback affirmed our 
founding principles, sense of community and current 
strengths, but surfaced a real desire to progress in 
response to a rapidly shifting external environment, 
and an appetite for greater partnership-working, and 
recognition, at national and international levels.Introduction
4     The University of Bath Strategy
 
Our Mission endures: to deliver 
world-class research and teaching, 
educating our students to become 
future leaders and innovators, and 
benefiting the wider population 
through our research, enterprise  
and influence.
    5
 
Our Vision is to be an outstanding 
and inclusive University community, 
characterised by excellence in 
education, research, and innovation, 
working in partnership with others for 
the advancement of knowledge, in 
support of the global common good. 
6     The University of Bath Strategy
Our University Our Future: Connected     7
Over the next five years we will 
become more agile in our response 
to the rapidly changing local, 
national and global environment, 
consolidating our strengths and 
advancing our activities in scale  
and impact. Building on our distinctive, nationally-leading  
position in the higher education sector, we will  
seek to advance our impact by:
• Growing our reputation for University education 
through internationally leading courses which 
are rigorous, relevant and pioneering and which 
attract highly achieving students from diverse 
backgrounds, enhanced by high-value placement 
and extracurricular opportunities to help students 
to take their ideas and passions to the next level
• Growing our research strength to drive research 
quality, achievement and impact at international levels
• Growing our identity as a strong learning 
community in which collective endeavour and  
a culture of care enable the flourishing of all
• Growing our strategic civic, corporate and 
international partnerships to allow us to fulfil  
our ambitious vision in education, research  
and enterprise
 
Thereby we will seek to enhance our global position 
within the top world-leading institutions. We will 
do this in ways which respect and support our 
community, our values, and our environment. University Strategy  
and supporting pillars
8     The University of Bath Strategy
In developing the University Strategy, we are taking 
into account the economic, political, societal and 
technological context and the uncertainties that 
we will continue to navigate. These include the 
impacts of the global pandemic and recovery 
in a post-Covid era, the changing relationship 
between the UK and the EU and evolving global 
trade and industry relationships, a transforming 
digital landscape and the need to respond to the 
imperatives of sustainability, diversity and inclusion. 
For Higher Education institutions, both the global 
and national landscape is rapidly changing, due 
in part to increased international competition 
and complexity, evolving policies in the UK, and 
pressures on university finances. The recent past 
has underlined the need for increased agility.
The Strategy expresses our 
ambitions across four key pillars:
Driving ex cellence 
in educatio nFostering an 
outstanding 
and inclusive 
communi ty
Enhancing 
strategic 
part nership sDriving high 
impact  researc h
Our University Our Future: Connected     9
Values are at the heart of our strategy 
for advancement, growth and impact, 
defining our characteristics as a 
community, namely:Our Values and  
how we work
Delivering quality and excellence, whilst being 
quick to listen and learn
Nurturing high aspirations, for the benefit of all
Aspiring to the highest standards of scientific, 
ethical and professional integrity, whilst supporting 
the freedom to challenge received wisdom
Fostering inclusion, equality, diversity and 
accessibility where the unique value of each 
individual is recognised as we build a community of 
trust and care by treating each other with respectSupporting a sustainable community and 
adopting best environmental practice
10     The University of Bath Strategy
Our Values must also inform our partnerships, 
whether these be in building purposeful international 
collaborations, fulfilling our civic roles, supporting and 
educating our students, or advancing our research.
We are proud of our contributions and track record 
in education and research, as evidenced by the 
recognition of the many achievements of our University 
community. We are also proud to have centres 
of expertise which recognise the importance of 
addressing national needs in education and research 
for the common good, in collaboration with partners. 
We appreciate the benefits of diversity within 
our community and will seek to ensure that our 
community is one in which all can feel they belong. 
Whilst our roots are in Bath, our reach is global. At our 
heart we are an inclusive, international community. We 
believe that global exchange enhances knowledge 
and enriches experience, and we will continue to seek 
to attract and welcome warmly students and staff 
from across the world. Our status as a University of 
Sanctuary underlines our commitment to supporting 
students from refugee and asylum backgrounds. 
Our new strategy seeks to advance our international 
contributions through our excellence in education and 
research, and we will seek to build stronger, strategic 
partnerships to make this possible.
The University is aware of its responsibility to 
contribute to the global good. We have identified 
three areas of research strength and focus: 
Sustainability; Health & Wellbeing; and Digital, all 
at the heart of the greatest global challenges and 
opportunities of our time.We recognise that the climate emergency requires 
action internationally and locally. The University of 
Bath was the first UK university to have a Carbon 
Management Plan and has already implemented 
successful strategies to reduce carbon emissions, 
and cut energy and water use. Our research has led 
to yet greater reductions in carbon emissions through 
its widespread impact. In recognition of the global 
climate emergency, the University adopted a Climate 
Action Framework in 2020. Our Framework seeks not 
only to reduce our direct and indirect emissions but 
also to commit to conducting high-impact research 
for global benefit and to educate students to become 
future leaders and innovators in the field. 
Closer to home, we understand the importance of 
place and value greatly being part of the beautiful 
and inventive City of Bath, a UNESCO World Heritage 
Site and our home for more than 50 years. We aspire 
to bring not only economic benefit to the local area, 
but also to share our knowledge and skills, working 
in partnership with other local organisations and 
residents whilst being ready to listen and learn. We 
recognise our actions have local impacts, and want 
our city to be proud of our University and the talented, 
caring students who contribute so much, and go on 
to champion Bath throughout their lives. 
Our new strategy will see the University further 
develop its civic role and partnerships, building on our 
contributions to the economic, cultural, environmental 
and social richness of the city and region.
Whilst our roots are in 
Bath, our reach is global. 
11
Bath builds from strong foundations 
on teaching and student experience, 
receiving a Gold award in the 
Teaching Excellence Framework 
(TEF) in 2017, and with a strong 
pedigree in student achievement 
and experience, sector-leading 
placement provision and excellent 
employability outcomes. Over the 
next five years, we will prioritise 
maintaining our strong performance 
in student satisfaction and 
employability, at both undergraduate 
and postgraduate levels, giving this 
international currency.Our courses are designed to inspire students of 
the highest ability irrespective of background to 
gain understanding and skills so that they succeed 
in the future. We are proud to have amongst our 
community outstanding and expert faculty, teaching 
highly relevant content which reflects the most recent 
research advances and references the most  
pressing global issues. 
Our placements are a strength. This provision must 
be nurtured and developed to maintain the ‘Bath 
advantage’ of employability for our graduates. We 
aim to enhance the educational benefit of placement 
provision, nationally and internationally, through 
closer integration with courses of study and external 
partners, and online education. We will seek to break 
down barriers for students in gaining employment, 
so that as many as possible can receive the richest 
possible learning experience both within the 
University and outside. Beyond placements and study 
exchange, we will also explore wider employability 
initiatives that bring real value to our students.Driving excellence 
in education 
12     The University of Bath Strategy
Our University Our Future: Connected     13
We are inspired by the opportunities 
emerging technology brings both 
to enhance existing provision and 
the ability to reach new and diverse 
audiences with learning and teaching. 
Awarded Gold in the 
Government’s Teaching 
Excellence Framework
14     The University of Bath Strategy
Despite our strengths, with fierce international 
competition and innovation, we must ensure we stay 
at the forefront of high-quality education, student 
experience and employability. These actions are 
key to ensure that we attract the best and brightest 
students from a diverse range of backgrounds. We 
aim to be recognised as providing rigorous and 
relevant courses for high achieving students so that 
they can have the skills, ability and confidence to 
become successful leaders and thrive throughout 
their lives. We will develop our curricula at course, 
subject, faculty and University level adopting 
national and international best practice. 
To achieve this, we are committed to developing 
relevant and innovative courses, incorporating  
new fields. We will seek to bring together disciplines 
to reflect the evolution of subjects, new educational 
needs and market opportunities, to allow students  
to prepare themselves in the best possible way  
for the future.
With this in mind, we must focus on developing 
internationally leading courses at pace, with new 
teaching delivery options and course pathways.  
Recognising the global nature of education, we will 
seek new international partnerships for the best 
possible academic experience.
As a close-knit campus community, with a strong 
sporting tradition and many excellent facilities, 
including our library services, we greatly value 
in-person learning and the holistic experience of 
a campus-based degree. Our students and staff 
identify our location in the vibrant, beautiful city of 
Bath as an important factor enabling them to thrive. 
This combined experience enables the University to 
provide students with the opportunities to be well 
taught, well qualified, and experienced, rounded, 
and grounded by the time they graduate. We are also inspired by the opportunities emerging 
technology brings both to enhance existing provision 
and the ability to reach new and diverse audiences 
with learning and teaching. We will build on our 
existing online provision and will develop sustainable 
online learning resources to provide quality distance 
learning and enrich and enhance the efficient 
delivery of courses, leveraging our recognised  
areas of expertise. 
In building online courses, we will recognise and 
reflect both our expertise in delivering high-quality 
student experience, and the high value placed on 
learning in a community. We will seek to create new 
learning communities, in line with our core strategic 
vision, reflecting the importance of peer-to-peer 
learning and experience, and personal tutoring. In this 
way, we will encourage life-long learning and widen 
accessibility both internationally and nationally. 
Our community prizes highly the holistic education 
and experience we provide, working closely with our 
excellent students’ union. We will continually strive 
to enhance facilities and infrastructure to support  
an excellent educational and wider student 
experience at Bath.
To innovate to stay at the forefront of providing 
a high quality, holistic education by:
• Strategically developing our curricula at  
course, subject, faculty and University level
• Enhancing the educational benefit of  
placement provision
• Widening accessibility both internationally  
and nationally
• Developing sustainable online learning 
resources to provide quality distance learning 
courses, and enrich and enhance the efficient 
delivery of established courses in a manner 
that encourages life-long learning
• Forging international alliances with relevant and 
mutually beneficial expertise 
• Ensuring that our support practice in terms of 
advice, care and community-building for our 
diverse student population is at the forefront  
of the sector
• Ensuring that personnel, facilities and 
infrastructure policies and provision support 
fully the educational strategy
  15
Since the 2014 Research  
Excellence Framework (REF),  
where 87% of our research in this 
exercise was found to be world-
leading or internationally excellent, 
there has been even wider and 
deeper engagement in research 
activities at the University. Our 
respected research community  
has been fortified by appointments 
at every level, recruiting nationally 
and globally, and including 
numerous new and outstanding 
early career researchers.The University of Bath has a strong track record in 
interdisciplinary research, the campus having been 
designed to foster collaboration across our Faculties 
and School. This has been further strengthened by 
the significant impact generated by our Institutes 
and Centres, including the Institute for Advanced 
Automotive Propulsion Systems, Institute for Policy 
Research, Institute for Mathematical Innovation, 
Centre for Sustainable and Circular Technologies and 
Milner Centre for Evolution, amongst others.
Our new strategy affirms the importance of curiosity-
driven research and will grow research strength to 
drive research quality, achievement and impact. 
Many of our researchers are already leading in their 
disciplines; others are ready to further develop their 
profiles and their international reputations. We will 
work with our Faculties and School to grow capacity 
and academic leadership for further success. 
This will include developing clearer strategies for 
research at University, faculty and departmental level, 
more precise benchmarking and goals, strategic 
appointments, key development of underpinning 
research facilities, attracting and supporting talented 
doctoral students and enhanced enabling of 
interdisciplinary work.Driving high-impact 
research  
16     The University of Bath Strategy
We have identified three primary 
institutional research themes 
for collaborative working across 
disciplines: Sustainability;  
Health & Wellbeing; and Digital.
Our University Our Future: Connected     17
18     The University of Bath Strategy
To strengthen further our research impact, sharpen 
our focus and increase our influence, we have 
identified three primary institutional research 
themes for collaborative working across disciplines: 
Sustainability; Health & Wellbeing; and Digital. These 
existing strengths not only respond to international 
imperatives such as the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals, but also enable us to align 
tangibly with regional priorities, the UK’s national 
priorities and the UK Government’s Research & 
Development Roadmap.
Key to achieving our ambition is the generation of 
increased research income to enable us to innovate, 
explore new areas and invest in new research 
infrastructure. We will encourage the development of 
larger research initiatives to provide better structure 
to our research profile so that we can use our 
interdisciplinary research base to tackle the most 
profound and challenging problems.Our Royal Charter sets out that the University 
should have a ‘close association with industry and 
commerce’ and our new strategy is an opportunity to 
renew emphasis on that part of our mission. We will 
focus on increasing our research impact and target 
engagement intelligently with business, Government 
and civil society.
Overall, we will actively engage locally, regionally, 
nationally and internationally including through 
partnerships and through public engagement, to 
ensure that our operating policies, our infrastructure 
and our support for research help to build towards our 
strategic objectives, serving to strengthen our culture 
of research integrity, and enabling our researchers to 
deliver to their full potential.
To grow research power to drive research quality, 
achievement and impact by:
• Encouraging the development of larger research initiatives, 
to provide better structure to our research profile
• Developing clearer strategies for research at University, 
faculty and departmental level
• Encouraging greater research alliances to enhance  
research quality
• Actively engaging locally, regionally, nationally and 
internationally to help to build towards our strategic 
objectives, serving to strengthen our culture of research 
integrity, and enabling our researchers to deliver their  
full potential 
     19
The overwhelming pride in our 
strong sense of community 
here at Bath shone through 
in our engagement exercise, 
Our University, Our Future. We 
heard, loud and clear, the pride 
in our supportive and close-knit 
environment. We also understand 
how much students and staff value 
our University operating on a human 
scale, where our modest size, far 
from constraining our ambition, 
facilitates collaboration and the 
spark of new ideas. We will seek 
to foster and support that sense of 
community, our culture of care, and 
the value it brings throughout our 
new strategy.For our staff, we understand that creating a thriving 
University community entails supporting individual 
success as well as collective endeavour. We 
will provide the structures and mechanisms that 
encourage staff to develop their potential through 
support, training, and mentoring. Our systems of 
recognition, reward and development will support 
individuals to achieve personal success, whilst 
contributing to our strategic direction.
We want to build on our successes in student 
experience. To do this we will actively encourage 
a culture of care and foster a sense of community 
across our practices. We understand the 
importance of the wider student experience for 
all our students. Our exceptional Sports Training 
Village and the sporting opportunities available 
to our students at all levels will continue to be 
a fundamental part of our offer. We will seek to 
ensure students get the most out of their time at 
Bath, gaining valuable knowledge, transferable 
skills and intercultural competencies so they leave 
us well rounded and with a competitive edge.  
We respect student voice and seek to work in 
partnership with our students’ union, valuing 
constructive dialogue.Fostering an outstanding 
and inclusive community 
20     The University of Bath Strategy
Creating a thriving University 
community entails supporting 
individual success as well as  
collective endeavour.
Our University Our Future: Connected     21
We will encourage a culture that 
celebrates multiple approaches 
and points of view.
22     The University of Bath Strategy
Our much-valued alumni network will be reinvigorated 
and we will grow the important role that alumni and 
other stakeholders play within the University, and 
indeed the role of the University for them. As life-long 
learning grows in importance, we will seek increasing 
opportunities for alumni to contribute to and benefit 
from the University throughout their lives.
The wellbeing of both our students and staff is 
of fundamental importance. We have a range of 
innovative approaches to welcoming and supporting 
students throughout their time at Bath. Over the 
lifetime of our new strategy, we will continue to invest 
in this area; our ambition is that advice, care and 
community-building practice for our diverse student 
population is at the forefront of the sector. 
For our staff community, we have made real strides 
in the provision of support, training and resources to 
support staff wellbeing and we will continue our focus 
in this area over the next five years.Reflecting our communities at all levels of our 
organisation is important and increasing diversity at 
the University is a priority. Over the lifetime of our new 
strategy, we will actively attract and welcome the best 
and brightest talent and potential from a diverse range 
of backgrounds, both in the recruitment of staff and in 
our widening participation initiatives to welcome more 
students from underrepresented groups.
Inclusion is a core value at the University of Bath.  
An intentional and integrated approach to diversity 
and inclusion will help prepare students for 
collaborative work and citizenship in a globally 
connected society. Through our Equality, Diversity 
and Inclusion strategy, we will encourage a culture 
that celebrates multiple approaches and points 
of view. We will grow our network of people, 
programmes, initiatives, and tools to help: employees 
grow and manage their careers; managers and 
leaders to build inclusive environments; and students 
to reach their full potential. We will foster both a 
top-down and grassroots approach, giving us the 
freedom to address the broadest set of initiatives.
Our University Our Future: Connected     23
To live our mission and achieve our 
vision fully, our community must 
be outward-facing. An external 
focus will help us forge new 
collaborations, benefit from different 
perspectives and stay connected 
to a diverse range of communities 
locally, nationally and globally.We will become more internationally leading 
whilst staying locally relevant by building stronger 
and more focussed national and international 
partnerships. This will help us to achieve what we 
couldn’t do alone, and enable the knowledge and 
skills gained to be shared with our local community 
for mutual benefit. 
Our ambition will be to encourage greater research 
alliances to enhance research quality, and greater 
proactivity in proposing new collaborative initiatives at 
local, national and international levels. We will renew 
our focus on creating strategic partnerships with 
business and industry, growing support for innovation 
and commercial activities within the University.
We will forge international educational alliances 
with relevant and mutually beneficial expertise, to 
improve our own provision and the profile of our 
courses internationally.
We will extend our philanthropic activities to 
embrace new partnerships and initiatives. 
Closer to home, our new strategy will see the 
University further develop its civic role and partnerships 
in Bath and the wider region, by engaging in continuing 
education, economic development activities, 
innovation and community engagement.Enhancing strategic  
partnerships  
24     The University of Bath Strategy
We will become more internationally 
leading whilst staying locally relevant 
by building stronger and more 
focussed national and international 
partnerships. 
Our University Our Future: Connected     25
The following key performance 
indicators will enable us to monitor 
how successfully we are delivering 
our objectives:Student profile  – we will monitor the diversity  
of our student population as a measure of the 
success of our access and participation initiatives.
Student satisfaction – we will monitor  
National Student Survey (NSS) overall student 
satisfaction scores as a measure of success in 
delivering a high-quality student experience.
Student continuation rates – we will  
monitor student continuation rates as a measure  
of how supportive our learning environment is.
Graduate outcomes – we will monitor 
graduate level employment as a measure of our 
responsiveness to the changing needs of the 
employment market and the relevance of our 
programmes.
Research income  – we will monitor our total 
research income as a measure of the relevance, 
sustainability and peer recognition of our research.
Research students – we will monitor the 
percentage of full-time doctoral students graduating 
within four years as a measure of our success in 
nurturing new research talent and the vibrancy of our 
research culture.
Research outputs  – we will monitor the  
number and percentage of highly cited research 
papers as a measure of both the vibrancy and  
quality of our research.
Research partnerships – we will monitor  
our research partnerships as a measure of our 
success in working in partnership, particularly with 
industry and commerce.
Carbon emissions – we will monitor our carbon 
emissions as a measure of our progress towards the 
targets set out in our Climate Action Framework.Measuring 
our success  
26     The University of Bath Strategy
Our University Our Future: Connected     27Our strategy was formed during a global pandemic, 
with perhaps greater uncertainty about the future 
than many of us have experienced in our lifetimes. 
Therefore, our strategy provides a high-level 
framework setting out what we want to achieve, by 
what means and in what timeframe, with the flexibility 
to adapt to a rapidly changing world.
The implementation of the University Strategy will 
be achieved via our ongoing operational planning 
processes, a range of specific action plans and a 
programme of institutional initiatives.  Implementation 
will be overseen by the University Executive Board 
and progress towards achieving our targets will be 
reported to our governing body, Council, for scrutiny.The success of the University of Bath, more than ever 
before, will depend on our ability not only to create 
new ideas, build on our strengths and address, head 
on, those areas that we need to improve, but to 
collaborate, plan and work together to achieve them 
with a collective sense of purpose and shared values. 
One thing which does not constrain us is the strength 
of our collective ambition, to reach out and connect at 
every level, in order to achieve greater positive impact 
locally and globally.Steps to achieving our 
strategic ambitions 

www.bath.ac.uk
