OCTOBER 2022
Acknowledgement of Country 
RMIT University acknowledges the people of the Woi wurrung  
and Boon wurrung language groups of the eastern Kulin Nation on 
whose unceded lands we conduct the business of the University.
RMIT University respectfully acknowledges their Ancestors and Elders, 
past and present. RMIT also acknowledges the Traditional Custodians, 
their Ancestors and Elders of the lands and waters across Australia  
where we conduct our business.
vision
To be a leading university of impact in the 
Asia Pacific region, using technology, design 
and enterprise to achieve an inclusive and 
sustainable future.
mission
To empower people and communities to adapt 
and thrive across generations with education, 
research and civic engagement that are applied, 
inclusive and impactful.
ambition
To lead internationally in four key areas: emerging 
technologies, smart and sustainable cities, social 
innovation and regional collaboration. P eggy O’Neal, AO 
Chancellor
RMIT is an international  
university of technology,  
design and enterprise. Chancellor & Vice-Chancellor’s 
Foreword
In complex times, the actions we all take  
during the decade ahead will shape community  
life for many years to come. It is a responsibility  
and an opportunity we accept. 
To contribute successfully, we must ensure that the  
power of technology, ingenuity and scientific expertise  
is applied wisely, to achieve inclusion and sustainability. 
RMIT is a unique institution, deeply grounded in the 
urban communities where we are based and committed 
to respectful relationships with traditional custodians 
of those lands.  
Since 1887 we have grown, generation after generation, 
using an ever-changing mix of technology, design and 
enterprise to empower people to live and work with  
a ‘skilled hand and cultivated mind’. 
Today, in the Asia Pacific region and across the world,  
RMIT connects hundreds of thousands of people  
and offers pathways to greater opportunity and 
understanding. 
The last few years have highlighted the importance 
of skills and networks to enable people to withstand 
pressure and to adapt to changing circumstances.  Education, research and partnership are vital to  
this resilience, and RMIT’s role in creating knowledge, 
growing skills and building relationships has never  
been more important. 
This strategy sets out the values, goals and actions  
which RMIT will pursue as we collaborate and partner  
with the diverse communities we serve. 
We look forward to working with you. 
Peggy O’Neal, AO  
Chancellor  
Professor Alec Cameron
Vice-Chancellor & President  
3
RMIT was founded in 1887 on the unceded lands 
of the Boon wurrung and Woi wurrung language 
groups of the eastern Kulin Nation. 
As a collective and as individuals, we commit  
to respectful ways of working and understanding 
that acknowledge the experiences, history 
and knowledge of Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander peoples. 
We actively strengthen relationships between 
Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples for  
the benefit of all Australians and the communities 
in which RMIT operates.
RMIT students and staff number around 100,000. 
Our wider community of alumni, staff and 
partners reaches around one million people, 
and is an important ecosystem of relationships 
connected across sectors and geographies.RMIT’s purpose
RMIT is an international university  
of technology, design and enterprise.
Our mission is to empower people and 
communities to adapt and thrive across 
generations, with education, research 
and civic engagement that are applied, 
inclusive and impactful.We aim to be a leading university of impact in the 
Asia Pacific region, equipping all RMIT learners 
with the skills, knowledge and connections to 
succeed through life, work and community. 
Our presence is urban and international. RMIT 
has built Vietnam’s leading international university, 
and developed programs in Singapore and across 
the Asia Pacific. RMIT in Europe is an innovative 
hub for research, partnership and student 
experience, focused on sustainable cities and 
digital technologies.
For the formative and challenging decade ahead, 
our ambition is to serve our communities with 
knowledge and skills applied for an inclusive and 
sustainable future. We aim to lead in four key areas: 
emerging technologies, smart and sustainable 
cities, social innovation and regional collaboration. Our motto, ‘a skilled hand,  
a cultivated mind’ reflects RMIT’s 
commitment to improving the  
lives and futures of people in  
a fast-changing society.  
Applying knowledge with skill, imagination 
and integrity is at the core of all our work in 
education, research and civic engagement. 
Working directly with industry across sectors  
is woven into every part of RMIT and we lead  
the way in digital and vocational learning.
4
passion  
We take pride in RMIT and we are deeply 
committed to extending and deepening our 
positive impact in the world. We empower  
our community to share knowledge and 
expertise and solve important problems. inclusion
We work to grow opportunity and participation. 
We welcome students and staff from diverse 
backgrounds, embrace differences and treat 
people with dignity and respect. We ensure RMIT 
is an accessible and open institution, dedicated to 
serving the needs of the whole community. courage
We speak out on issues of importance to  
our community and the world. We respect the 
rights of others and recognise our obligations  
to the health of the planet and the welfare of  
all people. We advocate strongly for positive 
change that benefits all. 
integrity
We are honest and fair and hold ourselves 
to the highest ethical standards. We uphold 
transparency and accountability and use 
expertise and evidence to make decisions. 
We strive to uphold RMIT’s obligations 
and reputation.impact  
We pursue positive and lasting impact in 
everything we do, through the application of 
shared knowledge to meet the fast-changing 
needs of society. We identify challenges and 
create opportunities through collaborative 
design, knowledge exchange, work-based 
learning, critical problem-solving and 
translation of research.imagination
We value innovation, adaptability and creativity 
as vital ingredients for a thriving economy, 
environment and society. We are committed  
to growing them with new ideas, shared 
knowledge and continuous learning.
5
The years ahead are uncertain and volatile,  
and we know that individuals and communities  
will need knowledge, skills and collaboration  
to adapt and thrive in life and work.
How we will respond 
RMIT exists to serve the interests  
of the whole community.  
A foundation of RMIT’s approach is that education, 
research and engagement work together to achieve 
this mission. We can influence the future for the 
better because we are in the community, we are 
part of the economy, we are located in major The challenge ahead
Over the next decade, we will 
live and work through great and 
complex challenges of climate, 
security, prosperity, inequality  
and wellbeing. 
RMIT’s students and graduates face pervasive 
change, with fast-changing job markets and 
uncertain paths to career and life success. People & potential: unlocking 
the power of RMIT’s community
Families and communities have faced real  
strain in surviving the pandemic, absorbing  
the pressures of a global health emergency  
and caring for each other.
New technologies and working methods  
create new possibilities to be effective  
and efficient, but they can add complexity,  
frustration and uncertainty to the workings  
of an already complex institution. RMIT, like  
many others, has undergone major changes  
of staffing, organisation and technology to  
address the immediate pressures and adapt  
to a changed landscape.
Employers and industries are seeking ways  
to recover, innovate, decarbonise and adapt  
to disruptions to their supply chains, markets,  
access to workers and operating systems. 
The realities of climate change, including  
the impacts of floods, drought, fire and global 
heating are widespread and demand practical, 
creative and meaningful responses.Individuals and communities 
will need knowledge, skills  
and collaboration to adapt  
and thrive in life and work.
6
key locations, foster a caring, collaborative 
and inclusive culture; and develop a diverse 
and resilient workforce who can use the 
opportunities, support, systems and tools 
of RMIT to build fulfilling careers where 
they are recognised and rewarded for their 
knowledge and impact.
These are outlined in six adaptive priorities,  
which will guide RMIT’s operational planning, 
action and leadership in implementing the 
strategy. How we define and measure  
RMIT’s progress is addressed through the 
strategic directions, goals and actions in this 
strategy, and the ways they are implemented  
over the next three, six and nine years.RMIT’s commitment
Building on 2015’s Ready for Life 
and Work strategy and taking insight 
and experience from across RMIT’s 
community, this strategy aims to 
forge an institution fit for RMIT’s 
purpose in this crucial decade. 
We are ready and able to serve the interests  
of the whole community and contribute to  
a more sustainable and inclusive future.
In this strategy, RMIT commits to real and 
demonstrable action that will advance 
sustainability across our operations and international cities, and we help to connect the 
complex environments that will shape the quality 
and sustainability of life for future generations.
Our people work across many sectors and 
disciplines, enabling them to build unique 
learning ecosystems: self-sustaining networks 
of educators, researchers, knowledgeable staff, 
industry and community partners who work 
together to create shared knowledge and impact. 
In developing this strategy, RMIT invited our 
community to contribute through a lively, open 
conversation about the future, RMIT’s strengths, 
challenges and what we can achieve over time. 
Through this process, it became clearer  
how we can develop something even more  
distinctive and powerful, by building learning  
ecosystems and ‘living labs’ to engage many  
people in working and learning together,  
sharing knowledge and information, and creating 
common infrastructure, both physical and  
virtual, to support them.We help to connect the 
complex environments that 
will shape future generations.
7
DIRECTION 3  
Serving our communities 
Sharing responsibility as an active part of civil 
society, building trust and creating shared 
benefit for the whole community in all  
the places and networks where we operate,  
virtual and physical.
Acknowledging the histories, knowledge, 
culture and sovereignty of Aboriginal and Torres 
Strait Islander peoples, and working with them 
to achieve success across RMIT’s business. 
Working with partners across our region to 
champion an inclusive and sustainable society.   DIRECTION 2  
Research & innovation  
for impact
Creating, developing and applying knowledge  
to create benefit for society and the environment, 
by deepening transdisciplinary understanding, 
tackling complex challenges and developing  
new ventures and networks.   
Preparing researchers and innovators for wide-
ranging, impactful careers that contribute to the 
community by translating insight and enabling 
technologies into new solutions and systems.DIRECTION 1   
Learning through  
life & work 
Enhancing life and work through stimulating,  
high-quality, educational experiences and 
pathways, connected across RMIT’s distinctive, 
open learning ecosystem, powered by expert 
educators who challenge and inspire. 
Learning is active, authentic and applied,  
delivered through a holistic blend of on  
campus, online and work-based learning.The Strategy  The strategy articulates three strategic directions for 2031, reflecting 
our mission and role, and the goals and actions that will achieve 
positive impact, given RMIT’s presence, strengths and values.
Delivering the strategy
These three directions are interlocking functions that  
strengthen the synergies between learning, teaching,  
research and community service, facilitating a path for 
coordinated activity and collaboration that deliberately  
cuts across the organisational structures of RMIT.Under these directions are four strategic goals for 2031, 
supported by actions and ways of working that will be 
implemented and evaluated over three horizons of three  
years each. These goals and actions will be delivered using  
six Adaptive Priorities as guidelines for implementation.With agency to test, learn and adapt over time, the strategy’s 
progress will be evaluated through a reporting and outcomes 
framework, maintained through RMIT’s system of planning,  
data analysis and organisational learning. 
8
.Smart & 
Sustainable Cities
Social 
InnovationRegional 
CollaborationEmerging 
Technologies
Research &
innovation
for impact
Serving our 
communitiesDIRECTION
DIRECTIONDIRECTIONGOAL
GOAL
GOAL
GOALLearning 
through 
life & work
Build a coherent, 
connected lifelong 
learning system 
Be a leading university of 
impact in the Asia Paciﬁc Extend RMIT’s dynamic 
research and innovation system 
Grow civic 
partnership at scaleRMIT
community
Open, di verse and co llabor ative Caring cultureResilient workforce Continuous learning
Integrated environmentsSimpler systems
Leadership capabilityADAPTIVE PRIORITIES
9
This has equipped generations 
of RMIT learners to excel in their 
chosen occupations and contribute 
meaningfully to their communities. 
Today, an RMIT education expands opportunities 
through imaginative, technology-enhanced 
learning to support a broad range of learners 
to succeed throughout their lives and careers.  
We now offer a wealth of pathways, through 
vocational and degree-based education, future 
skills courses with industry, online education, 
international networks and work-based learning.
In the decade ahead, many more people need  
to be ready for a changing world of work, and  
to continue learning throughout their careers.  
As well as being useful for future careers, this 
learning should be reflective, collaborative,  Learning through 
life & work  
RMIT’s commitment to engagement with 
industry and technological education was 
clear from its earliest days. Our applied, 
experiential approach has always integrated 
practical and team-based learning with 
conceptual and technical knowledge.ethically grounded and applied. It requires 
understanding oneself and others, creating 
new value in challenging situations, 
sharing responsibility and reconciling 
conflicts and dilemmas.
An RMIT education will empower all RMIT 
learners to be expert, connected, adaptive, 
digitally adept, critically engaged, ethical 
global citizens. We commit to growing and 
empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander students in preparation for successful 
professional careers and vocations.
Building on our founding commitment, RMIT  
will provide purposeful learning through life  
and work to support students wherever they  
are in their journey.DIRECTION 1   
10

GOAL 1  
Build a coherent, connected 
lifelong learning system 
RMIT’s distinctive position as an institution 
offering high quality education programs 
including degrees, diplomas, international,  
online, work-based and short, intensive  
courses, is a great strength for the decade ahead. 
Our goal is to develop and connect these  
wide-ranging offerings into a coherent 
ecosystem that can be accessed, navigated  
and enriched by the whole RMIT community. 
We will do this through four actions:
1.1   Embed active, authentic and applied 
learning as RMIT’s signature pedagogy
1.2   Scale a transdisciplinary curriculum 
architecture shaped by RMIT’s values  
and expertise
1.3   Build inclusive support and experiences 
for all learning pathways
1.4   Support RMIT educators to challenge 
and inspireRMIT Online
RMIT Online (RMITO) is a market-leading provider of purely 
online education, ranging from postgraduate degrees to 
leading-edge future industry skills. RMITO has enrolled over 
30,000 students and built future skills courses in partnership 
with industry for in-demand capabilities like digital health, 
blockchain, SWIFT coding, cyber security and many more.CASE STUDY
1111
in curriculum, work-based learning  
and enterprise projects
• Opportunities for students to learn 
Indigenous knowledges and their application 
in community life
• Opportunities for learners to contribute to 
a more sustainable world and to the United 
Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals
• Develop innovative assessment options 
appropriate for lifelong learning
• Embed aspirational and robust quality 
standards in all educational experiences
• New pedagogical models: programs designed 
to push boundaries with creative inquiry, 
majors and minor modules connected to and 
aligned with precinct-based, cluster-based, 
and research centre-based projects
ACTION 1.2  
Scale a transdisciplinary curriculum 
architecture shaped by RMIT’s values  
and expertise
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT’s curriculum helps learners to combine 
deep knowledge and technical skill with practical 
application and make connections across 
disciplines, networks and locations. 
It will be delivered through an effective mix  
of online, on-campus and work-based learning  
to support different learner profiles.    Active learning, immersive industry and enterprise 
experiences and authentic assessments are integral 
to learning for every student and every program.  
RMIT learning goes beyond the formal curriculum. 
It connects students with peers and experts, who 
support their personal, professional and emotional 
development through structured mentoring, 
coaching and cultural, creative and social activities.
How might this be achieved?
• Embed authentic, active and applied learning 
and assessment across all programs and 
educational experiences
• Deliver an effective blend of on-campus, 
online and work-based learning
• An industry-partnered learning framework  
to connect relevant opportunities to industry ACTION 1.1  
Embed active, authentic and applied 
learning as RMIT’s signature pedagogy
What will this look like in practice?
Learners choose RMIT in order to bring 
their purpose and ambition to life through 
applied, collaborative, technology-enhanced 
learning experiences. They are challenged to 
be enterprising, creative and critical thinkers, 
proactive in their learning and ethical in their 
contributions to community. 
Collaborating on industry projects and 
challenges in teams, studios, labs, simulations 
and workshops with diverse professionals and 
specialists, using techniques and tools from 
different domains, is a defining characteristic  
of an RMIT education. 
SHAPE studio
The SHAPE studio is an elective for students 
involving multidisciplinary collaboration, design 
thinking and implementation strategies for 
current, real-world built environment projects. 
It is a platform for students, staff, researchers 
and industry professionals to deliver innovative 
learning and teaching initiatives which centre 
around interdisciplinary engagement, industry 
collaboration and project-based learning. 
CASE STUDY
12
learners to transition into and across  
the learning ecosystem, including between 
modes and geographies.  
RMIT maintains clear standards of entry 
achievement, and is tireless in removing barriers, 
encouraging equitable student participation and 
success and strengthening our community. 
Qualifications align with industry standards  
and occupational pathways and encourage 
more people to join in upskilling and reskilling. 
RMIT supports learners to move through the 
world of work; helping them to change careers, 
employers or occupation, and pursue new 
opportunities. ACTION 1.3  
Build inclusive support and experiences 
for all learning pathways 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT provides the right pathways and learning 
opportunities for students to succeed throughout 
their life and work. These pathways are seamless, 
curated and help learners connect technical and 
occupational knowledge with community and 
personal life. 
RMIT welcomes learners from all backgrounds. 
We will work to understand individual needs and 
motivations, supporting their unique pathways for 
success. Flexible learning options will allow  Our curriculum architecture explicitly supports 
transdisciplinary collaboration and understanding 
by providing access to a range of courses, modules 
and learning opportunities from across the 
RMIT community.
As a result, students build current and cross-cutting 
knowledge, both technical and conceptual,  
work well across teams and disciplines, 
understand how to apply their many skills in 
different situations and articulate their strengths 
and value to potential employers. 
They build RMIT learning capabilities that underpin 
personal, academic and professional growth.
How might this be achieved?
• Continuous redesign, redevelopment  
and rolling delivery of curriculum architecture, 
advancing a learning ecosystem with 
modularised and stackable units of learning 
with innovative delivery options for learners 
and industry partners
• Develop learning pathways with applied  
and vocational education opportunities 
across the whole of RMIT
• Embed distinctive RMIT learner capabilities  
in all experiences and offeringsRMIT’s Simulated Health Ward 
RMIT’s Simulated Health Ward was developed by 
the School of Health and Biomedical Science and 
provides state-of-the-art facilities and capacity for 
future teaching in accredited nursing programs.  
The learning space includes 52 simulated hospital 
beds across five functional components: nursing labs, 
a high-fidelity simulation ward, simulation space for 
community and mental health case management, 
clinical prep student practice, training bathroom  
and technical support areas.CASE STUDY
13
They work together within and across disciplines, 
locations and modes, and share specialised skills  
in learning design, authentic assessment, and 
learning technologies.  
Their practice and innovation are recognised, 
rewarded and celebrated, and their career aspirations 
are supported.  They are empowered to embrace 
new methods and supported to curate and deliver 
outstanding educational experiences.
Excellent teaching is defined as achieving learning 
progression, focused on what the learner is doing 
and what sort of teaching and learning experiences 
and strategies will best achieve this outcome. 
How might this be achieved?
• Professional development and lifelong  
learning for RMIT educators
• Integrated communities of practice for teaching, 
learning, research and industry engagement
• Create structured spaces and opportunities  
for experimentation, innovation and impact  
in teaching practice
• Support educators to continue to build their 
capabilities aligned to RMIT’s pedagogy, build 
their professional practice (including innovation 
and impact), and build resilience and reflection 
and a culture of lifelong learning
• Align reward and recognition, performance 
expectations and promotion with  
educational strategy • Embedding vocational learning modules 
in relevant degree-based programs and 
occupational pathways
ACTION 1.4  
Support RMIT educators to challenge  
and inspire
What will this look like in practice?
Among RMIT educators are domain experts, skilled 
communicators with deep disciplinary knowledge; 
researchers and practitioners with lived expertise 
who encourage creativity and bring their insights, 
networks, knowledge and skills to the RMIT student 
learning experience. 
We amplify the synergies between discovery  
and teaching, so that research has currency in the 
higher education curriculum and connects learners 
with cutting edge inquiry taking place in RMIT’s 
research centres and impact focused networks. 
The demands on our educators will keep changing 
with those of our learners. Educators increasingly 
need to negotiate teaching in ways that reflect and 
draw on the diverse experiences and perspectives 
of our learners.
Excellent teaching focuses on learner experience 
and outcomes. RMIT educators are deeply 
committed to student progress and engaged  
with the scholarship of teaching and learning.  Our promise to learners is to provide an RMIT 
education that will help them find their path and 
equip them with the experiences, knowledge and 
skills they need for their individual circumstances 
and next steps.
How might this be achieved?
• Deliver a seamless learner experience across 
all of RMIT, reflecting integrated offerings, 
staff and learner mobility, integrated systems 
and aligned teaching periods  
• Design and implement curated and learner 
designed journeys that provide learner 
agency and foster integrated lifelong learning 
and careers transitions  
• Deliver a learning and support model that 
recognises diverse backgrounds, learning, 
career and life experiences  
• More inclusive and transparent admission 
policies with clear standards of achievement, 
proactive outreach across the community, and 
a positive, welcoming admissions experience
An RMIT education expands 
opportunities to support a broad 
range of learners to succeed 
throughout their lives and careers.
14
This specialism and collective breadth 
underpin our capacity for research excellence, 
collaboration and accelerated translation.  
Successful scholarship, research, innovation  
and impact with Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islanders and in relation to First Nations 
knowledge systems and communities, are  
part of our commitment to excellence.  
Taken together, these attributes generate 
a distinctive RMIT research and innovation 
system characterised by deep, transdisciplinary 
understanding, applied practice, and ethical 
partnership with industry and government.Today, RMIT continues with research 
and innovation whose benefits go 
beyond academia.  
We choose to excel in applying knowledge with 
purpose, tackle complex challenges and develop 
new technologies, systems, ventures and 
networks to create meaningful benefit for our 
society, economy and environment. 
Bringing different views and expertise together 
to develop practical, sustainable and ethical 
solutions to great challenges in society is what 
drives and defines the RMIT research ecosystem.
It is an active, living network, made up of thousands 
of people from different professions, disciplines 
and time zones, collaborating intentionally. Creating knowledge for application in the 
world is part of RMIT’s DNA. For more than  
a century we have led applied research, 
from testing of materials in the 1920s to 
fluid mechanics and radio communications 
in the 1940s and electronics in the 1970s. DIRECTION 2   
Research & innovation  
for impact  
15
GOAL 2  
Extend RMIT’s dynamic 
research and innovation 
system  
While conducting excellent research that creates 
value and benefit, RMIT will continue evolving 
an increasingly integrated, connected and 
accessible research and innovation ecosystem, 
designed to enable positive impact with our 
partners and community. 
Through highly developed, collaborative research 
practices, our goal is to work across boundaries  
to generate and share new ideas and knowledge   
to advance understanding. Through innovation  
we will utilise new and existing knowledge 
to benefit our partners and help them 
generate impact. 
We will do this through five actions:
2.1   Deepen research impact culture  
and capabilities 
2.2   Foster partnerships for sustained 
impact at scale 
2.3   Scale up applied, transdisciplinary research 
2.4   Grow impact-focused research training 
2.5   Accelerate research translation  
and commercialisationARC Centre of Excellence on 
Automated Decision-Making  
and Society (ADM+S)
The ARC Centre of Excellence on Automated Decision-
Making and Society (ADM+S) is a cross-disciplinary, national 
research centre, which aims to create the knowledge and 
strategies necessary for responsible, ethical, and inclusive 
automated decision-making. The ADM+S Centre is hosted at RMIT with nodes located  
at eight other Australian universities, and partners around  
the world. It brings together universities, industry, government 
and the community to generate an integrated understanding 
of ADM; formulate world-leading policy and practice  
in responsible, ethical and inclusive ADM, enhance public 
understanding and inform public debate on ADM; and 
educate and train researchers and practitioners in this 
challenging new field.
16CASE STUDY
16
Centre for Cyber Security 
Research and Innovation (CCSRI)
RMIT’s Centre for Cyber Security Research 
and Innovation (CCSRI) is a multi-disciplinary 
research centre that brings researchers together 
from across the RMIT network to work with 
governments and industry to advance the 
organisational, human and technology aspects  
of cyber security. It plays an important role  
in understanding the impacts of technology  on the protection of civil society and contributes 
to policies for ensuring critical technologies 
are used to uphold and protect liberal and 
democratic values. 
ACTION 2.2  
Foster partnerships for  
sustained impact at scale 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT is a partner of choice with a unique value 
proposition across key sectors aligned with our 
values, strengths and reach. We lead in many 
areas, including emerging technologies, smart 
and sustainable cities, social innovation and 
regional collaboration. 
We are known for developing large scale 
programs of impactful research through major 
strategic partnerships including collaborations 
with government and industry. We have a 
reputation for following through with workable innovation system; through industry, across 
sectors, and across different tertiary entities.
How might this be achieved?
• Implement a platform for supporting 
management of RMIT’s physical research 
infrastructure
• Expand cloud based digital research 
infrastructure (computing and data storage) 
with enterprise provisioning model
• Establish operating model for research and 
translation infrastructure (physical and digital)
• Establish a strategic research and translation 
infrastructure fund
• Digital enablement to support research 
translation and impactACTION 2.1  
Deepen research impact  
culture and capabilities 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT has deep research excellence, a culture  
of impact and expert capabilities to benefit  
our partners and community.   
We consider the impact pathways, application and 
potential of our research aims from the outset.
The knowledge, perspectives, world views and 
lifeways of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
peoples are recognised and integrated with 
RMIT’s impact-driven approach to research 
and innovation.  
Our researchers and partners enjoy access to 
world class infrastructure to facilitate excellent, 
impact-focused research, collaboration and 
research translation. 
We make smart, strategic investments 
in our research talent development and 
recruitment, and across our physical and digital 
research infrastructure to optimise applied 
research with impact. 
RMIT builds integrated research systems and 
services for our national and international 
research and innovation ecosystems.   
We train, recognise and reward our researchers 
for impact-focused research and encourage 
them to have careers that move through the CASE STUDY
17
in the undergraduate curriculum as highly  
valued, distinctive learning specialties (e.g.,  
majors/minors) that provide RMIT graduates  
with immersive learning experiences and  
an employment edge.
How might this be achieved?
• Researcher capability uplift – engagement, 
transdisciplinary collaboration and thought 
leadership
• Concept development for large 
transdisciplinary high impact initiatives
• Smart integration of health, human and 
social service, science, technology, 
engineering and maths, design skill sets  
and expertise in industry projects
• Lead the development of national and 
international impact communities of practice
ACTION 2.4  
Grow impact-focused research training 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT is a leader in industry-engaged and impact-
focused research training. 
Our distinctive approach to collaborative applied 
research and innovation drives the design and 
delivery of our research training program.
We are an institution of choice for local and 
international research candidates because • Enhance researcher capability to engage  
in public debate and discourse
• Refresh of university policies to recognise 
impact through research and innovation
ACTION 2.3  
Scale up applied,  
transdisciplinary research 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT is a leader in transdisciplinary research at 
scale, enabling diversified pathways to impact. 
Our research centres and impact-focused 
networks and platforms drive engagement and 
collaboration to solve urgent complex problems 
and connect scholars, experts, practitioners and 
industry partners. 
Our researchers are part of a globally 
connected impact network, work effectively 
in transdisciplinary teams on industry projects, 
and lead communities of practice applying 
principles, methods, and tools across different 
knowledge domains.
RMIT’s Enabling Impact Platforms are exemplars 
in bringing together staff and students from 
different disciplines to harness resources and 
expertise to achieve high quality, relevant 
research outcomes. 
The transdisciplinary excellence of our research 
work is experienced by students  solutions for important challenges and can work 
quickly and flexibly to meet the needs of partners. 
Our partners value the high-quality training, 
expertise, insight and capabilities of our 
researchers and innovators working in their 
organisations, and benefit from their experience 
with, and exposure to, the RMIT impact culture. 
RMIT provides trusted, evidence-based strategic 
foresight. Our researchers are active in public  
debate and discourse, contribute to public  
policy, and are engaged for their thought  
leadership, trusted perspectives and insights  
on complex topics.
How might this be achieved?
• Lead the development of national and 
international impact initiatives
• Investment funding for large-scale industry 
sector initiatives
• Bid development, building value proposition 
at scale and program management and 
execution of large-scale bidsBringing different views and 
expertise together is what 
drives and defines the RMIT 
research ecosystem.
18
ACTION 2.5  
Accelerate research translation  
and commercialisation
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT is a recognised leader in accelerating the 
translation and commercialisation of research. 
RMIT is known for the scale of translation of 
intellectual and social assets from research and 
we exploit our IP portfolio to produce impactful 
and commercial outcomes, aligned with our 
values and strategic goals. 
We attract a broad range of investment sources 
due to our proven track record and applied, 
ethical innovation framework. 
Through early engagement with crucial industry 
partners and networks, RMIT helps to build 
the whole picture and create critical paths to 
accelerated research translation and impact 
across industry and enterprise ecosystems. 
How might this be achieved?
• Early-stage, pre-seed research  
translation fund
• Venture fund limited partner contributions
• Research translation fellowship scheme
• Extend and deepen professional support 
capability for research translation and 
commercialisationworkforce transformation and capability uplift 
across sectors.
How might this be achieved?
• Successful roll-out of the HDR curriculum 
from 2023
• Strong recruitment of high quality HDR 
candidates supported by investment in  
HDR scholarships
• Scaled up industry placements for  
HDR candidates
• Sustainable service model to support  
growth in research training including  
industry activitiesexcellent research training and support sets  
them up for success in diverse careers. 
We are a global partner of choice for 
collaborations with research training elements 
and organisations seeking quality Higher Degree 
by Research (HDR) placements. 
Our undergraduate learners have clear pathways 
and access to research training through 
curriculum-based exposure to, and participation 
in, research projects.
Our impact-focused research training at 
scale supports diverse careers for graduates, 
Industrial Digital Innovation Hub
RMIT, Siemens and Festo signed a strategic 
Memorandum of Understanding to explore major 
areas of cooperation to help drive workforce 
transformation for Industry 4.0 in the Australasian 
region. The agreement represents a new model 
of cross-sector partnership based on collaborative 
systems leadership at a scale never seen before 
in Australia and includes the establishment of the 
Industrial Digital Innovation Hub at RMIT. 
The Hub is managed out of the RMIT Advanced 
Manufacturing Precinct (AMP) and designed to enable digital innovation at scale in a collaborative 
effort across different cultures, disciplines, geographical 
locations and industry environments, linking RMIT in 
Australia with its Vietnam campuses. CASE STUDY
19
From generation to generation, RMIT has 
helped to reshape the urban settings where 
we operate, creating imaginative design, far-
sighted urban planning, philanthropic partnership 
and new industrial and community uses 
that extend and renew the economies and 
communities around us.
A healthy civil society creates trust, dialogue, 
mutual understanding and compromise between 
different citizens, interests and institutions. 
In this decade, as much as any other, it is critical 
for RMIT to serve the community by using civic 
partnership to advance social innovation, smart 
and sustainable cities and use our relationships 
and urban presence to increase the scale and 
benefit of these efforts, including across the  
Asia Pacific region.   What began in a single building on unceded 
Aboriginal land in 1887 is now a vital part of 
Melbourne’s city centre, and a linking part of 
an internationally significant knowledge and 
innovation district across the city’s north. 
What began on a brownfield site in Ho Chi Minh 
City in 2001 is now Vietnam’s leading international 
university, playing a vital and growing part in 
skilling the future workforce and supporting 
industry innovation.  
Since 2011, RMIT in Europe has become  
an innovative, widely respected player in  
Barcelona’s urban innovation district, forging  
new partnerships and approaches to sustainable 
cities and transformative technologies across  
our international network.  DIRECTION 3  
Serving our 
communities
Since its founding, RMIT has been an 
active and influential member of civil 
society, working to build trust and create 
shared benefit in the communities 
where we operate.  
This reflects our obligation to serve 
First Nations, Victorian, Australian 
and international communities  
and the public interest, to enrich 
cultural and community life and  
to offer programs and services  
to meet community aspirations.
20
GOAL 3  
Grow civic partnership  
at scale
RMIT will engage proactively in civic life as a 
responsible public institution that champions 
sustainability, inclusion and ethical innovation. 
In all aspects of RMIT business, our goal 
is to create positive impact and reciprocal 
relationships that extend benefit and 
opportunities to the communities we serve. 
Our purposeful approach to partnership will 
work closely together with Aboriginal and Torres 
Strait Islander communities to ensure genuine, 
respectful and impactful engagement. 
We will do this through four actions:
3.1   Advance sustainability
3.2   Develop new workforce solutions 
3.3   Mobilise RMIT’s alumni community 
3.4   Use key RMIT locations as platforms  
for common growthTrade Routes: First Nations 
Global Growth Program
Supported by Global Victoria and powered by RMIT Activator, 
Trade Routes brings together expert knowledge, practical 
experience and an extensive network of connections to 
deliver a program that works with First Nations entrepreneurs 
and businesses to build the foundations and capacity for 
international trade and global growth for each participating 
First Nations business. CASE STUDYCollaboratively designed alongside Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander business consultants, Trade Routes takes a pragmatic, 
results-focused approach to global market entry strategy. 
Every owned and operated First Nations business can  
explore the self-directed learning portal, which pairs with 
events designed to connect with other founders and mentors. 
The program provides a pathway to teach the world about 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture and what that 
means to Australia.
21
ACTION 3.2  
Develop new workforce solutions 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT works with government and industry 
partners to define capability needs and pressures 
in sectors facing high demand or disruption, 
such as cyber security, social care, human 
services, advanced manufacturing, building 
and construction, clean energy, transport 
and logistics. 
We design, test, and scale innovative education 
solutions including work-based learning 
pathways, short-form learning and professional 
development. Solutions are focused on 
future industry needs and supporting 
fulfilling, productive career pathways and 
skill development for a diverse range of 
workers and learners. 
We contribute to and influence public policy 
solutions and build collaborative networks  
and culture to tackle shared challenges. 
With our partner network, we prototype 
evidence-based solutions, share workforce  
data, grow leadership capability, and use  
applied innovation to scale solutions and 
collaboration across industries, service  
systems and supply chains.We continue to lead the sector on practical, 
innovative action and build distinct agendas, 
using the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
as a lens for progress in regional ecosystems, 
partnering to enhance the sustainable 
development, cultural and economic health  
of cities and communities where we operate.
RMIT leads in climate action and draws on  
the knowledge and understanding of Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander peoples and culture 
in addressing the devastating impacts of 
climate change. 
We take further practical steps to become  
carbon neutral and draw on our research 
capabilities and operational excellence to  
help local and international businesses, partners 
and communities transition to a low carbon  
future and adapt to climate risks.  
How might this be achieved?
• Our campuses are living labs, with applied 
sustainability projects which demonstrate the 
best of art, design, technology and enterprise 
for environmental and social innovation
• Reaching and maintaining organisational 
carbon neutrality and working with partners 
and communities to influence broader 
climate action
• Clearly evidence the social and 
environmental impacts and opportunities  
of our research, curriculum and partnershipsACTION 3.1  
Advance sustainability
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT leads among Australian universities  
in contributing to an inclusive, sustainable 
and resilient future for people and the planet, 
advancing economic health, social inclusion  
and environmental protection for the wellbeing 
of individuals, societies and ecosystems.  
RMIT’s commitment to advancing sustainability 
models a whole system approach, achieving 
institution-wide excellence by embedding 
sustainability principles and practices  
throughout learning and teaching, research  
and operational activities.
RMIT University aims to become a 
certified carbon neutral organisation 
by 2025, covering scope 1 (direct), 
scope 2 (indirect) and scope 3 
(upstream and downstream supply 
chain) emissions.Carbon Neutral
by 2025
22
of belonging and identity that enables   
successful learning, mutual support and  
a shared contribution to society. 
How might this be achieved?
• International alumni strategy  
and community engagement
• Open scholarship policy
• RMIT Learning Library 
• Curriculum Architecture 
• Strategic industry partnerships  
and networksThey are connected to RMIT’s digital community, 
work directly with talented students and graduates, 
contribute to discussion, campaigns and 
problem-solving, and facilitate career progression 
for RMIT students and graduates across our 
international networks.
Alumni access and contribute to RMIT’s Learning 
Library, an open infrastructure of learning content 
and materials supporting scholarship, impact, 
lifelong learning and project-based collaboration.
Like RMIT, this network is open, diverse and 
collaborative, underpinning a strong sense  How might this be achieved?
• Building applied, skills-based institutes  
and partnerships for workforce development  
at scale in key industry ecosystems
• Strengthening FutureSkills offerings, linked  
to RMIT credentials and learning library
• Scaling work-based learning and pathways 
and co-developing public policy solutions
• Growing industry networks and ecosystems 
to deliver workforce development
ACTION 3.3  
Mobilise RMIT’s alumni community 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT students and alumni are active contributors 
to RMIT’s community and learning ecosystem. 
They can access wide-ranging connections, 
opportunities and knowledge-based resources 
through an interactive, digitally enabled 
community that includes academics and 
industry partners.
RMIT alumni are valued and maintain enduring 
relationships in the RMIT community – staying 
across the issues and opportunities of the day, 
making philanthropic gifts and connections, 
sharing knowledge and contributing to solutions. 
They are active industry mentors, lifetime 
learners, and advisers to RMIT staff and students.Brunswick Design District (BDD)   
The Brunswick Design District (BDD) is  
a renowned creative partnership supporting 
businesses, start-ups, designers, artists, makers, 
musicians, venues and leading-edge learning. 
Since 1888, Brunswick has been home to a mix 
of industries and today BDD is a dynamic mix of 
creative industries and practitioners, music venues, 
galleries, cafés, bars, and a hub for design research 
and education. Building upon Brunswick’s creative 
heritage, BDD is a partnership of Merri-Bek City Council, RMIT and Creative Victoria to grow  
an internationally recognised hub for innovation, 
creativity and design, supporting local creative 
people and industries.CASE STUDY
23
• CBD North Masterplan: RMIT Social 
Innovation Precinct in Melbourne City North
• Vietnam location partnerships with 
government and industry
• Build on the success of the Brunswick 
Design District
• Collaborate with RMIT in Europe on 
sustainable cities and innovation districtsRMIT’s key locations connect with innovation 
hubs and centres to enhance innovation 
ecosystems. RMIT’s organisational practice 
and culture are used to create positive impact, 
through employment, procurement, gender 
equity, staff development and water and energy. 
How might this be achieved?
• Innovation District Partnerships  
in priority locationsACTION 3.4  
Use key RMIT locations as platforms  
for common growth
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT’s key city locations are at the heart of  
long-term urban renewal and development.
RMIT works with cities, governments, industry 
and community partners to develop shared 
visions and common frameworks for the future 
growth and vitality of our cities. We recognise  
the traditional landowners and celebrate First  
Nations peoples, cultures and contributions, 
along with relevant cultures and traditions  
in Europe and Asia.
Campus environments, physical and virtual,  
are permeable, interactive and welcoming  
to diverse communities, supporting wellbeing, 
safety and inclusion. They are testbeds and 
platforms for the skills, communities and industry 
partnerships of the future. They enable and 
connect active communities of lifelong  
learners, innovative researchers and partners.
We develop distinctive clusters of disciplines, 
industry networks and placemaking partnerships 
to realise their long-term potential.  We support 
RMIT people with digital systems and networked 
models of learning, teaching and working 
across our locations.RMIT Data Innovation Hub
The RMIT Data Innovation Hub actively supports 
collaboration between industry, academia and 
RMIT students; facilitating opportunities for work 
integrated learning (WIL) placements, projects  
and industry engagement.
For students, it’s an exemplary WIL experience that 
will prepare them for a successful career in data 
and analytics through practical bootcamps, industry 
mentoring, paid internships, on-the-job coaching 
and exciting projects. 
For industry, it’s an opportunity to help shape 
the future workforce and collaborate with RMIT 
academics and researchers on real world problems.CASE STUDY
24
GOAL 4  
Be a leading university of 
impact in the Asia Pacific 
 
RMIT will partner to create positive impact  
and address shared challenges and opportunities 
for the Asia Pacific region. 
With Vietnam operating as the heart of RMIT’s 
regional network, our goal is to partner with 
industry and government to create collaborative 
networks in Southeast Asia, and across the 
broader Asia Pacific to build partnerships 
focused on emerging technologies, smart 
and sustainable cities, social innovation and 
regional collaboration.
We will do this through four actions:
4.1   Position RMIT as Vietnam’s leading 
international university for Southeast Asia
4.2   Establish a network of industry-
connected centres across Southeast Asia 
4.3   Accelerate sustainable development 
in the Asia Pacific through inclusive 
partnership
4.4   Act as a front door to understand and 
engage with Southeast AsiaRMIT in Vietnam
Through over 20 years of pioneering partnership, RMIT  
in Vietnam is now Vietnam’s leading international university, 
with strategic locations in Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi, and 
Danang servicing over 10,500 students. 
Since 2003, RMIT in Vietnam has won the prestigious 
Golden Dragon Award six times, for excellence in 
education services, and has been recognised by the 
Government of Vietnam for its contribution to the  
nation’s social and economic development.CASE STUDYRMIT in Vietnam continues to play a vital role in skilling  
the future workforce of Vietnam and its region, and 
supporting industry innovation through partnership and 
collaboration with government and industry in digital 
transformation, Industry 4.0, sustainable development  
and creative industries.
25
and focus, they may be vibrant meeting 
places for students, alumni, research and 
industry partners. 
  
The centres will position RMIT as leaders in 
shaping the future of work and provide a platform 
to partner with industry on their workforce 
training needs, digital transformation and broader 
impact agendas.  
The strength lies in connections – each centre 
will build a deeper and more connected network 
for RMIT, linking across RMIT’s network from 
Melbourne, to Asia, to Europe. They will act 
as a gateway for local industry to international 
expertise, collaborative funding opportunities  
and cross-cultural alumni networks.   
RMIT’s partnerships and the physical space of the 
centres speak to our reputation as a university in 
and of Asia, working with cities and communities 
in a collaborative way to support digital 
transformation and sustainable development.   locations, including Melbourne and Europe,  
to develop solutions aligned with Southeast  
Asia’s sustainable development and technological 
transformation. 
How might this be achieved?  
• Invest in RMIT in Vietnam through world 
class facilities, programs, and partnerships
• Cultivate stronger research connections 
across RMIT in Vietnam and the RMIT Group, 
including RMIT in Europe, Singapore and 
RMIT’s Asia Innovation centres – to develop 
roadmaps for impactful, applied research 
focused on Southeast Asia
• Develop RMIT’s policy influence and thought 
leadership on issues and challenges that are 
critical for the region’s future
ACTION 4.2  
Establish a network of industry-
connected centres across Southeast Asia 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT’s reputation will continue to grow in 
Southeast Asia through establishing industry-
connected centres which are front doors to 
RMIT, located in the heart of cities, innovation 
precincts and key strategic locations.  
These centres will be dynamic and respond to 
the needs of the community or RMIT partners  
in a particular place. Depending on the location ACTION 4.1  
Position RMIT as Vietnam’s leading 
international university for Southeast Asia
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT is a prominent leader in technology, design 
and enterprise in Southeast Asia, for learners, 
researchers, industry and the community. 
We are at the forefront of innovation in workforce 
training, working to address shared challenges 
and opportunities for the region. 
RMIT in Vietnam is the leading international 
university for Southeast Asia’s digital 
transformation and sustainable development. 
RMIT partners with industry and government 
in Vietnam to address shared challenges and 
opportunities facing the region. 
RMIT in Vietnam’s impact and influence 
continues to grow as a multidisciplinary leader, 
innovating in learning and teaching, applied 
research and workforce transformation. 
This momentum is reflected in growing 
partnerships, community engagement, student 
numbers, program offerings and locations, 
securing RMIT’s long-term place and impact 
in the region. 
RMIT in Vietnam partners to deliver applied 
student experiences, workforce transformation 
and research outcomes. In addition, RMIT in 
Vietnam connects across our international RMIT will partner to address 
shared challenges and 
opportunities for the Asia 
Pacific region.“”
26
By convening key stakeholders to discuss critical 
issues and opportunities facing the region, we 
spark ongoing policy dialogue and contribute 
to more responsive public policy aligned to 
sustainable development agendas. 
RMIT connects our international locations and 
partners to the Asia Pacific region, creating 
collaborative networks for impact. We bring 
international expertise to local solutions and 
contribute to sustainable development priorities. institutions and a leader on inclusive trade  
and women’s economic empowerment. 
RMIT links applied education, research and 
engagement to international development 
priorities in the local communities 
where we operate.
We lead thought, practice, capacity building  
and partnership to shape a more sustainable 
shared future in the region. How might this be achieved? 
• Cultivate stronger networks of industry 
partners in key locations, testing needs  
and activating collaboration prior to  
centre development
• Building on the success of RMIT in Europe, 
beginning with a pilot centre in Vietnam  
and expanding to key strategic locations  
where RMIT has established partnerships such 
as Singapore, creating a deeper network of 
alumni in priority sectors and markets
• Create strong relationships between  
industry-connected centres and across 
RMIT’s research and lifelong learning systems
ACTION 4.3  
Accelerate sustainable development 
in the Asia Pacific through inclusive 
partnership
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT partnerships in the Asia Pacific are 
delivering positive impact around emerging 
technologies, smart and sustainable cities, social 
innovation and regional collaboration, creating 
enduring and aligned social impact in local 
communities where we operate.
RMIT is a trusted partner for sustainable 
development in the Asia Pacific region among 
governments, cities, industry and multilateral Bundoora
BrunswickBarcelonaHanoi
IndiaSing apor e
China
Hong KongRegional 
CollaborationSmart and
Sustai nable Cities 
Social 
InnovationEmerging 
TechnologiesRMIT 
Vietnam
RMIT  
Europe
RMIT communit y
Open, diverse and collaborative
Point Co ok
Melbourne Cit yHo Ch i Minh City
RMIT
AustraliaASIA
PACIFICEUROPESOUTH-EAST
ASIA
City North
27
• Long-term sustainability and growing 
collaboration between our key regional 
centres and hubs in Australia and across  
 the Asia Pacific
• Foster strong connections between  
RMIT’s innovation centres in Melbourne  
and our industry connected hubs and 
locations across Southeast Asia and  
our international networkOur Asia Trade and Innovation Hub is a gateway 
to our regional expertise and networks, deeply 
linked to key assets including the Asia Pacific 
Economic Cooperation (APEC) Study Centre  
and RMIT in Vietnam. 
Our Australia Vietnam Policy Institute (AVPI)  
is a strong and vibrant community supporting 
the growing bilateral relationship and strategic 
opportunities between Australia and Vietnam.
We have flagship partnerships with government 
and industry aligned to our regional focus 
on sustainable development and emerging 
technologies. We convene policy dialogue and 
drive thought leadership around the shared issues 
and opportunities facing Australia and the region. 
Our students gain unique opportunities to 
engage with Southeast Asia during their studies 
in Melbourne through our digitally connected 
innovation hubs and centres. Our alumni and 
partners have ongoing opportunities to deepen 
their connection with, and understanding of, 
Southeast Asia. 
How might this be achieved?
• Attract ideas, experts, talent and debate  
to RMIT campuses and networks
• Long-term partnerships with industry and 
government to build policy and leadership 
capability for regional prioritiesHow might this be achieved?
• International partnerships are focused  
and aligned to RMIT’s strategic priorities,  
with guiding principles
• Leadership focused on communities and 
markets, responsible for driving new impact 
partnerships for sustainable development
• Visible leadership and collaboration in the 
region, along with greater staff and student 
mobility, connected with Melbourne
• Active thought leadership in sustainable 
development, making our international 
expertise accessible to industry, government 
and community in the Asia Pacific region
ACTION 4.4  
Act as a front door to understand  
and engage with Southeast Asia
What will this look like in practice?
We influence Australia’s understanding and 
engagement with Southeast Asia. 
RMIT’s strong focus on impact in Southeast  
Asia positions the University as Australia’s front 
door for regional knowledge and engagement. 
Our flagship centres work with industry, 
government and community, providing 
collaborative platforms for applied research, 
engagement and understanding around 
Southeast Asia. RMIT University is a founding 
partner of the Australia Vietnam 
Policy Institute: Australia’s 
first policy institute focused 
on growing relationships and 
opportunities with Vietnam 
through bilateral engagement 
across a growing community of 
industry, government, education 
institutions and think tanks.
28
Successful technological adoption is 
underpinned by the RMIT-wide commitment  
to shared goals and practice. Without this  
shared practice, technology will always fall  
short of its promise to deliver faster, easier,  
and better for everyone. 
In the coming years, how we deploy RMIT’s 
world class digital platforms and technology 
must support a teaching, research and learning 
environment of excellent quality and education  
at an international standard and empower 
learners to succeed in their studies.
It must enable staff and educators to provide 
outstanding support, pursue academic 
endeavour, and deliver compelling learning RMIT’s culture is built on shared 
purpose, mutual respect and trust 
in people, whose capabilities, tools 
and practices are critical to RMIT’s 
success over the next decade.
Diversity is, and always will be, RMIT’s strength. 
We will work to attract and retain talented people 
who want to build careers, provide leadership 
and create opportunities at a university renowned 
for its impact in Australia, Asia and beyond.
In recent years, accelerated technology adoption 
has been essential to how we live, learn and 
work. Hybrid work is now the norm and digital 
tools are a basic requirement for working, 
learning and connecting. The needs and expectations of our 
learners, partners, and communities 
are rapidly changing, asking new 
questions of how RMIT operates  
and organises to achieve our goals.Working 
together  
29
Opportunities are proactively created for  
different voices and perspectives to be heard  
and respected. We ensure our students, staff  
and partners can build meaningful connections 
and belonging, within and beyond the university. 
ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 2  
Support a resilient workforce  
with fulfilling career pathways
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT staff enjoy fulfilling career pathways and 
opportunities to develop. They can build careers 
that can grow and adapt with the changing 
needs of the university, students and community. 
They can explore specialised, flexible careers  
in learning and teaching, research, engagement, 
leadership and professional services, where 
excellence and industry experience are rewarded 
and recognised. ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 1  
Foster a collaborative, caring, inclusive 
and innovative culture
What will this look like in practice?
We nurture a high-performance culture  
where our people are supported, recognised  
and rewarded for their positive impact and  
for practising RMIT’s values. 
At the heart of RMIT’s culture is the safety  
and wellbeing of students, staff and community.  
Trust, mutual respect, equity, transparency and 
high levels of personal integrity are embedded  
in the way we work together.
We cultivate diversity and inclusion, enabling  
the greatest range of viewpoints and talented 
people to develop. Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander peoples, their culture and knowledges 
are represented, understood and celebrated.
Our working environment inspires people  
to give their best every day and contribute 
with pride to RMIT’s successes. We encourage 
and celebrate innovation and collaboration, 
continuously adapting in response to our 
experience and the changes around us. 
RMIT learns from the expertise, innovation  
and observations of our own people. As a 
community, we look for the possibilities 
in change, and are supported to take risks 
and test ideas.experiences, while bringing our campuses, 
spaces, and physical environments 
together and to life. 
Our shared values and commitment, our 
culture of innovation and integrity, the 
capabilities and agency of our people; and  
our use of technologies, have the potential  
to bring all of our environments together into  
one powerful ecosystem, able to grow the 
positive impact of the RMIT community.
ADAPTIVE PRIORITIES 
To realise this aspiration, RMIT’s ways of 
working will build on six Adaptive Priorities:
1. Foster a collaborative, caring, inclusive  
and innovative culture
2. Support a resilient workforce with fulfilling 
career pathways
3. Enhance leadership capability across RMIT
4. Make RMIT’s processes and systems 
simpler to navigate and use
5. Support continuous learning with 
evidence and insight
6. Integrate RMIT’s physical and 
digital environmentsWe cultivate diversity and 
inclusion, enabling the greatest 
range of viewpoints and 
talented people to develop.“”
30
Our continuous cycle of user-led design and 
delivery enables teams to adapt to immediate 
community needs, as well as external challenges 
and opportunities. 
Technological adoption is underpinned by  
a commitment to shared goals and is supported  
by the right capabilities, purpose and practices  
to help the organisation work as one.
Our digital solutions are integrated and people 
focused. Our technology and technological 
practices maximise the potential for connection, 
collaboration, community and advance 
cultures of innovation.
We deploy and use technology within the RMIT 
learning and innovation ecosystems to transform 
the experience of staff, learners and partners. We support our whole community to develop 
global citizenship with integrity and ethical 
leadership to develop our international 
community and support career mobility across 
RMIT’s ecosystem and community.  
We develop leaders from a wealth of talent 
and experience, capable of inspiring our 
diverse community. 
Leaders are empowered to engage RMIT’s 
community and ensure our environment and 
culture support the community to take risks,  
test ideas and innovate.
ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 4  
Make RMIT’s processes and systems 
simpler to navigate and use
What will this look like in practice?
The experience of our learners, staff and partners 
is at the centre of all RMIT’s system and process 
design. Teams from across RMIT come together 
to work across organisational functions and 
achieve our purpose. 
RMIT’s workflows, processes and systems  
are connected, easy to follow and continuously 
improved. Organising products and systems 
around the user experience allows problem 
solving and improvements to happen in a 
more adaptive way.We define, create and support careers of the 
future to attract talent from across the region 
and the world. Enabling career mobility, locally 
and internationally, means we can leverage the 
comparative advantage of our global footprint. 
Diversity is a strength of RMIT, helping us achieve 
our goals and meet challenges. RMIT’s approach 
to fair and open recruitment will include building 
the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander tertiary 
education workforce for shared achievement  
and sustained success. 
Our employment practices are progressive, 
sector-leading and built on trust and accountability. 
Flexible working environments support 
individual circumstances and promote 
sustainable workloads. 
We invest in our people and their learning, 
building our capacity to adapt and grow. 
ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 3  
Enhance leadership capability  
across RMIT
What will this look like in practice?
We nurture effective, authentic and inspiring 
leadership practices at all levels and empower 
staff to learn, develop, excel and inspire others. 
Our leaders are committed to excellence, 
curiosity and impact, empowering others  
and contributing to solutions. 
31
The management and maintenance, safety, 
utility, productivity and efficiency of our campus 
buildings, assets, spaces and infrastructure 
provide optimal conditions for RMIT community 
engagement and wellbeing. 
We are expert at hybrid operations and RMIT’s 
smart campuses seamlessly blend our digital  
and in-person environments.
World class cloud computing infrastructure  
offers faster innovation, flexible resources,  
and economies of scale.
RMIT is digitally resilient, with the right capabilities 
to transform and protect our international 
technology environments and enable a secure 
digital university.
Robust cyber security means our business  
is safeguarded against increasingly sophisticated 
threats. Zero trust digital design capabilities 
and aware cloud infrastructure enhance our 
digital defence.This in turn drives a culture of continuous 
improvement, innovation and experimentation 
fuelled by trusted and reliable data 
analytics solutions. 
We value outside-in perspectives and take 
a data driven, evidence-based approach to 
benchmarking our organisational capability, 
services, quality and impact against other 
sectors and industries
Adaptive data governance practices are 
embedded to ensure clear direction 
and accountability for data quality and 
management. Our data assets are easily 
discoverable, understood and accessible 
through the use of a university-wide 
information catalogue.
Pioneering responsible AI and machine learning 
solutions enables RMIT to significantly advance 
our services to students, staff, alumni and the 
broader community through efficient and 
targeted data-driven innovations. 
ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 6  
Integrate RMIT’s physical  
and digital environments 
What will this look like in practice?
RMIT campuses and physical infrastructure 
exemplify best practice, operating as dynamic 
hubs and connecting our environments. ADAPTIVE PRIORITY 5  
Support continuous learning  
with evidence and insight
What will this look like in practice?
Data is the foundation for insights that drive 
RMIT’s decision-making at all levels, from 
executive leadership through to the frontline staff 
working directly with our learners and partners. 
RMIT people use and interpret data with 
confidence to derive meaningful insights and 
analytics support critical organisational decision 
making with speed and accuracy.The experience of our 
learners, staff and partners 
is at the centre of all RMIT’s 
system and process design.
32
The strategy clarifies our priorities, 
responsibilities and actions, guiding 
our progress with clear goals and 
values to support decision-making, 
learning and accountability. What  
comes next?
Learning from recent experience 
and recognising that disruption 
can be immediate, the strategy 
seeks to deliver progress through 
three-year cycles of action, 
learning and capability-building.
Taking RMIT into the 2030s, the strategy 
works towards a long-term vision for a more 
inclusive and sustainable future, focusing 
action and learning continuously on current 
experience and performance. RMIT will use an adaptive planning cycle to support 
quarterly delivery, evaluate implementation priorities 
every 18 months, and pursue cumulative progress 
towards our 2031 aspirations. 
The values, directions, actions and priorities outlined 
here will be applied to RMIT’s next steps in planning, 
organising, budgeting and reporting on our progress 
and accountabilities.
This strategy has been developed with the open 
and active participation of RMIT’s community; 
engagement that is crucial to the strategy’s success. The key to our success is not in 
any specific technology, discipline, 
jurisdiction or institutional structure, 
but is embedded in RMIT’s people 
and community relationships.AOP AOP AOP AOP AOP AOP AOP AOP AOPDirections
Goals
Actions Actions Actions9-YEAR  STRATEGY 2022 2031
Outcomes Outcomes
Adaptive Priorities3X 3-YEAR  ADAPTIVE  ROADMAPS
HORIZON 1 HORIZON 2 HORIZON 3Outcomes
33
