Aarhus University
Strategy 2025

3TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents
6
7
8
12
16
 
22
28
34
40 
 
46 
52
55PREFACE .... .... .................................................................................................................................
AARHUS UNIVERSITY'S V ALUES  .......................................................................................
AARHUS UNIVERSITY’S VISION  ........................................................................................
AARHUS UNIVERSITY’S MISSION  .....................................................................................
  Research of the highest international quality  .................................
  Research-based degree programmes of the highest  
  international quality  .......................................................................................
  Contributing to society’s development and welfare  
  through research  ..............................................................................................
  Interdisciplinary research to address societal challenges  .......
  Graduates for the labour market of the future ................................
  Development of research talents and integration  
  of research  into the degree programmes  .........................................  
IMPLEMENT A TION AND FOLLOW-UP  .............................................................................
STRA TEGY DIAGRAM   ..............................................................................................................
core  [kɔː]
the central part of a fleshy fruit, containing the seeds
the central, innermost, or most essential part of anything
of central importance; basic; fundamental
origin of 'core'
1275–1325; Middle English; origin uncertain;
perhaps <Old French cors body> Latin corpus

5 4STRATEGY 2025 AARHUS UNIVERSITY
Faculty of Arts Danish School of Education (DPU) School of Communication 
and Culture School of Culture and Society Aarhus BSS Department of Business 
Development and Technology Department of Law Department of Psychology 
and Behavioural Sciences Department of Political Science Department of 
Management Department of Economics and Business Economics Faculty of 
Health Department of Biomedicine Department of Public Health Department 
of Clinical Medicine Department of Dentistry and Oral Health Department 
of Forensic Medicine Faculty of Natural Sciences Department of Biology
Department of Computer Science Department of Physics and Astronomy
Department of Geoscience Department of Chemistry Department of 
Mathematics Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics Interdisciplinary 
Nanoscience Centre (iNANO) Faculty of Technical Sciences Department 
of Agroecology Department of Bioscience Department of Food Science
Department of Animal Science Department of Engineering Department 
of Environmental Science Aarhus University School of Engineering (ASE)

6PREFACEPREFACE
Aarhus University is a strong university that is internationally recognised for the high quality of its 
research, research-based degree programmes and public sector government consultancy, in ad -
dition to value-creating collaboration with private businesses, public sector institutions and civil 
society. The curiosity-driven creation of knowledge rooted in strong disciplines to the benefit of 
society has been the university’s reason for existing since its founding in 1928. And this mission is 
also the point of departure of this strategy, which charts the university’s course towards 2025. 
Aarhus University’s academic portfolio is broad-ranging, from the classic university disciplines of 
the humanities, natural sciences, social sciences, health sciences and theology to business and 
engineering, educational theory and practice and the environmental and agricultural sciences. 
This breadth gives the university a unique opportunity to combine strong disciplines in the creation 
of research breakthroughs, and to establish close collaboration with many sectors to the benefit 
of society as a whole.
Research is the foundation of Aarhus University’s vocation, including what is perhaps the universi -
ty’s most important task: to educate students and to give them access to new knowledge through 
research-based degree programmes that also develop their Bildung , creativity, independence 
and cooperation skills. In the eyes of the university, its students and graduates are the most impor -
tant bearers of the university’s knowledge. For this reason, it is important that they – along with the 
university’s academic staff – take responsibility for bringing their knowledge into play and in this 
way contribute to a sustainable society and an informed democracy. 
The 2025 strategy for Aarhus University describes the university’s vision, mission and fundamental 
values. While the vision is in line with the university’s current strategic course, it also sets new and 
higher goals for academic development and the scope of national and international collabora -
tion. The university’s goal is to strengthen its position among leading research-intensive universities 
while also creating decisive value for the individual and for society as a whole. 
The realisation of the vision through concrete actions will create results that will enhance the uni -
versity’s international reputation and impact on society. 
The strategy for 2025 can only succeed if the university is an attractive place to work that contin -
ually develops the quality of the work and study environment. The university’s ambition is to be an 
inspiring framework for all staff and students. To succeed in this, the university must ensure that op -
portunities and development are available to all, as well as ensuring staff and student involvement 
and visible, accessible leadership. 
The senior management team is looking forward to implementing the strategy and continuing 
the work of developing and operating the university in collaboration with the university’s staff and 
students.
AARHUS UNIVERSITY'S VALUES
Our fundamental values are described in the  
Magna Charta of the European Universities.
We safeguard freedom of research and expression, 
in addition to individuals’ opportunities to realise their potential.  
Open dialogue, tolerance and diversity are the very foundation 
of the university’s vocation. Because we regard the universities 
as one of the pillars of society, we assume co-responsibility for 
the development of a democratic, sustainable society.6PREFACE

9 8VISION VISION
Insight
Breakthroughs
International
Knowledge
Quality
Value
Aarhus University’s
Vision

11 10VISION VISION
What drives Aarhus University’s international collaboration  is the vision of working to connect 
Denmark to the global society through the university’s activities. With their strong tradition for 
international collaboration, the universities have a special responsibility to take the lead at a time 
in which international collaboration is facing political challenges, and in which the need to work 
together to find solutions to global societal challenges is greater than ever. Thus the university 
wants to work to promote an increased global exchange of knowledge and talent.
This vision centres on vibrant campuses  where students, staff and external partners meet and 
work closely together. The university’s main campus in Aarhus is already recognised internation -
ally for its distinctive architecture and urban location. In the coming years, the university will de -
velop and rethink both its main and satellite campuses, developing them into even more vibrant, 
engaging and innovative environments for study and research that are operated and developed 
sustainably. The university’s vision for its own sustainable operations and development is de -
scribed in its climate strategy, which supports the overall vision for 2025.AARHUS UNIVERSITY’S VISION
Aarhus University’s vision is to be a research-intensive university that aspires to the highest inter -
national quality and excels in creating value through knowledge, new insights and collaboration, 
in addition to facilitating connections between Denmark and the world. Aarhus University’s vision 
for 2025 will be realised through a focus on the following strategic commitments:
 
• Generating knowledge and research breakthroughs through free,  
 independent research of the highest international quality
• Research-based degree programmes of the highest international quality
• Performing impartial public sector consultancy services of the highest  
 international quality
• Encouraging the university’s students, graduates and researchers  
 to bring their knowledge into play in order to shape the society of the future 
• Contributing to international collaboration, global engagement and the solution of major  
 societal challenges through interdisciplinary research collaboration
• Generating innovation in established public and private sector companies and startups  
 through collaboration, both internally and with external partners
• Intensifying the exchange of talents and knowledge, locally, nationally and globally.
 
The vision demands  that the university apply its academic strength and breadth and its inter -
national position to the creation of value for society, both in Denmark and internationally. In the 
context of this strategy, value must be understood in a broad sense, as including the social, eco -
nomic and cultural development of society as a whole. Thus value cannot be construed solely as 
a question of contributing to economic growth, since the university’s role is also to develop critical, 
constructive dialogue and to frame human existence within a larger context, as well as to contrib -
ute to democratic development and a sustainable future. 
 
Democracy and sustainability  are central themes in the university’s vision for 2025. One of the 
university’s tasks is to contribute to a democracy in which opinions are debated and decisions are 
made on an informed basis and on the background of the latest knowledge. One of the greatest 
challenges facing society is the transition to sustainable development. Here the university’s task is 
to contribute solutions through research, education and collaboration. The ongoing digital trans -
formation will also have decisive impact on society in coming years. Here as well, the university 
must contribute both to driving development and studying its effects on society.
 
New advances and breakthroughs in knowledge  are created both within individual disciplines 
and in the encounter between them. In recognition of this, the university will both attract interna -
tional researchers and cultivate its own research staff, whether established researchers, promising 
junior researchers or talented PhD students.  
 
The university is one of the cornerstones of society , and its students, graduates and researchers 
help shape the society of the future through the knowledge they bring into play, from popular 
research communication to the general public to research-based public sector consultancy and 
researchers’ participation in government commissions and councils. 
 
Collaboration  is absolutely central to this strategy. Specifically, the university’s goal is to strengthen 
collaboration: across disciplines; with the private sector and public sector institutions; and in promot -
ing innovation. In this way, the university can increase the value of its contribution to society while 
at the same time maintaining its position at the vanguard of the needs of the society of the future. 
Connecting Denmark
and the worldA resear ch-intensive  univ ersity that aspir es
to the highest international quality and excels
in cr eating value thr ough knowledge,
new insights and collabor ation
CAMPUS

Collaboration
Education
Research
13 12MISSION MISSION
Aarhus University’s
Mission

14MISSION
AARHUS UNIVERSITY’S MISSION
Aarhus University will work to realise this vision through the six core tasks of the university, which 
define the university’s mission:     
    
• Research of the highest international quality
• Research-based degree programmes of the highest international quality
• Contributing to society’s development and welfare through research
• Interdisciplinary research to address societal challenges
• Graduates for the labour market of the future
• Development of research talents and integration of research into degree programmes.
The core tasks are in alignment with the tasks of the Danish universities as defined in the University 
Act. They can be grouped under the main headings of research, education and collaboration. 
In addition, the university has defined three overlapping areas in which research, education and 
collaboration supplement one another. Taken as a whole, the six core tasks reflect the breadth of 
the university’s activities, and along with ensuring a good environment for work and study, consti -
tute the framework for working with Strategy 2025. 
In the following six sections, each core task will be described, along with associated goals, sub-
goals and expected initiatives.
Research of the highes t
international qualityInterd isciplinar y
 resear ch to
addr ess
 societal
challengesGraduates fo r
the labour mark et
of the future
Research -
based degr ee 
progra mmes
of the highest  
international
quality
Development of resear ch 
talents and integra tion
of research into th e
degr ee pr ogra mmesContributing to society’ s
development and
welfare thro ugh resear ch
RESEARCHCOLLABORATIONEDUCATIONCAMPUS

17 16RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
Research
of the highest
international
quality

Aarhus University's research  
is free and independent. 
The university will further improve  
the quality of its research as it strives to 
achieve the highest international level.

20RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
Aarhus University's research is free and independent. The university will further improve the qual -
ity of its research as it strives to achieve the highest international level. To this end, the university’s 
goal is to promote:
• Research breakthroughs
• Career development and diversity.
Research breakthroughs
Sub-goal: Develop more research programmes with high international impact 
The university wants to create more research breakthroughs. To realise this goal, the individual 
disciplines, research groups and the work environment must be developed and strengthened 
further. The goal is for the university’s researchers to perform even more strongly in international 
competition, and for society to derive more benefit from breakthroughs in basic research, strate -
gic research and applied research. In addition, the university will continue to develop its research 
profile to ensure that the university will remain a significant driver of the development of society. 
Sub-goal: Increased internationalisation 
The university’s goal is to achieve a higher degree of international competition for permanent 
positions and to recruit talented researchers with a high international level. This will also involve 
fostering a higher degree of international engagement among the university’s permanent aca -
demic staff members.
Career development and diversity
Sub-goal: Strengthening researcher career development
The university’s goal is to give all researchers the opportunity to realise their potential and devel -
op professionally, providing optimal opportunities for participating in research collaboration at a 
high international level, contributing to research breakthroughs and competing for positions and 
grants. This applies to early career researchers at postdoc and assistant professor level, estab -
lished researchers with permanent positions and research directors. 
Sub-goal: More diversity in research groups
The university's goal of the highest quality of research requires more diversity among research 
staff. The university’s ambition is to work with diversity on a variety of fronts in order to exploit the 
total talent pool to the greatest possible extent. To do so, the university will intensify its work on 
appropriate recruitment processes in order to promote diversity and avoid discrimination. RESEARCH OF  THE HIGHES T INTERNA TIONAL  QUALITYCORE
TASK
RESEARCH
BREAKTHROUGHSGOALS
Develop r esear ch 
progra mmes with high 
international impac tInternationalisatio nDive rsity in
resear ch gr oupsSUB-
GOALSResearcher career
developmentCAREER DEVELO PMENT
AND DIVERSITY21RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
INITIA TIVES
The university will continue the following ongoing initiatives:
• Attract more qualified applications for permanent positions
• Attract more external funding
• Expansion of engineering research programmes
• Expansion of IT research programmes 
• Strengthening business research programmes
• Maintain and develop a strong Faculty of Arts 
• Strengthening research on childhood development, ages 0 -18
• The Junior Researcher Development Programme
• Better utilisation of the talent pool
The university wants to create 
more research breakthroughs.
To realise this goal, the individual 
disciplines, research groups and 
the work environment must be 
developed and strengthened
further.

23 22RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGRAMMES OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGRAMMES OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
Research-based  
degree programmes  
of the highest
international quality

Aarhus University strives for the 
highest academic level in its degree
programmes and to provide a vibrant,
engaging and innovative environment
for learning and study.

26RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGRAMMES OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGRAMMES  
OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
Aarhus University strives for the highest academic level in its degree programmes and to provide 
a vibrant, engaging and innovative environment for learning and study. Strong disciplines are 
premised on the recruitment of talented students and outstanding research and teaching staff, 
combined with a supportive environment for learning and study. To this end, the university has set 
the following goals:
• An attractive university for talented students
• In-depth knowledge.
An attractive university for talented students
Sub-goal: Better match between applicant and degree programme 
The university will maintain its position as an attractive university, and will continue to admit stu -
dents with strong academic qualifications who are motivated to immerse themselves in and 
engage in their degree programme and student life at the university. This goal applies to both 
national and international students. While changes in government policy have posed challenges 
for the recruitment of the latter group, the university’s goal is to strengthen its position within the 
given framework and to attract the most talented international students.   
Sub-goal: Better retention
A good introductory programme for first-years students builds on upper secondary programmes 
while also inspiring and challenging students academically from the very beginning. The uni -
versity will approach the entire first year from the perspective of providing a good introduction 
to university education, which will provide a smoother transition for new students. The university 
wants to improve the integration of students into their degree programme, as this has a decisive 
influence on retention and the quality of the academic environment. To this end, the university will 
focus on providing students with a good physical, social and academic environment throughout 
the degree programme, and on bringing students closer to research. This applies not least to the 
implementation of the recommendations regarding the provision of a good physical environ -
ment for work and study in the university’s Campus 2.0 plan. The university will also provide an 
inclusive, supportive environment for learning and study that makes room for the diversity of the 
student body in order to improve retention, well-being and utilisation of the talent pool.
In-depth knowledge
Sub-goal: Engaging teaching and learning
The university is constantly working to optimise the encounter between teacher, student and 
course content, as this is the key to the quality of both teaching and the degree programmes. Courses must be taught by individuals who combine excellent research and teaching qualifica -
tions. The university will prioritise this profile in the recruitment of researchers, and will continual -
ly develop their educational strategies and skills in order to ensure that students gain in-depth 
knowledge and that they encounter highly qualified teachers who use up-to-date methods. This 
initiative involves the university making the most of the new opportunities offered by digital learn -
ing technologies. By doing so, the university will be able to engage students before, during and 
after class to a higher degree, which will improve student learning outcomes.
Sub-goal: More interdisciplinary elements
Students must be allowed to supplement their primary discipline with interdisciplinary elements, 
thus benefitting from the university’s academic breadth and international partnerships. 
Sub-goal: Strengthening students’ general competencies
The university will offer students degree programmes that both provide in-depth knowledge and 
the opportunity to improve their general competencies. This combination is important in order 
to better prepare students for the labour market of the future. General competencies reflect the 
university’s focus on aspects such as sustainability, digitalisation, technological literacy, entrepre -
neurship and Bildung . RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGR AMMES
OF THE HIGHES T INTERNAT IONAL  QUALITYCORE
TASK
ATTRACTIVE UNIVERSITY
FOR TALENTED S TUDENTSGOALS
Match betw een 
applicant an d
degr ee pr ogrammeRetentionEngaging
teaching and
learningGenera l
competenciesInterd isciplinar y 
elementsSUB-
GOALSIN-DEP TH KNOW LEDGE27RESEARCH-BASED DEGREE PROGRAMMES OF THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONAL QUALITY
INITIA TIVES
The university will continue the following ongoing initiatives:
• Recruitment and admission of talented and motivated students
• Engaging Educational IT 
• Development of an attractive environment for study that promotes better  
 academic integration of students, 'Campus 2.0'
The university will launch the following new initiatives:
• Better introductory programme for new students
• Electives across degree programmes, for example within sustainability  
 and entrepreneurship
• Digital competencies for all students
The university is constantly
working to optimise the
encounter between teacher,
student and course content.

29 28CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE THROUGH RESEARCH CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE THROUGH RESEARCH
Contributing
to society’s
development and
welfare through
research
The entire range of the university’s
disciplines must be brought into play
in these external collaborations in order
to increase their competitiveness
and knowledge.

32CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE THROUGH RESEARCH
Sub-goal: Continued development of research-based public sector consultancy
Public sector consultancy is an important contribution to knowledge-based democracy, and must 
rest on the fundamental principles of transparency, objectivity and impartiality. The university 
wants to maintain, develop and assure the quality of public sector consultancy services during 
the strategy period. 
Sub-goal: Increased dialogue with decision-makers
The university wants to strengthen dialogue with decision-makers and relevant alumni in order to 
take a more proactive role in relation to current political issues, thereby contributing to improving 
the framework conditions for university education to enable the university to maximise its contri -
bution to society.CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVEL OPMENT
AND WELF ARE THROUGH RESEARCHCORE
TASK
COLL ABOR ATION WITH  
EXTERNAL PARTIES CONTRIBUTING TO A
KNO WLEDGE-BASED DEMOC RACYGOALS
Projects with
business and indust ry, 
the public secto r
and civil societyInnovation and 
entr epreneurshipVisibility of expe rt 
contributions to  
public debateDevelopment
of public sector
consultancyDialogue wit h
decision-mak ersSUB-
GOALS33CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE THROUGH RESEARCH
INITIA TIVES
The university will continue the following ongoing initiatives:
• The business initiative: large companies, SMEs and Danish municipalities
• More research contracts with companies
• Quality assurance system for public sector consultancy
• Supplementation of contract funds within public sector consultancy 
• Strengthening external collaboration within public sector consultancy
The university will launch the following new initiatives:
• Strengthening entrepreneurship 
• Acknowledgement of students volunteerism
• Increased use of digital platforms for expert contributions 
• Relationship-building with decision-makers and other relevant political actors
The long-term ambition is to
establish an extensive ecosystem 
for entrepreneurship and spinout 
companies at and around
the university.CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY’S DEVELOPMENT
AND WELFARE THROUGH RESEARCH
Aarhus University will significantly strengthen its contribution to the development and welfare of 
society as a whole during the strategy period. To this end, the university’s goal is to increase its:
• Collaboration with external parties
• Contribution to a knowledge-based democracy.
Collaboration with external parties
Sub-goal: More projects in collaboration with business and industry, the public sector, private 
foundations and civil society
The university will increase collaboration with external parties during the strategy period, and 
will invite them to collaborate more closely. In these collaborations, the university will safeguard 
freedom of research to ensure that the research performed in collaboration with external par -
ties is impartial, to the benefit of society. The entire range of the university’s disciplines must be 
brought into play in these external collaborations in order to increase their competitiveness and 
knowledge. In addition, the university will increase its involvement with civil society, particularly in 
relation to acknowledging the extensive volunteerism of its students. 
For many years the university has worked closely with Aarhus University Hospital and the other 
hospitals in Central Denmark Region. These collaborations have made crucial contributions to 
the high level of health science research and education at the university, both in research and in 
education, and have also brought important benefits to society. The university wants to develop 
this collaboration further, in addition to establishing more spinout companies in collaboration with 
the university hospital.
Sub-goal: More innovation and entrepreneurship 
Conditions for entrepreneurship must be improved, and students’ interest in this area must be 
stimulated to give them better opportunities to translate their ideas into concrete spinout compa -
nies and to develop entrepreneurship skills. The long-term ambition is to establish an extensive 
ecosystem for entrepreneurship and spinout companies at and around the university.
Contributing to a knowledge-based democracy
Sub-goal: Increased visibility of expert contributions to public debate
The university’s researchers already contribute extensively to public debate and popular research 
communication for a general audience. The university’s goal is to draw public attention to and 
increase its impact on society – and thus its participation in public debate and in relevant deci -
sion-making processes – by contributing relevant knowledge. 

35 34INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TO ADDRESS SOCIETAL CHALLENGES INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TO ADDRESS SOCIETAL CHALLENGES
Interdisciplinary
 research
 to address
 societal
 challenges

Aarhus University will establish
 strategic research and education 
partnerships with selected 
research-intensive universities.

38INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TO ADDRESS SOCIETAL CHALLENGES
INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TO ADDRESS  
SOCIETAL CHALLENGES
Aarhus University will intensify and increase its contribution to solving society’s major challenges, 
globally and nationally. To this end, the university’s goal is to increase:
• International collaboration
• Interdisciplinary collaboration. 
International collaboration
Sub-goal: Establish partnerships with selected universities and other parties
Because many of the challenges facing society transcend national borders and require solutions 
that demand international collaboration, the university will establish strategic partnerships in re -
gard to both research and education with selected research-intensive universities and other rel -
evant international actors. Among other benefits, these partnerships will contribute to increased 
internationalisation and global engagement. At the same time, the university will continue to 
maintain its extensive international collaboration with existing partners.  
Interdisciplinary collaboration
Sub-goal: More interdisciplinary activities 
Solving the challenges facing society requires interdisciplinary collaboration. To this end, the uni -
versity wants to foster more interdisciplinary activities at the university, for example in relation to 
sustainability. The university will facilitate and strengthen international research in this area and 
contribute to the global collaboration to realise the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The 
university will also strengthen interdisciplinary research collaboration in relation to social cohe -
sion, with a special focus on various aspects of inequality. The university is uniquely positioned 
to establish more interdisciplinary activities based in strong disciplines because it spans such a wide 
range of fields.INTERDISCIPLINAR Y RESEARCH
TO ADRESS SOCIET AL CHALLENGESCORE
TASK
INTERNAT IONAL
COLL ABOR ATIONINTERDISCIPLINAR Y
COLL ABOR ATIONGOALS
Partnerships with selected univ ersities Interd isciplinar y activitiesSUB-
GOALS39INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TO ADDRESS SOCIETAL CHALLENGES
INITIA TIVES
The university will continue the following ongoing initiatives:
• Collaborative projects in the international university network The Guild and
 the Circle U. Alliance 
• Multi-faculty engagement in the thematic interdisciplinary centres within the
 natural sciences and technology
The university will launch the following new initiatives:
• Sustainability
• Social cohesion with a focus on inequality
The university will facilitate and 
strengthen international research 
in this area and contribute to the 
global collaboration to realise the 
UN’s Sustainable Development 
Goals, for example in relation  
to sustainability.

41 40GRADUATES FOR THE LABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURE GRADUATES FOR THE LABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURE
Graduates for
the labour market
of the future

Graduates are Aarhus University’s most 
important contribution to society, and they 
must acquire internationally competitive 
knowledge and competencies.

44GRADUATES FOR THE LABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURE45GRADUATES FOR THE LABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURE
INITIA TIVES
GRADUA TES F OR THE L ABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURECORE
TASK
DEVEL OPMENT OF THE DEGREE
PROGR AMME PORT FOLIOLINKS BETWEEN ST UDENT S
AND THE L ABOUR MARKETGOALS
Future -pro ofed graduate 
competency pr oﬁle sThe furt her and continuing 
education of the futu reDegr ee pr ogrammes with
care er-oriented elementsSUB-
GOALSThe university will continue the following ongoing initiatives:
• More graduates employed in the private sector
• Education of more engineers 
• Education of more IT specialists
• Development of the graduate competency profile at the Faculty of Arts 
• Development of the MSc in Economics and Business Administration portfolio
• The business initiative: Master’s thesis collaboration as well as internships  
 with companies
The university will launch the following new initiatives:
• Develop further education programmes, particularly focusing on digital competencies
• Retain international students
The university will adjust
the competency profile of its 
graduates to better meet the 
needs of the private and public 
sectors, as well as the current and 
future needs of society in general.GRADUATES FOR THE LABOUR MARKET OF THE FUTURE
Graduates are Aarhus University’s most important contribution to society, and they must acquire 
internationally competitive knowledge and competencies. This increases their employability, 
prepares them for a volatile world and a volatile labour market and prepares them to contribute 
to solving societal challenges. To this end, the university’s goal is to promote:
• Development of the degree programme portfolio
• Establishing links between students and the labour market.
Development of the degree programme portfolio
Sub-goal: A future-proofed graduate competency profile
The university will adjust the competency profile of its graduates to better meet the needs of the 
private and public sectors, as well as the current and future needs of society in general. This will be 
done without compromising on quality or on graduates’ competencies, and in ongoing dialogue 
with employers and alumni.
Sub-goal: Development of the continuing and further education of the future
The university’s goal is to contribute to meeting society's increasing demand for the continuing 
education of the workforce through research-based further and continuing education, for exam -
ple in connection with the increased digitalisation of society. The existing continuing and further 
education models are currently under pressure. To this end, the university wants to work with new 
models that can meet the need for new competencies on the part of both graduates and the 
labour market, now and in future.
Establishing links between students and the labour market
Sub-goal: More career-oriented elements in the degree programmes
The aim is to give all students the opportunity to collaborate with relevant employers as part of 
their degree programme. This will allow students to establish links to the labour market before 
graduation, and will contribute to maintaining the high employment levels of university graduates 
taken as a whole. 

47 46DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH TALENTS AND INTEGRATION OF RESEARCH INTO DEGREE PROGRAMMES DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH TALENTS AND INTEGRATION OF RESEARCH INTO DEGREE PROGRAMMES
Development of
research talents  and
integration of research
into degree programmes

The university will attract  
more international talents to its
PhD degree programmes and increase
the international mobility of 
the university's own talents.

50DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH TALENTS AND INTEGRATION OF RESEARCH INTO DEGREE PROGRAMMES
DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH TALENTS AND INTEGRATION  
OF RESEARCH INTO THE DEGREE PROGRAMMES
The high quality of Aarhus University's research, education and collaboration can only be main -
tained if the university continues to work with researcher talent development and the integration 
of research into degree programmes. To this end, the university’s goal is to promote:
• The PhD degree programmes
• Research integration.
The PhD degree programmes
Sub-goal: Increased internationalisation of PhD degree programmes
The university will attract more international talents to its PhD degree programmes and increase 
the international mobility of the university's own talents. During the strategy period, the university 
will bolster the internationalisation of its PhD programmes by cooperating with the university's 
international alliance partners. This will enhance PhD students’ international networks and their 
opportunities for pursuing a successful career, either within academia or in other sectors. 
  
Sub-goal: Earlier career clarification
A PhD degree can either lead to an academic career or a variety of alternative careers in the 
public and private sectors. Society’s demand for highly qualified knowledge workers is increasing, 
a demand which PhD graduates meet. The university will take steps to introduce career clarifica -
tion earlier in the PhD programmes to put graduates in the best position to make career choices.
Research integration
Sub-goal: More immersive modules in degree programmes
The immersive modules will serve to further the university’s ambition of increasing research inte -
gration in the degree programmes in order to achieve an even higher academic level. 
Sub-goal: Increased interaction between students and researchers
The university will encourage more interaction, and include students in research projects to a 
higher degree. This will develop students’ own competencies, in-depth knowledge in the de -
gree programmes and the students’ ability to participate in research collaboration and research 
teams, in addition to contributing to students’ academic Bildung .51DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH TALENTS AND INTEGRATION OF RESEARCH INTO DEGREE PROGRAMMES
INITIA TIVES
The university will continue the following ongoing initiative:
• More permanent academic staff members per studentCORE
TASK
GOALSDEVELO PMENT  OF RESEARCH TA LENT S AND INTEGR ATION
OF RESEARCH INTO  THE DEGREE PROGR AMMES
Internationalisation of
PhD pr ogrammesCare er clariﬁcatio nIntera ction betw een 
students and r esear chersRESEARCH INTEGRA TION THE PHD DEGREE PROGRA MMES
Immersive  modules
in degr ee pr ogra mmesSUB-
GOALSThe university will launch the following new initiatives:
• Joint courses for PhD students with partner universities
• More study abroad for PhD students
• Earlier career clarification for PhD students
• Continued development of talent tracks 
• More students involved in research projects
Immersive modules will serve
to further the university’s
ambition of increasing research 
integration in the degree
programmes in order to achieve 
an even higher academic level.

52IMPLEMENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP
IMPLEMENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP
The 2025 strategy will remain in force for a five-year period. In connection with the development 
of the strategy, goals, sub-goals and concrete initiatives have been set, just as currently ongoing 
strategic initiatives and the strategic framework contract have been incorporated into the strategy. 
The university will monitor the implementation of the strategy closely and draft action plans in 
collaboration with the faculties, schools and departments. Each year from April to June, the uni -
versity will follow up on the activities of the previous year, and will then determine the activities for 
the coming year. In this way, the university will ensure the availability of the necessary resources, 
administrative support and, not least, local and subject-specific ownership of the strategy. 
In addition, implementation and follow-up will also provide an opportunity for the university to 
launch new initiatives, which will enable the university to react appropriately to any changes in 
its framework conditions, and not least meet new and unforeseen needs on the part of society. In 
this regard, the university’s goal is to respond with greater agility, thus increasing its contribution to 
society.  

54 55STRATEGY DIAGRAM
Strategy diagram
A research-intensive university that aspires to the highest international quality and excels in creating
value through knowledge, new insights and collaboration – connecting Denmark and the world
» » »Research of the highest
international quality
Research  
breakthroughsCareer
development
 and diversityCollaboration with  
external parties Development
of the degree
programme
portfolioAttractive
university for
talented studentsThe PhD degree
programmesResearch
 integrationContributing to
a knowledge-based
democracyIn-depth knowledgeInterna -
tional 
collabo -
rationInterdis -
ciplinary 
collabo -
ration Links 
between 
students  
and the 
labour  
market
Develop 
research 
programmes 
with high 
international 
impactDiversity  
in research 
groupsPartner-
ships with 
selected 
universitiesInter-
disciplinary 
activitiesProjects
with business 
and industry, 
the public 
sector and 
civil societyVisibility  
of expert 
contributions 
to public 
debateDevelop-
ment of 
public
sector
consultancyFuture-  
proofed 
graduate 
competency 
profilesThe
further and 
continuing 
education of 
the futureDegree  
programmes  
with career-  
oriented 
elementsMatch 
between 
applicant 
and degree 
programmeRetentionEngaging 
teaching
and
learningInter-  
disciplinary 
elementsGeneral  
compe-  
tenciesCareer  
clarificationInterna-  
tionalisation 
of PhD  
programmesImmersive 
modules  
in degree 
programmesInteraction 
between 
students and 
researchersDialogue
with
decision-  
makersInnovation 
and entre-
preneurshipInterna-  
tionalisationResearcher
career
develop-  
mentInterdisciplinary
 research to
address
 societal
challengesContributing to society’s development
and welfare through researchGraduates for the labour 
market of the future Research-based degree programmes
of the highest international qualityDevelopment of research talents
 and integration of research into  
the degree programmesVision
Core
task
Goals
Sub-goals
AARHUS UNIVERSITY   STRA TEGY 2025
Produced by:  The Rector’s Office
Photo:  Lars Kruse and Ida Jensen | AU Photo  
             Lise Balsby, Jesper Rais and Søren Kjeldgaard
Design & layout:  Nikolai Lander | AU Design
Translation:  Lenore Messick,  Events and Communication Support
Printing & finish:  Vahle+Nikolaisen
Print run UK: 2,000
ISBN 978-87-92829-78-8
SVANEMÆRKET
5041-0618SE/011/05

Aarhus University
Nordre Ringgade 1
DK-8000 Aarhus C
Denmark
Tel.: +45 8715 0000
Email: au@au.dk
www.au.dkAarhus University's values
Our fundamental values are described in
the Magna Charta of the European Universities.
We safeguard freedom of research and expression,
in addition to individuals’ opportunities to realise their potential.
Open dialogue, tolerance and diversity are the very foundation
of the university’s vocation. Because we regard the universities as
one of the pillars of society, we assume co-responsibility for
the development of a democratic, sustainable society.

