PLAN
2020 • 2025DEVELOPMENT
PLAN
2020 • 2025DEVELOPMENT
This document aims to define the major 
areas that will guide the development of 
the university during the next five years, 
outlining future courses of action that 
should lead us in the next twenty years. 
This plan has been developed with the participation 
of the university community, a task that has been 
led in a remarkable way by the Provost Guillermo 
Marshall, whom I thank for his time and 
dedication, coordinating a great team within the 
university. Together with this active participation 
of the community - which has included the 
contribution to the UC Dialoga initiative and the 
submittal of comments and suggestions from the 
faculties - the report of the Search Committee 
for University President has been a vital guide, 
being a very broad and participatory process that 
allowed us to get to know the feelings of the 
community in different areas of university life.
We have insisted that the identity of the university 
is a permanent challenge that must be installed as 
a priority in the formulation of a new development 
plan. We constitute a university community with 
a Catholic identity, inclusive and welcoming, open 
to believers and non-believers, deeply rooted and 
committed to society. The community is made 
up of professors, students, professionals, and 
administrative staff, together with the alumni of 
the university, who make a renewed and significant 
contribution. The challenge is, from our principles 
and values, to provide a substantive and original contribution to the country in the scientific, social, 
cultural, economic, and artistic fields, among 
others.
In this sense, the care of the university community 
must be at the center of our interest. Universities 
are made up of people who study, teach and work 
in them, so that their hallmark and individual and 
collective contribution give them their character and 
imprint. Thus, we must be concerned with fostering 
dialogue, respect, appreciation for each person, 
communication, and transparency in internal 
relations.
The sustainability of the university and its 
proposals to the country are transversally at 
the center of this development plan. We have 
implemented various measures aimed at driving 
this process in the aspects of teaching, research, 
and concrete and real implementation within the 
UC. Our goal of achieving carbon neutrality by the 
year 2038, when we will celebrate one hundred and 
fifty years of institutional life, is guiding our tasks 
and processes.
Being aware of the centrality and priority role of 
teaching at the university, all efforts should focus on 
the integral development of students, considering 
providing the best tools for their growth, in a close 
relationship with their professors. In this plan there 
are new challenges that include academic integrity 
and advancing in teaching innovation through PRESENTATION
5Ignacio Sánchez D.
President 
Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile

online methodology. We will work on establishing 
an internal quality assurance system on gender 
equity policies and on promoting academic careers.
In the field of research, the UC has a special 
commitment within the country, since it is 
responsible for one of the main contributions in 
science, technology, arts and humanities. We must 
continue on the path of deepening research in 
the basic sciences; strengthening research in the 
areas of social sciences and humanities, and in 
the cultivation and innovation in art and beauty. 
We have made a great effort to professionalize our 
doctoral training, in the application and transfer of 
research areas geared to the reality of the country, 
and in the application to new public policies, 
innovation and entrepreneurship. Mention must 
be made of the Network of Regional Centers and 
Stations, which will allow a greater linkage with 
the territory, enhancing interdisciplinarity and 
internationalization.
The new Office of the Vice President for 
International Affairs is tasked with consolidating 
the internationalization of the UC. The student 
exchange, the presence of a growing number of 
foreign professors, collaborative research projects, 
competitive projects and international funds, 
and the international networks are all worthy of 
mention, and represent opportunities to be further 
developed. On the other hand, the implementation 
of a true internationalization process at home is a 
challenge to be met in the coming years.
In terms of inclusion, the UC has implemented 
measures aimed at eliminating barriers to admission, academic progression, and development 
of university life with the objective of having a 
more inclusive and diverse institution. We are still 
far from what we want to achieve, however, we are 
advancing steadily and with a clear objective.
 We will continue to implement measures to increase 
the presence of students from all educational 
sectors, with special educational needs, stimulating 
all avenues of inclusive access. The invitation, 
along with access to university, is graduating and 
obtaining a diploma in a timely manner, that is, a 
great challenge to meet.
We have also pointed out that the path towards 
the digitalization of the university is an urgency, 
which is manifested by a present need and a 
future challenge. Undergraduate and graduate 
teaching and its online development, together 
with continuing education, has been developing in 
a very noticeable way. We have a clear leadership 
with projection in Latin America in alliance with 
important universities in the region. On the other 
hand, the current distance work has stimulated 
us to organize ourselves in a different way, which 
implies that with the support of technological 
systems and a new internal management we will be 
able to improve the administrative, financial, and 
management aspects, with the objective of having a 
more interconnected and integrated university. It is 
clear that access to reliable and timely information 
is crucial for the development of our university.
In the public sphere, the recent social crisis 
demands a profound reflection and self-criticism 
within the universities. The reflection must include a new policy and a way to organize ourselves 
within society, having as a central objective the 
dignity and integral development of the persons. 
Thus, the constituent process that will take place 
in the coming months will be a great opportunity 
to contribute to the issues that are a priority to 
achieve the objectives described. On the other 
hand, the current pandemic has made it possible to 
express the broad and generous contribution of the 
universities through their dedication to the country 
in the different areas that are a priority for the care 
and development of the national community. 
Our university has been able to respond to the needs 
of the country and will continue to do so, since it 
is its responsibility and duty as an institution of 
public commitment.
The sustainability and projection of the university 
is based on making the necessary efforts to provide 
it with the necessary resources to fulfill its tasks. In 
this sense, together with the generation of our own 
resources, state contributions and national and 
foreign competitive funds, we have strengthened 
measures to create an endowment fund, which 
allows us to look at the development of the 
university in the long term. This is a present and 
future project, which is vital for the institutional 
development. One of the strengths of the UC, which 
distinguishes it in a unique way in the Higher 
Education system of the country, is undoubtedly its 
contribution to different areas of life and national 
culture. This work is done in conjunction with 
affiliated institutions, which have emerged from 
the UC and are currently developing in the fields of 
education, health, sports, science, technology, art, among others. Our will is to strengthen this joint 
work to enhance the contribution of the university 
in areas that are of great benefit to society.
The areas of work presented represent a project for 
the next five years, with a view to the development 
of the UC in the next twenty years. In this sense, 
strengthening each of these courses of action will 
open up new challenges to be achieved in the quality 
of academic work, in the inclusion of students, and 
in the development of the University.
These axes of development are the ones that should 
be strengthened and updated with the progress of the 
current plan. The challenge is that this institutional 
plan is incorporated into the strategic project of 
each of the faculties, areas, and units of the UC.
We project a university that in the next twenty years 
will strengthen its work from our identity, with a 
high quality contribution in the comprehensive 
training of its students, in the creation of 
new knowledge and its transfer to society. We 
prioritize progress in the inclusion and diversity 
of our community; we seek a sustainable UC in 
a comprehensive way, with the responsibility of 
being a cultural heritage of Chile at the service of 
society. The above, within the framework of an 
international projection, which will position it as a 
reference at regional level and with areas of global 
leadership. These are great challenges to achieve 
with the contribution of the university community.
Santiago, December 9, 2020.
7 6 2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION  / 10
UC CHALLENGES 2020-2025  / 12
AXES OF DEVELOPMENT  /
INDICATORS / 951. CATHOLIC IDENTITY / 15
2. UC COMMUNITY / 23
3. UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE / 31
4. ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS / 39
5. RESEARCH AND CREATION / 49
6. DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION / 57
7. EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES / 65
8. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION / 71
9. PUBLIC ROLE AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY / 79
10. INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT / 87

INTRODUCTION
This new UC Development Plan for 2020-
2025 is partly a work of continuity of the 
2010-2015 and 2015-2020 plans aimed 
at consolidating issues that have been 
developing, and partly a bet on new areas 
that the university has decided to address.
This plan, like the two previous ones, was built 
on the basis of the community’s feelings and 
opinions. The work of the Search Committee for 
University President, which actively listened to the 
opinions of students, academics, professionals, and 
administrators on the current state and development 
of the UC, was fundamental in its preparation. This 
Committee held 125 meetings with members of 
the community, in which more than 1,600 people 
participated and submitted their proposals, dreams, 
and desires for the future of our university.
In his inaugural speech for a new term, the 
President/University President outlined the issues 
he considered a priority to be addressed in the next 
five years, most of them taken from the document 
he received from the Search Committee, from his 
permanent contact with the community and the 
current situation we are facing. These concerns 
are summarized in 10 axes that constitute this new 
plan for the 2020-2025 period.
In order to deepen the discussion of these issues, 10 
commissions were formed with the participation of 
80 people from our community. As a result of this 
reflection, these commissions drew up proposals 
for each of the axes if the plan.The proposals were presented and discussed in plenary 
sessions, in an extended session of the University 
Superior Council. Subsequently, Office of the Vice 
President for Communications organized days of 
reflection and discussion of some of the themes of 
the plan in the UC Dialoga format, bringing together 
500 members of our community. Finally, a working 
document was discussed within the councils of the 18 
faculties, the College, and the Villarrica campus.
Thus, the 2020-2025 Development Plan is a 
proposal that brings together different views 
regarding the future of the UC and its challenges, 
in order to persevere in our purpose of serving the 
Church and the country with quality.
The issues that have been prioritized for the period 
are those that require special attention in the next 
five years. This prioritization does not imply, 
however, that those axes that were part of the 2010-
2015 and 2015-2020 plans do not still constitute 
relevant matters for our university. They continue 
to be because they are issues of permanent concern 
for the university and its actors. In this sense, the 
current proposal perseveres in certain fundamental 
concepts of our mission, while insisting on aspects 
that have reached a certain degree of maturity and 
must follow their natural evolution. We cannot 
forget that, particularly in the university-related 
work, what was important yesterday continues to 
be significant today.
The 2020-2025 Development Plan innovates with 
respect to the two previous plans by explicitly 
11 10including objectives and actions in each of its axes. 
In addition, this plan continues to be a guide for the 
formulation of the strategic plans of the academic 
units and for decision making and the definition 
of the action plans of the Superior Direction. From 
this perspective, it is an invitation to each of the 
academic and administrative units to feel responsible 
for its development and to formulate proposals that 
will allow the realization of these objectives, these 
actions, and the aspirations that inspire them.
The 2020-2025 Development Plan is structured 
around three axes that cut across our work. First, 
there is the identity of the university and the 
sense of community. The plan concludes with the 
institutional management axis, which is the one 
that supports the academic work, growth, and our 
projection.
On a more specific level, seven priority areas have 
been identified for the period: university governance; 
academic challenges and innovations; research 
and creation; deepening internationalization; 
expanding opportunities; digital transformation; 
and public role and engagement with society.
This plan is neither constructed nor formulated in 
isolation from the current university context, nor 
from the reality that we are living in as a country, 
nor from the problems facing humanity today. The 
university is inserted in a society where its identity 
is continually threatened, in times where the Church 
is experiencing one of its most deepest crises, in 
a fragmented country with wounds that became evident during the social unrest, in a university 
system with a new higher education law that, 
among other things, has funding difficulties, and 
in a world with a severe environmental crisis and 
a health crisis resulting from the worst pandemic 
in a century.
 This adverse panorama cannot paralyze us, we 
must continue to move forward precisely to face 
and solve these problems, but we must also be 
realistic about what can be done.
We cannot forget who we are. Pope Francis, 
addressing the community during his visit to the 
university in January 2018, reminds us:
“The history of this University is intertwined, in 
a certain way, with the history of Chile. There are 
thousands of men and women who, having been 
educated here, have fulfilled relevant tasks for the 
development of the country. I would especially like to 
recall the figure of St. Alberto Hurtado, in this year 
that marks 100 years since he began his studies here. 
His life becomes a clear testimony of how intelligence, 
academic excellence and professionalism, harmonized 
with faith, justice and charity, far from diminishing, 
reach a force that is a prophecy capable of opening 
horizons and illuminating the path, especially for those 
discarded from society, especially today in which this 
culture of discarding prevails”.
Guillermo Marshall R.
Provost 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
CATHOLIC IDENTITY
- Inspired by the Ex Corde Ecclesiae
-  The UC as a substantive and original contribution 
to the country
-  The integration of knowledge and the dialogue 
between reason and faith
- The UC open to welcome everyone
- The deepening of the UC imprint
UC COMMUNITY
- An inclusive, welcoming, and fraternal community
- University coexistence
- A diverse community with a sense of belonging
- Communication and transparency
- T owards a culture of sustainability
INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT
- UC’s economic sustainability and future development
- Linkage and related entities
- Carbon Neutrality
-  Internalization of services provided by external collaborators 
and professional development of the plant staffUNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE
- UC’s Academic Structure
- Structure of academic programs
- Bylaws and regulations
ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS
- Educational project
- Digital challenges and academic management
- Academic development and gender equity
- Academic integrity
- Quality assurance
- Student development and university life
RESEARCH AND CREATION
- Creation and transfer of frontier knowledge
- Network of Regional Centers and Stations
- Graduate School
DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION
- Institutionalization of global affairs
- Global, cross-cutting, and inclusive training
-  Accompanying the community within and beyond the borders  
and linkage with foreign alumni
- International collaboration in research and creation
- Strategic engagement
EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES
- Inclusion with a focus on students
- A more diverse and inclusive community
- Inclusion research and transfer
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
- Digital culture and institutional governance
- Information management and security
- Digital teaching and student experience
PUBLIC ROLE AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY
- T raining people to serve the common good
- Public commitment in academic activities
- Public role of the university
- Dissemination of artistic cultureUC CHALLENGES
2020-2025
CATHOLIC IDENTITY1.
The UC as a substantive and original contribution to the countryThe integration of knowledge and dialogue between reason and faith inspired by Ex Corde Ecclesiae
The UC open to welcome everyone The deepening of the UC imprint
CATHOLIC IDENTITY17 16
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANCATHOLIC 
IDENTITY
Inspired by the 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae
Born from the heart of the Church, the Universidad 
Católica is an academic community that seeks, in a 
profound sense, the truth in all areas of knowledge. 
Through its teaching, research, and outreach 
activities, the university makes a significant 
contribution to society based on its own identity. 
Its condition as a Catholic university is manifested 
and expressed in the nature and modality in which 
it approaches knowledge and its contribution to 
the country, inspired by the Ex Corde Ecclesiae 
Apostolic Constitution.1
According to this Apostolic Constitution, the 
believer can know that truth has its source in God, 
but he can never renounce the communitarian work 
of seeking it. “Our age, in fact, is in urgent need 
of that form of disinterested service which is to 
proclaim the meaning of truth, a fundamental value 
without which freedom, justice and the dignity of 
man disappear. In response to a kind of universal 
humanism, the Universidad Católica dedicates 
itself entirely to the search for all aspects of truth 
in its essential relationship with the supreme 
Truth, which is God”2. This implies a deepening of 
the integration of knowledge through dialogue and interdisciplinarity, where philosophy and theology 
play a key role. Both disciplines, fundamental in 
every good university and particularly important 
in a Catholic institution, on the one hand, allow us 
to transcend the partiality of each science and, on 
the other, to shed light on the Revelation of Jesus 
Christ, manifested in Scripture and Tradition, 
together with the Magisterium of the Church and 
the People of God as a whole.
The UC as a 
substantive and 
original contribution 
to the country
Since its foundation in 1888, the Universidad 
Católica has been committed to its identity with 
the truth and the light of faith, always promoting 
freedom of teaching and guaranteeing freedom of 
1. Ex Corde Ecclesiae Apostolic Constitution of the Supreme Pontiff John Paul II on Catholic Universities (1990).
2. Ex Corde Ecclesiae No. 4.OBJECTIVE / 1
Catholic identity:  
objectives and actionsREVIEWING AND CREATING DOCUMENTS  
IN THE LIGHT OF EX CORDE ECCLESIAE
 /  Reviewing and adjusting the Declaration of Principles of the Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile in light of Ex Corde Ecclesiae.
 /  Creating an introductory document to our university that emphasizes 
that our training goes beyond just the professional field, ensuring  
that the language used is up-to-date and accessible to all.
 /  Providing both documents to academics, students, and  
administrative and professional staff, especially to those  
who are entering the university for the first time.
“A Catholic university is able 
to empathize with social 
challenges and with the people 
who need it most.”.
UC Dialogue / 2020

CATHOLIC IDENTITY19 18
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
MOVING TOWARDS A GREATER INTEGRATION OF 
KNOWLEDGE AND STRENGTHENING THE DIALOGUE 
BETWEEN REASON AND FAITH
 /  Consolidating an interdisciplinary Institute for Sustainable 
Development with explicit reference to Laudato si’.
 /  Developing an academic line that addresses the Social 
Doctrine of the Church, either independently or as part of an 
Institute of Applied Ethics.
 /  Creating new interdisciplinary courses on sustainability and 
integral ecology and on the Social Doctrine of the Church  
as a contribution to general training.OBJECTIVE / 2
Catholic identity:  
objectives and actions
The integration of knowledge is confirmed and 
strengthened through dialogue between reason 
and faith, in the confidence that there can be no 
contradiction between them, because “profane 
realities and those of faith have their origin in the 
same God”5, although they manifest themselves in 
different ways. To this interdisciplinary dialogue 
is added the invitation to encourage a culture of 
encounter based on diverse knowledge and among 
people who think differently, but who converge on 
the different paths that lead to recognizing, valuing, 
and respecting the sense of human transcendence 
and the essential dignity of every person.From these actions an authentic sense of identity 
emerges, since it is the sphere of identification 
around experiences and values that constitute the 
ethos, the common dwelling place, the physical 
and spiritual space that is shared with others.  It 
is important, in turn, in the context of a profound 
change of era, that the Catholic identity of the 
university is also nourished by a theological 
reflection which is rooted in and in dialogue 
with the present history. A permanent challenge 
for the university is to create these spaces and 
the conditions to cultivate these dialogues and 
encounters.
5. Pastoral Constitution of the Second Vatican Council Gaudium et spes 
(1963), No. 36.conscience. Thanks to its distinctive educational 
project, our university has trained professionals, 
artists, scientists and humanists of excellence and 
has contributed to the development of all areas of 
knowledge. In addition, the university has sought to 
contribute through the comprehensive training of 
people, based on Christian principles and with the 
vision provided by the different areas of knowledge.
The Universidad Católica works with the conviction 
that the dignity of the person in the image and 
likeness of God, the promotion of the family, the 
search for justice in all areas and the recognition 
of the importance of nature make up an authentic 
“human ecology”3 that promotes the common 
good, social peace and, ultimately, the salvation of 
people. As a challenge, the relationship of the person 
with nature, society, culture, and transcendence 
demands a renewed integral service to the country.
Pope Francis calls us to become aware that we 
are all in the same boat, in the same university, 
in the same country, in the same humanity and 
that no one can be saved alone, inviting us to “a 
new dream of fraternity and social friendship that 
is not just words”4. In the UC we feel called in a 
special way to face a fraternal dialogue in view of 
the yearning for the common good that motivates 
us. Thus, we cannot be afraid to show who we are, 
since it is from our identity that we seek to build a 
more human and fraternal society.The integration of 
knowledge and the 
dialogue between 
reason and faith
The creation and transfer of knowledge is currently 
affected by the fragmentation of increasingly 
specialized disciplines and by the loss of the sense 
of truth, which is greater today by the misuse 
of social networks. The Universidad Católica, 
because of its adherence to the truth that is the 
person of Jesus Christ, and because of its vocation 
to universality as a Catholic university, is called 
to contribute decisively to the task of deepening a 
renewed integration of knowledge. This requires 
more collaborative work among the different 
disciplines and academic units, since the complex 
nature of truth requires work among all.“The dialogue of faith and 
reason must enlighten our 
institution in the sense of 
breadth, welcome, and 
identity, incorporating both 
aspects as two wings of 
 the best understanding 
 of knowledge”.
University Superior Council Day
3. Encyclical Letter of H.H. Francis on the Laudato si’ care for the 
common home (2015), No. 155.
4. Encyclical Letter of H.H. Francis on the Fratelli Tutti fraternity and 
social friendship (2020), n.6.

CATHOLIC IDENTITY21 20
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
ENHANCING THE WORK OF CAMPUS MINISTRY AND  
ITS SERVICE TO THE CHURCH
 /  Deepening pastoral lines of welcome and accompaniment, with 
special emphasis on the most vulnerable people of our community 
and members of other religious groups. 
 /  Offering support to the campus ministry of the diocese and of the 
country with concrete projects. 
 /  Collaborating reflectively and proactively in response to the needs 
of the Church (for example, in pastoral, ethical and anthropological 
formation, as well as in the promotion and recognition of the 
culture and the cultural and artistic heritage of the Church).OBJECTIVE / 3
Catholic identity:  
objectives and actions6. Declaration of Principles of the Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile (1979), No. I.1.
7. The Catholic Identity of the UC, 25 years after the Ex Corde 
Ecclesiae Apostolic Constitution (2017), page 10.The UC open to 
welcome everyone
The Universidad Católica is a human community 
that provides a fraternal welcome for all who work 
and study in it, whether they are believers or non-
believers. As part of its identity, the university 
welcomes people who, while not professing the 
Catholic faith, help in the search for truth. According 
to its Declaration of Principles, the Universidad 
Católica de Chile recognizes as its own the mission 
of “proclaiming the Gospel to all people and in all 
environments”6. “The UC, as a Catholic 
university, must be 
welcoming to all people”.
UC Dialogue / 2020The deepening of the 
UC imprint
Through its imprint, the university seeks to provide 
the members of its community with a hallmark 
that reflects the characteristics of its identity. 
Although this has been present in the institutional 
ideology for many years, in order to reinforce 
it, it is necessary to work on it, make it explicit, 
evaluate the current state of its implementation, 
and project it into the future.
The training of students is one of the fundamental 
missions of the university, which recognizes in 
general education a favorable space to advance 
in its achievement. In this effort, academics 
are very relevant and, therefore, the search for 
authentic teachers is essential. The criteria for the 
selection and promotion of professors, in addition 
to demanding high academic standards, must 
consider this dimension.
The imprint of the university, having permanent 
values that transcend in time, understands the 
era in which it lives and radiates towards it. Our 
challenge is that this imprint includes a critical 
spirit and the ability to dialogue with openness 
and foundation from the perspective of our faith, 
so that the members of our community and our 
graduates transfer these characteristics to the 
professional or scientific environment where they 
develop their careers.From this statement, it is evident that the university 
is an institution open to welcome all persons who 
respect our Catholic identity. From its university 
character, the Universidad Católica collaborates 
institutionally in society with a Christian presence 
in the world through the cultivation of pluralism 
and the valuing of the other in its own bosom.
Our university “derives its source of unity from its 
common consecration to the search for, discovery, 
and communication of truth, as well as from a 
shared vision of the dignity and transcendence 
of the human being. To this end, it takes special 
account of the example of the person and message 
of Christ which serves as inspiration for its 
witnessing mission in the world”7. The catholicity 
of the Church is an expression of the universality of 
salvation in Christ and, therefore, the Universidad 
Católica, as a portion of the Church, must witness 
to it and realize it in its own work.“We must work for our 
society from the identity  
of the UC”.
UC Dialogue / 2020REINFORCING THE UC IMPRINT IN THE UNIVERSITY
 /  Deepening the knowledge of the meaning of a Catholic 
university in the entire UC community.
 /  Forming a commission to analyze the presence of the UC 
imprint, especially in the academic field and linked to the 
General Education Plan.
 /  Developing seminars for professors that allow them to 
understand the meaning of the presence of theology  
in the university.OBJECTIVE / 4
Catholic identity:  
objectives and actions
UC COMMUNITY2.
An inclusive, welcoming and fraternal communityUniversity coexistenceA diverse community with a sense of belonging
Communication and transparency
T owards a culture of sustainability
UC COMMUNITY25 24
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
OBJECTIVE   / 1
UC Community:  
objectives and actions  
UC COMMUNITY
An inclusive, 
welcoming, and 
fraternal community
Our university community is made up of students, 
professors, professionals, and administrative 
staff. In addition, our alumni, who are called to 
become active agents of the educational project, 
contributing with their own experiences to the 
development of the university and enriching the 
various aspects of university life.
In addition to the above, the university must extend 
its vision to an even broader UC community, which 
also includes our campus neighbors, professional 
teams from the Research Centers, and members of 
the companies that live in our university spaces.
The care of the university community and of the 
Common Home, to which Pope Francis invites us 
in Laudato Si’, is at the center of our interest. As a 
university, we must take care of all its members and 
of the space we inhabit. A university community 
that promotes a culture of well-being, physically, 
mentally and socially, offers fertile ground for the 
excellent personal and professional development 
of all its members.MOVING TOWARDS A MORE INCLUSIVE, WELCOMING, 
AND FRATERNAL UNIVERSITY
 /  Promoting a university community that cares for, respects, 
and promotes the well-being of all its members, and 
welcomes and integrates all members of our extended 
community, with special emphasis on those who are joining 
UC for the first time.
 /  Promoting, through the use of our physical and virtual 
spaces, experiences of social contact and dialogue among 
the different members that make up our community.
 /  Strengthening the Alumni UC project, with the purpose 
of fostering the sense of belonging, identification, and 
commitment of graduates with the university.
With this as a permanent concern, the university 
has created new instances to meet, participate, and 
reflect. In this area, the creation of UC Dialoga in 
2014 and the University Forum in 2017 stand out, 
initiatives in which representatives of all groups 
that make up the university community participate. 
The Department of People, for example, has opened 
new instances of cross-cutting participation for the 
community. We understand that the efforts made 
must be strengthened and that we must create new 
spaces and formats for meeting and dialoguing, so 
that all members of the university community feel 
welcomed and especially recognized.“We are all different 
and we all have 
something to 
contribute, only in that 
way will we build a 
community”.
UC Dialogue / 2020
UC COMMUNITY27 26
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANUniversity 
coexistence
Maintaining a good and healthy internal 
coexistence, based on permanent respect for others, 
has become a growing concern and priority for the 
entire university community, as established in 
the report of the Search Committee for University 
President. The figure of the Ombuds, in charge of 
ensuring an adequate coexistence of all members 
of the community, is of great relevance to achieve 
this purpose.
Mention must me made of the work chaired by the 
Ombuds that, between 2018 and 2019, conducted a 
survey of the needs and critical situations in which 
we must intervene in a timely and decisive manner 
to promote a university climate where healthy 
coexistence, respect, good treatment and care for 
all people prevail. Along with valuing the progress 
in this area, we must recognize that coexistence has “University coexistence is 
dialogue, respect, focusing 
on the dignity of the person, 
promoting coexistence for 
the good of the other, for 
the good of the community, 
for one’s own good”.
University Superior Council Day
CARING FOR, RESPECTING, AND PROMOTING A  
HEALTHY COEXISTENCE AMONG ALL MEMBERS OF  
THE UC COMMUNITY
 /  Renewing and strengthening our university project around the 
promotion of healthy coexistence on campus and in the use of  
social networks, in accordance with a community that respects  
each other in all areas.
 /  Making visible and promoting the duties and rights of each member 
of the UC community in order to build healthy and fraternal human 
relationships.
 /  Designing and implementing policies and initiatives that 
comprehensively seek the well-being of all members of the 
community.OBJECTIVE / 2
UC Community:  
objectives and actionsexpanded and affected in a very relevant way in the 
field of social networks, where it is urgent to train 
and intervene so that the new platforms are perceived 
as tools at the service of healthy relationships.
Other initiatives of special relevance implemented 
in recent years are the Honor Code and the Academic 
Integrity Policy, which seek to establish common 
bases of respect and coexistence.
Our concern is to build a community that, as a 
whole, ensures the well-being of each and every 
one of its members. This well-being must cover all 
areas of university life and the health and quality 
of life of people, providing integral and mental 
health, healthy food and infrastructure and spaces 
for sports and recreation.
A diverse community 
with a sense of 
belonging
We are a diverse and ever-changing community, 
significantly influenced by the challenges facing 
the world and our country. This demands concrete 
responses from us, especially at the level of our 
coexistence, where dialogue and empathy must 
be key elements to be considered in order to 
understand the diverse points of view and act with 
respect and tolerance. As Pope Francis pointed out 
during his visit to the UC, “it is urgent to generate 
spaces where fragmentation is not the dominant 
scheme, even of thought; for this it is necessary to 
teach to think what one feels and does; to feel what 
one thinks and does; to do what one thinks and 
feels. A dynamism of capacities at the service of the 
person and of society”.8
Responding to this call, we promote coexistence in 
diversity. A community that values and respects the 
participation of all actors, in which all immigrants, 
representatives of native peoples, and people with 
disabilities, among others, are encouraged and 
welcomed as active participants. Without this 
desired inclusion it would not be possible to think 
of a healthy coexistence and good treatment among 
all members of our community.
The next five years should be open to new meeting 
spaces that refresh our internal culture and 
promote a sense of belonging and identification 
with the UC. These should take place in different 
instances, considering the stages of the life cycle of 
students, professors, professionals, administrators, 
and alumni. These rites should actively involve our 
immediate community, campus neighbors, and 
the extended families of those who are part of our 
community. 
8. Speech of H.H. Francis during his visit to the Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile (January 17, 2018).“Dignity and respect 
for the individual is 
fundamental to building 
community and country”.
UC Dialogue / 2020
UC COMMUNITY29 28
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANCommunication  
and transparency
To promote a sense of community and belonging to 
it, communication and transparency are essential. A 
community that communicates, that informs and is 
informed, that is transparent to its members and to 
society, in a bidirectional manner, can build common 
bridges of growth and integral development.
Transparency must be guaranteed in a serious, 
orderly and committed manner, through a policy 
that establishes principles, guidelines, objectives, 
and standards and helps to improve management. 
So far, important efforts have been made in the UC, 
but it is necessary to advance to the next level.PROMOTING COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPARENCY
 /  Strengthening our communication strategy leading to a more informed 
community and strengthening the role of the UC as a reference in the 
discussion of national issues.
 /  Promoting that the institutional management, at all levels, has the 
necessary tools that allow its leaders to communicate effectively and 
transparently with the members of the community. 
 /  Developing a policy and plan to promote greater transparency 
within the UC. This will enhance the sense of community, 
showing why, how and who is affected by the decisions made at 
the central and local levels of the university.OBJECTIVE / 3
UC Community:  
objectives and actionsTowards a culture of 
sustainability
In all these efforts, we will continue to build a 
culture of sustainability, strengthening the work 
already done through the Sustainability Department 
and the Sustainability Chair. This challenge requires 
a university community that is informed, educated 
and sensitized about the different sides of the socio-
environmental crisis and the ways in which it is 
possible to contribute to its solution. This implies 
safeguarding good living within the university, 
ensuring inclusion, equity, gender equity, safety, 
health and quality of work and student life, and the 
adoption of environmentally benign habits, also 
considering an intercultural context. To do so, it 
will seek to have spaces for training, participation, 
involvement and dialogue for students, faculty, staff 
and employees, which strongly promote a culture 
of sustainability that becomes an essential and 
distinctive aspect of the UC imprint.
Pope Francis points out that “there are not two 
separate crises, one environmental and the other 
social, but a single, complex socio-environmental 
crisis. The courses of action require an integral 
approach to combat poverty, restore dignity to the 
excluded, and care for nature”9.
Thus, in this new road map, the call of St. John 
Paul II in Ex Corde Ecclesiae becomes evident: “The 
university community is animated by a spirit of 
freedom and charity, and is characterized by mutual 
respect, sincere dialogue and the protection of the 
rights of each individual. It helps all its members to 
reach their fullness as human persons. Each member 
of the community, in turn, helps to promote unity 
and contributes, according to his own responsibility 
and capacity, to the decisions that concern the 
community itself, as well as to maintain and to 
reinforce the Catholic character of the institution”10.
DEVELOPING A CULTURE  
OF SUSTAINABILITY
 /  Creating spaces for training, participation and dialogue so that 
the entire UC community promotes a culture of sustainability 
as part of the graduate profile.
 /  Transforming sustainability into a priority area and transversal 
to all disciplines cultivated in the UC, conceiving research 
as an essential way to generate solutions to the socio-
environmental crisis and contribute to the development of 
public policies together with other institutions.
 /  Promoting the sustainable management of campuses, 
increasing sustainability standards in infrastructure, energy 
management and transportation, among other daily habits.OBJECTIVE / 4
UC Community:  
objectives and actions“A community is built on 
dialogue and this dialogue 
must be of all its parts, not 
just some of them”.
UC Dialogue / 2020
9. Encyclical Letter of H.H. Francis on care for the common home 
Laudato si’ (2015).
10. Ex Corde Ecclesiae No. 21.

UNIVERSITY  
GOVERNANCE3.
Structure of academic programs UC’s Academic Structure
Bylaws and regulations
UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE33 32
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANUNIVERSITY 
GOVERNANCE
The Universidad Católica is a higher education 
institution that stands out for its academic quality, 
its contribution to the country, its leadership in 
innovation and its management. This is endorsed in 
the institutional accreditation report of the Chilean 
Accreditation Commission CNA11, in its 7 years of 
accreditation and in the position it occupies in 
international rankings. The quality and prestige 
of the UC is the result of the efforts of talented 
students, first class professors and a group of 
professionals and administrators who for years 
have worked with excellence, as well as a university 
structure and governance that has favored, until 
now, the development and quality of our institution.
The great changes that society has undergone and 
the new challenges facing the university require us 
to review our structure and governance in depth. 
We need an academic and management structure 
that fosters collaboration and flexibility, in keeping 
with the new times. In this line, the integration 
initiatives that have been recently proposed are 
the beginning of a networked and more integrated 
work towards which we are moving.UC’s Academic 
Structure
The academic structure we have today is the result 
of the university reform of the late sixties, where 
we moved from a teaching university to a research 
university. In these five decades, the world and 
our country have changed drastically. Today there 
is full consensus that the great challenges facing 
humanity must be addressed in a collaborative 
and multidisciplinary way, which imposes on us 
the need to review how we carry out our training 
programs, the form and focus of our research, and 
our public role.
The academic structure has a strong impact on 
our educational project, on the programs we offer, 
and on the way we train future scientists, artists, 
humanists and professionals. At present, this 
structure makes it difficult to make timely changes 
to our educational offerings. Every day it becomes 
more evident that today’s challenges, in the areas of 
teaching, research and public engagement, cannot 
be fully assumed with a structure and operation 
designed to face a reality that is already past.
11.  Institutional Accreditation Resolution No. 473 of the National Accreditation Commission, January 2019.“We want to integrate, break 
down barriers and structures 
that don’t allow us to work well”.
University Superior Council Day

UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE35 34
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN“We must establish 
collaborative learning 
networks among teachers”.
UC Dialogue / 2020
“Es importante que las 
unidades académicas 
comiencen a funcionar de 
manera más integrada”
Jornada Honorable Consejo SuperiorREVIEWING THE STRUCTURE AND GOVERNANCE OF THE 
UNIVERSITY IN ORDER TO MOVE TOWARDS GREATER 
INTEGRATION, MORE INTERDISCIPLINARY WORK, GREATER 
COLLABORATION AND GREATER SYNERGY
 /  Designing an academic management model that allows for the 
alleviation of the internal structures of the faculties.
 /  Implementing intra and inter-faculty integration initiatives that 
promote collaboration and coordination of academic  
management based on major areas of knowledge. 
 /  Ensuring that the standards, academic requirements, 
management modalities and distribution of resources are 
similar among the different academic units.OBJECTIVE / 1
University governance:  
objectives and actions
On the other hand, the university has voluntarily 
submitted itself to reviews by international 
peers who have evaluated the operation and 
development of different areas of its work. This 
exercise, which has been carried out at the level 
of the Superior Direction, faculties, schools and 
institutes and even in some programs, has allowed 
us to improve in many academic and management processes and has identified weaknesses precisely 
in our academic structure. In this line, one of the 
recurring recommendations that have emerged 
from these visits is related to the atomization of our 
academic activity, a diagnosis that is shared within 
the university. Our compartmentalized structure 
has hindered, in many cases, the operation, 
consolidation and development of important 
interdisciplinary initiatives created in recent years.
To avoid the atomization that has occurred globally 
in higher education as a result of the scientific 
advances of the 20th century and the trend towards 
hyper-specialization, the university has carried 
out important initiatives in the last 20 years.These include the introduction of the 
General Education Plan, the establishment of 
interdisciplinary centers and programs, and the 
creation of the College program - which promotes 
multidisciplinary training, as well as the creation of 
shared positions and appointments among faculties. 
More recently, interdisciplinary academic units have 
been created to respond to current needs and build 
bridges between disciplines. Our challenge for the 
coming years will be to move towards a higher stage 
of collaboration between academic units that seeks, 
on the one hand, greater integration of knowledge 
and, on the other, better academic management.
A commission of the University Superior Council 
proposed that a revision of the academic structure 
should start from the disciplinary base of the 
university, which is in the institutes, schools, and 
monodisciplinary faculties. In recent years, four 
new disciplinary and five interdisciplinary schools 
and institutes have been added to these academic 
units. Both the recently created Institute for 
Sustainable Development and the future Institute 
of Applied Ethics, which is in the process of being 
created, are cross-cutting initiatives that involve all 
the academic units of the university and respond to 
the current needs of our institutional identity.The structural changes that the university will 
undertake in the coming years should be aimed 
at fostering collaboration among academics, 
facilitating interdisciplinary and collective creation. 
International evidence shows that these processes 
of revision and restructuring are complex and must 
be gradual and participatory, so instances such as 
UC Dialoga and the University Forum are especially 
important for the community to participate and 
reflect on how to carry them out. 
“We need an 
organizational change, 
where in our goals we 
share best practices to 
other faculties”.
UC Dialogue / 2020

UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE37 36
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANSome of the proposals put forward in this axis 
are processes that require important cultural 
changes within the university, so they have a 
projection beyond the period of this plan. The 
Science 2030 project, which strengthens the 
collaborative academic work of five faculties, is a 
model that should be followed and replicated by 
other faculties. Along these lines, the university 
will support, as resources permit, initiatives that 
promote collaboration and reduce the atomization 
of academic work.
On this path towards greater collaboration within 
the university, it is important to highlight the 
integration initiatives that have recently been 
proposed. The objective of these initiatives is 
to join efforts and integrate activities that are 
carried out in the various areas of the Superior 
Direction together with the academic units. The 
first measures have already been defined and we 
must work to achieve their correct implementation 
in order to advance towards a more integrated and 
streamlined functioning of the university’s work.Structure of 
academic programs
A structure that promotes collaboration among 
academics will generate more and better 
conditions for the creation of new programs with 
a multidisciplinary outlook. The new General 
Education Plan approved in 2019 is an important step 
in this direction. The next step will be the review of 
all our undergraduate programs, identifying parts 
of the curricula that can be constituted into majors 
and minors, so as to move towards a College-type 
structure. With this we will be able to promote 
greater curricular flexibility in the different degree 
programs, allowing students to take minors from 
other programs as part of their curriculum and not 
as part of their general education.
This academic architecture should also have an 
impact on graduate programs, optimizing the 
use of installed capacities. In the master’s degree 
programs, this should lead to growth based on 
the diversification of an innovative and attractive 
interdisciplinary offer. A change in the academic 
structure is expected to improve and strengthen 
coordination and collaboration, establishing 
policies for the expeditious transfer of credits, 
courses and students. The recently created Graduate 
School should complete an in-depth analysis of 
UC doctoral training, reviewing the adequacy of 
the number, structure and governance of current 
PhD programs, where atomization is high and 
knowledge integration is low. A reorganization 
at this level should lay the groundwork for the 
establishment of spaces that allow a better training 
of our doctoral students, preparing them for work 
in academia and also in the non-academic world.In turn, this should enhance and diversify the 
opportunities for collaboration of our academics 
with a view to the contributions made to the 
country. It is expected that the changes will produce 
not only an increase in the number of doctoral 
students, but also that thesis work will address 
areas of disciplinary frontiers and emerging topics.
Statutes  
and regulations
The university’s statutes and general norms, 
together with the various regulations in force, are 
fundamental elements of university governance. 
Our work is governed by a set of 214 general and 
specific regulations, 18 faculty statutes and 25 
academic unit regulations, several of which require 
revision and updating.
As a goal for the next five years, we will review 
those regulations that were promulgated 40 years 
ago and have not been modified, such as the 
Declaration of Principles of 1979 and the General 
Statutes of 1982. We will work to update these 
documents to adapt them to today’s university. 
In addition, we will make adjustments to internal 
regulations as necessary to implement future 
changes in structure and governance as they are 
implemented.MOVING TOWARDS GREATER FLEXIBILITY OF 
ACADEMIC PROGRAMS THROUGH CHANGES  
IN THEIR STRUCTURE
 /  Making decisive progress so that undergraduate 
programs are structured in the College modality, with 
majors and minors, which allow and encourage greater 
curricular flexibility in the different programs.
 /  Setting up an academic governance structure for the 
master’s degree programs in order to achieve better 
coordination and greater collaboration to promote 
their growth based on the diversification of the 
interdisciplinary offer, making better use of existing 
capacities and establishing policies for the transfer of 
credits, courses, and students.
 /  Reviewing the current governance of the PhD programs 
with the purpose of reorganizing and establishing 
spaces for greater collaboration between students and 
academics from different faculties.OBJECTIVE / 2
University governance:  
objectives and actions
“The atomization 
 of knowledge slows 
 down research”.
University Superior Council DayUPDATING REGULATIONS AND STATUTES IN LIGHT OF THE 
CHANGES AND NEW CHALLENGES FACING THE UNIVERSITY
 /  Reviewing the university’s fundamental regulations and norms and 
make changes in internal regulations that allow for the implementation 
of changes in the structure, governance, and management of the 
university.
 /  Modifying the composition of the University Superior Council to 
incorporate representatives of the institutes and schools, alumni, and 
the administrative and professional staff.
 /  Strengthening the autonomy of the University General Secretariat 
and provide it with the necessary resources and means to carry 
out its task diligently and efficiently.OBJECTIVE / 3
University governance:  
objectives and actions
In the short term, we will propose a modification 
of the General Statutes to change the composition 
of the University Superior Council, in order to 
incorporate representatives of the interdisciplinary 
institutes and schools, alumni, administrative and 
professional bodies.

ACADEMIC  
CHALLENGES AND 
INNOVATIONS4.
Educational projectDigital challenges and academic management Academic development and gender equity
Academic integrity
Quality assurance Student development and university life
ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS41 40
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANACADEMIC CHALLENGES 
AND INNOVATIONS
In the last decade, the university has significantly 
broadened the spectrum of concerns and areas 
of action related to its educational project. 
Safeguarding its coherence and balance, while 
maintaining fidelity to our institutional identity and 
setting as a horizon to serve society and the country 
imposes new challenges of a cross-cutting nature. 
In the coming years we will continue to promote 
inclusion, internationalization, interdisciplinary 
and sustainability projects, but giving special 
priority to digital development, academic integrity 
and gender equity. In all these projects and 
challenges, students are and will continue to be the 
center of our actions and concerns.
Educational project
In this line, our main purpose will be to update, 
improve, and communicate the educational project, 
strengthening our commitment to the training of 
people capable of assuming the new challenges that 
we are facing as a society and global community. 
The educational project must start from the 
mission, principles and values of the Universidad 
Católica, promoting, based on them, a vision of 
building a society where virtues such as solidarity, 
justice, peace, and respect for diversity, gender 
equity, and care for the common home prevail. In relation to the curricular framework, we will seek 
to move towards creative designs and redesigns 
that allow greater levels of flexibility and autonomy 
for students, greater possibilities of articulation 
between programs and between different academic 
levels, enhancing interdisciplinary crossings, and 
training that promotes the achievement of lifelong 
learning and skills. As mentioned in the axis of 
University Governance, we will work with academic 
units to promote a curricular model with majors 
and minors that are equivalent among different 
programs, which will facilitate the development 
of more flexible academic programs and a cross-
cutting curricular design for the entire university.“To have a solid and 
transversal ethical 
training, which goes 
beyond a single 
course…which is 
embodied in each of 
the formative stages”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020STRENGTHENING OUR EDUCATIONAL PROJECT
 /  Updating and improving the educational project and 
implementing the new General Education Plan. 
 /  Defining innovative curricular frameworks, promoting 
pedagogies that favor deep learning, through flexible 
curricular designs, articulation between programs, 
intermediate exits and internationalization at home.
 /  Developing a communication plan to sensitize the 
administrative and professional staff about their role in  
the educational project. OBJECTIVE / 1
Academic challenges:  
objectives and actionsDuring the next five-year period, the new General 
Education Plan will be implemented and high-
impact teaching practices will be strengthened, 
including the Service Learning program (A+S), 
and the undergraduate research initiatives and 
collaborative work, all with the aim of advancing 
our purpose of educating free, complete, and 
educated people, who are committed, aware and 
upright citizens, so that they become true agents 
of change in the service of others. The new General 
Education Plan, approved in 2019, has distinctive 
characteristics, such as the structured curricular 
flexibility, the integration in the curriculum, the 
development of superior academic skills in students 
and enhancement of their communication skills, 
a strong interdisciplinary emphasis, own courses, 
evaluation and monitoring mechanisms and the 
establishment of an academic and management 
leadership that allows the development of the 
committed purposes.
On the other hand, both interculturality and the new 
internationalization policies will be used to enrich academic trajectories through education in values 
and diversity for citizenship training. In addition, 
procedures for the recognition of learning will be 
promoted, such as validation, prior knowledge 
exams, and the use of internationalization at home.
All the aforementioned challenges, and those that 
will be presented later, imply the joint work of 
the different actors of the community as agents 
and participants of the common objective of our 
educational project: the comprehensive training of 
people. In order for administrative and professional 
staff to be committed to this objective, it will 
be necessary to provide them with training and 
education opportunities, so that they share a 
common vision that contributes to the learning of 
the entire university community.
 “Train and educate now, to see 
changes in the future”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS43 42
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANDigital challenges 
and academic 
management
The updating and improvement of the educational 
project requires that the innovation associated 
with the new digital challenges has a meaning 
and is linked to the learning, values, and student 
experiences that it seeks to promote. In this line, 
we will seek to enhance the interaction between 
academics and students, enriching face-to-face 
spaces and taking advantage of the enormous 
potential of digital tools and methodologies. This 
requires a teacher training and improvement plan, 
as well as the creation of a new digital environment 
that includes the design and progressive adaptation 
of new educational spaces in classrooms, 
workshops, laboratories and libraries, combining 
physical and digital infrastructure, as well as the 
necessary management support for the updating 
and improvement of the educational project.Taking on the new digital challenges in terms of 
the progressive reconfiguration of educational 
spaces invites us to reflect on complementary 
aspects such as the duration of class modules and 
academic periods, in order to adapt them to this 
new scenario.
With the support of its professional teams and a new 
digital environment, Office of the Vice President for 
Academic Affairs will work to improve management 
in all areas of its competence and its coordination 
with the academic units. In particular, we expect 
to advance in the coordination of master’s degree 
programs, in order to strengthen them as a whole 
and in areas that go beyond processes associated 
with self-evaluation, accreditation, monitoring of 
improvement plans and curricular development.
PROMOTING STUDENT LEARNING AND EXPERIENCES 
THROUGH NEW DIGITAL TOOLS AND METHODOLOGIES
 /  Designing a digital environment that includes curricular 
information systems, learning management and evaluation, to 
facilitate student learning and curricular progression. Providing 
training support to teachers and students in the use of digital 
tools for teaching. 
 /  Studying the length of class modules and the possible 
redefinition of the length of academic periods.
 /  Optimizing administrative and academic management 
processes, adapting work platforms and ensuring efficient 
access to information for better academic management.OBJECTIVE / 2
Academic challenges:  
objectives and actions“Teaching that incorporates 
new virtual methodologies and 
Learning and Service”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS45 44
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANAcademic 
development and 
gender equity
In order to strengthen its educational project, the 
university must promote the integral development 
of its academic staff. The implementation of the 
new special staff and, particularly, the reduction of 
the gender gap between male and female academics 
are part of our challenges. Regarding the special 
academic staff, it is necessary to complete their 
installation process in all units in order to promote 
their academic careers.
Another important milestone in the development 
of the academic career has been the creation of 
the Office of Gender Equality. The purpose of this 
new unit is to promote the academic development 
of women and generate the conditions to 
incorporate gender equity in the integral project of 
the university. This new department will promote 
the design and implementation of policies that 
address historical biases, quality of life and the 
updating of policies for the reconciliation of work, 
personal and family life, in order to ensure an 
adequate insertion, well-being, and subsequent 
trajectory of our academics. On the other hand, 
we will promote the renewal of complementary 
norms that give space and value to academic 
management and activities related to the society.INTEGRAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE 
ACADEMIC STAFF AND GENDER EQUITY
 /  Developing policies and strategies to ensure gender-balanced 
hiring in the academic staff and promoting the retention of 
professors, especially female and foreign academics.
 /  Developing a policy for the development of the special 
academic staff and mechanisms to encourage and recognize 
academics from the different departments for their teaching 
performance.
 /  Updating the teaching evaluation so that it considers the 
guiding principles of the educational project and academic 
integrity with a formative focus, together with promoting 
complementary norms that give due recognition to 
academic management and social outreach activities.OBJECTIVE / 3
Academic challenges:  
objectives and actions
Given that the updating of the educational project 
involves a series of new challenges, it will be 
necessary to communicate them effectively to the 
entire academic body, providing the necessary 
support for their full implementation through 
workshops and different types of resources.“Gender equity cannot 
remain as an isolated 
headline; it must be 
present on a permanent 
basis. The impact 
on the quality of life, 
dignity, recognition 
and development of 
thousands of women 
depends on the strength 
we put on this issue”.
University Superior Council DayAcademic integrity
As part of an educational project based on the 
principles and values of the Universidad Católica, 
the academic work and learning of our students 
must be carried out within a framework of 
academic and ethical integrity. These aspects are 
a fundamental part of the comprehensive training 
of persons and, in their promotion, professors and 
assistants play an essential role. We must generate 
and promote actions aimed at creating a culture of 
integrity within the university.
Academic integrity is understood as acting with 
the values of honesty, truthfulness, trust, justice, 
respect and responsibility in all areas that involve university training. It is expected that all members 
of the UC Community act in accordance with these 
values, being role models for their environment.
To strengthen academic integrity, collaborative 
work among peers should be encouraged rather than 
being guided by a competitive and individualistic 
logic. A great challenge in this line is to promote 
more instances of joint work for research, 
publication and teaching. For example, encouraging 
professors in the same department or in the same 
field to have time and incentives to teach together 
and to have more coordination spaces.
STRENGTHENING AND PROMOTING 
THE CULTURE OF ACADEMIC INTEGRITY 
AND QUALITY ASSURANCE WITHIN  
THE UNIVERSITY
 /  Developing and implementing policies and guidelines aimed 
at promoting academic integrity within the University.
 /  Creating more instances of joint work among academics 
for research, publication and teaching, in order to foster 
collaboration among peers and thus strengthening  
academic integrity.
 /  Establishing an institutional policy and model for continuous 
quality improvement and innovation in all dimensions of 
university activities and involving the entire community  
in this purpose.OBJECTIVE / 4
Academic challenges:  
objectives and actions  

ACADEMIC CHALLENGES AND INNOVATIONS47 46
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANQuality assurance
The Universidad Católica has a strong commitment 
to excellence, which is reflected in its various 
policies, processes and quality assurance 
mechanisms in each of its areas of action. This 
effort, which has been built over the years by all 
members of the community, has allowed our 
university to be widely recognized for its academic 
results. In the coming years we must implement 
an internal quality assurance system and foster 
a culture of continuous improvement within 
the university, in line with the country’s higher 
education policies. This system should consider 
processes, results, and indicators associated 
with teaching, research, management, and links 
with society, academic integrity, inclusion and 
internationalization, among other fundamental 
aspects for the development of the university, and 
should be linked to the UC Development Plan and 
the strategic plans of the academic units.
Student development 
and university life
Along with adjusting the graduate profile to the 
new needs, the future update of the educational 
project will invite us to take a close look at the 
admission profile and the changes that have been 
generated by the equity and inclusion initiatives. 
In the next five years, we will study and work 
on new types of admission, leveling and student 
support for an effective graduation, expanding 
and strengthening the accompaniment of students 
who enter through the different equity channels 
provided by the university. These initiatives 
and projects are addressed in the Expanding 
Opportunities axis of this plan.STRENGTHENING THE ACCOMPANIMENT  
AND SUPPORT OF STUDENTS
 /  Reviewing and modify academic placement 
systems to improve timely graduation and 
student retention.  
 /  Developing systems of accompaniment, tutoring 
and counseling for students.
 /  Promoting student wellness policies, with particular 
emphasis on physical and mental health.OBJECTIVE / 5
Academic challenges:  
objectives and actions
“Enhancing the 
university experience is a 
fundamental pillar in the 
comprehensive training 
of students. Volunteering, 
student centers, university 
policy, among others, 
are an essential part of 
university life and allow 
us to generate meeting 
points between the various 
careers and disciplines”.
University Superior Council Day
In addition to the above, there is the need to 
understand that the university experience must 
be an integral part of the educational project and 
contribute to coexistence based on respect for the 
dignity and identity of each person, an aspect that 
has been addressed in the UC Community axis as a 
priority for the coming years. In turn, it is necessary 
to value and recognize the co-curricular work 
and promote the good development of university 
life. This should be characterized by an inclusive 
hallmark, which values diversity, and should 
develop in a framework that promotes the general 
welfare of students with particular emphasis on 
their physical and mental health.

RESEARCH 
AND CREATION5.
Creation and transfer of frontier knowledge
Network of Regional Centers and Stations
Graduate School
RESEARCH AND CREATION51 50
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANRESEARCH  
AND CREATION
Research and creation in all its forms and its transfer 
to society is an essential part of our university 
work. It is through this task that the university 
contributes to culture and to the resolution of 
urgent and complex problems of society. Doctoral 
training contributes to multiplying the university’s 
contribution through other institutions and the 
productive capacity of the country.
Research should be part of the identity of our 
university training, which should be nurtured 
through close contact with society, including 
the private and public sectors, the articulation 
of global networks and throughout the territory, 
and should be reflected in an effective transfer 
of knowledge generated both in the country and 
from Chile to the world.
While it is true that much progress has been made 
in recent years in collaborative and interdisciplinary 
research and innovation, basic disciplinary research 
is and will continue to be a solid foundation 
underpinning these recent advances.Creation and transfer of 
frontier knowledge
As part of its mission, the Universidad Católica 
seeks to be a relevant actor in the creation and 
transfer of frontier knowledge, which allows it to 
contribute to the solution of large and complex 
problems of society. The university’s important 
advances in this field have been sustained, in 
recent years, by a much more diversified research 
and creative activity in the different fields of the 
sciences, humanities and the arts. This is reflected 
in its participation in a wide range of national 
funds, especially FONDECYT and FONDEF projects. In addition, it should be noted that the UC 
participates in 22 Centers of Excellence and has 
secured private and international resources to 
finance projects, which has allowed it, among other 
things, to develop a Network of Regional Centers 
and Stations.
For the next five years, the challenge is to seek new 
forms of financing, either through donations and 
private funds or by increasing access to international 
funds and networks, given the stagnation of public 
financing. Substantial progress must also be made 
in the development of the postdoctoral profession, 
together with a regulatory and management system 
that will allow its growth and expansion.
In transfer and innovation, the university is the 
leader in patent applications in Chile and has been 
awarded for its progress in technology transfer, 
innovation and entrepreneurship. To continue advancing, greater integration from research to 
transfer is required, optimizing management and 
facilitating the work with academic units, in a 
more efficient and agile way.
In addition, we aspire to be a national reference 
in the dissemination and valuation of science, 
humanities and arts, and knowledge in all its 
fields. To accomplish this, the creation of a unit for 
scientific dissemination and education within the 
Office of the Vice President for Research will bring 
the university’s research work closer to society. 
This new structure should also support and nurture 
the study plans and strengthen the capacities for 
dissemination and communication of science of 
master’s and doctoral students, as well as the 
academic staff.“A big challenge is to 
conduct research that 
makes public sense”.
 University Superior Council Day“Today’s problems are 
increasingly complex and 
require interdisciplinarity”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
“It is essential to 
promote science 
outreach, to 
disseminate and 
educate in science”.
University Superior Council Day
DEEPENING THE UNIVERSITY’S RESEARCH WORK
 /  Promoting interdisciplinarity and sustainability for the 
great challenges in research and creation, fostering the 
development of centers of excellence and being active in 
contributions to public policies.
 /  Implementing strategies for financing research and creation 
through an active search for international and private funds 
and donations, which will allow us to promote their growth, as 
well as their linkage and impact on society.
 /  Creating a structure within the Office of the Vice President for 
Research for the dissemination and education of science to 
reach all citizens, bringing closer the work developed by the 
university in its public commitment.OBJECTIVE / 1
Research and creation: 
objectives and actions

RESEARCH AND CREATION53 52
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Network of Regional 
Centers and Stations
In the coming years, we expect that the Network 
of Regional Centers and Stations (RCER-UC) 
to have a sustainable management model that 
allows effective linkages with national and foreign 
partners. This platform, together with the timely 
and systematic identification of international 
funds and the strengthening of strategic networks, 
should facilitate the development of international 
projects.
In addition, we expect to form a network of 
Networks of Territorial Centers and Stations along 
the Pacific, which will allow frontier research to be 
carried out at all latitudes.STRENGTHENING THE NETWORK OF REGIONAL CENTERS 
AND STATIONS (RCER) AS A GATEWAY TO THE TERRITORY 
AND TO INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH LINKED TO OUR 
UNIVERSITY
 /  Installing, making visible and strengthening the RCER within the 
UC, increasing the participation of the faculties and incorporating 
artistic creation and humanities, in order to highlight the potential 
that this network offers as an integrated platform.
 /  Defining a management model based on different sources of 
financing, in order to provide economic sustainability over time.
 /  Developing a broad strategic linkage, through the definition  
and implementation of a plan to incorporate national and 
international strategic partners.
“The presence of 
research in the territory 
opens us to the 
communities, allows 
us to deliver direct 
knowledge to the 
regions and is a pole of 
international attraction”.
University Superior Council DayOBJECTIVE / 2
Research and creation: 
objectives and actions  
RESEARCH AND CREATION55 54
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANGraduate School 
As a result of the greater complexity of the research 
carried out at the university and its doctoral 
training, in recent years important changes have 
been implemented in its institutional framework 
and in the support and management structures 
in this area. The university promoted the creation 
of the College of Doctoral Programs, which gave 
rise to the Graduate School, whose purpose is to 
strengthen and develop doctoral training at the UC. 
The aim is to establish the basis for strengthening 
interdisciplinarity and cooperation between different 
academic units.There is no doubt that the university has made 
substantial progress in the area of its PhD 
programs, focusing, among other things, on the 
students’ experience and enriching their training 
and labor insertion. The creation of the Graduate 
School is an important milestone in this effort 
and we hope that in the coming years it will be 
fully established and will allow us, together with 
the academic units, to take important steps in the 
development of this activity.
CONSOLIDATING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF  
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL FOR THE STRATEGIC 
DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED TRAINING OF  
RESEARCHERS IN THE SERVICE OF A BETTER SOCIETY
 /  Completing the installation of the Graduate School and 
implementing a doctoral management model based on broad 
areas of knowledge, strengthening the role of the Advisory 
Council.
 /  Enhancing the training experience of UC doctoral students, 
strengthening access to interdisciplinary research infrastructure 
of territorial scope.
 /  Reducing the barriers for attracting international talent to the 
UC PhD programs, emphasizing positioning actions in the Asia-
Pacific region and Africa.OBJECTIVE / 3
Research and creation: 
objectives and actions  On the other hand, one of the main objectives of the 
Graduate School is to position the UC as a leading 
institution in Latin America in the advanced 
training of researchers, capable of addressing 
global challenges from an interdisciplinary and 
innovative perspective, committed to knowledge 
and the development of an equitable, inclusive 
and sustainable society. To do so, it is essential 
that the UC becomes a pole of attraction for talent 
throughout the region and that it attracts the 
resources for its development.
It is important to recognize that the training of 
advanced human capital in Chile faces great new 
challenges. On the one hand, the increase in the 
supply of programs and the limited state funding 
is compounded by the difficulties to develop an 
academic career in the country. This goes hand 
in hand with the recent awareness and need to 
incorporate more PhDs into the public and private 
sector in Chile. To face these challenges in a 
comprehensive manner, it is necessary for the 
programs to have institutional support and focus. 
This effort should take advantage of the strengths 
that the UC has in terms of enhancing existing 
links with the public and private sector, which 
allow strengthening these programs and attract 
talent and resources for doctoral training.
PROMOTING THE TRAINING OF PHD GRADUATES 
CAPABLE OF ENTERING THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE 
SECTORS, THROUGH AN INNOVATIVE PHD PROGRAMS 
MODEL WITH INDUSTRY AND THE PUBLIC SECTOR
 /  Promoting the vocation of public service, care for others 
and ethical conduct as the cornerstones of UC doctoral 
training, strengthening training in public policy and the 
dissemination and education of science, the humanities 
and the arts.
 /  Implementing an expanded doctoral model with the 
industry and the public sector in the technological, 
scientific, health, and social fields.
 /  Strengthening the transversal skills program in the 
different areas of knowledge, enhancing insertion  
in the private and public sector.OBJECTIVE / 4
Research and creation: 
objectives and actions  
“It is essential to link 
research to society, 
 to industry”
La UC Dialoga / 2020
DEEPENING  
INTERNATIONALIZATION6.
Global, cross-cutting, and inclusive training
Institutionalization of global affairs Strategic engagementInternational collaboration in research and creationAccompanying the intra- and extra-border community and linkage with foreign students
59 58
DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANESTABLISHING OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT  
FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
 /  Establishing the Office of the Vice President for 
International Affairs, articulating internationalization 
efforts previously isolated and located in multiple areas.
 /  Networking within the UC, with international affairs 
officers for each faculty, and developing an information 
management system.
 /  Defining and updating mobility, scholarship allocation 
and strategic linkage processes, and substantially 
streamlining the development and management of 
agreements with foreign universities and entities.
and develops our self-knowledge. It requires 
our students, academics, professionals and 
administrators to venture out of their comfort 
zone, to expose themselves to international peers; 
to dare to go beyond, and set goals and projects 
that otherwise would not happen.
For the next five years, our internationalization plan 
aims to create the conditions to expand the areas 
where it is not present today and to strengthen those 
where there is a long tradition of collaboration. The 
plan aims to provide a value proposition that responds 
to the needs and expectations of all members of the 
university community - undergraduate and graduate 
students, national and foreign academics, postdocs, 
managers, international relations teams of academic 
units, professionals and administrative staff - 
and other stakeholder groups, including resident 
directors and international affairs offices of foreign 
universities in Chile, government institutions and 
national and foreign donors.
Institutionalization  
of global affairs
With the creation of the Office of the Vice President 
for International Affairs in 2020, the university 
ratifies this axis, already included in the previous 
plan, and its deep commitment to install a 
culture of internationalization in its community. 
This vice president´s office will articulate the 
internationalization efforts previously managed in DEEPENING  
INTERNATIONALIZATION
The internationalization of a university is crucial 
for its development and reflects the quality of the 
institution, particularly in a global and multicultural 
world. Because of its nature and relevance, it has 
a significant impact on its activities of training 
people, creating scientific, humanistic, artistic and 
social knowledge, and transferring that knowledge 
to the national and international community. Thus, 
a university is expected to actively participate in 
the resolution of global challenges, together with 
its international partners.
At Universidad Católica we understand 
internationalization as a complex and long-term 
process that encompasses all our work. For this 
reason, and to install a culture of internationalization 
within the UC, the Office of the Vice President for 
International Affairs was created in 2020. This new 
unit is responsible for leading and executing the 
university’s international relations policies and 
is a very important step on the road to greater 
internationalization.“Internationalization 
allows us to embrace 
our mission and enables 
us to grow as individuals 
and as an institution”.
University Superior Council Day“The Office of the Vice 
President for International 
Affairs will allow us to be a 
more inclusive university, 
to be much more open-
minded and to generate a 
cultural change”. 
University Superior Council DayOBJECTIVE / 1
Deepening  
internationalization:  
objectives and actions
The Universidad Católica projects itself to the 
world as an institution with a public vocation, 
empathetic, and attentive to the concerns and 
needs of society. One of our main concerns in this 
area is to project ourselves as a Latin American pole 
of academic attraction, with a vast potential for 
cultural exchange and a great innovative capacity 
to transfer knowledge. All this hand in hand with 
our essence, a Catholic and Chilean university. 
Through internationalization, we seek to attract 
talent and knowledge and transfer our own to areas 
where it is needed. 
Internationalization nurtures and boosts our 
creativity, brings us closer to other cultures 
different parts of the university. This articulation, 
based on a high standard of management, will 
be fundamental for the promotion of an internal 
cultural change towards strategic positioning in the 
international context. The aim is to implement an 
effective management of information, processes 
and continuous improvement, an internal and 
external communication strategy, and a sustainable 
international collaboration development model.
At the same time, in order to promote a greater 
appreciation and recognition of internationalization, 
networking will be implemented with those in 
charge of international affairs from different units 
of the university. This will allow further progress on 
what has been built and improve the management 
of mobility processes, scholarship allocation, 
management of information on international 
activity, processing of agreements and evaluation 
of results.
61 60
DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANGlobal, cross-
cutting, and inclusive 
training
Global training includes the development of a set 
of competencies that allow us to face very different 
intercultural, international and global realities, and 
that are available to all members of the community. 
This is part of our educational project that has been 
mentioned in other axes and is a fundamental and 
transversal aspect of our plan. The contribution 
of this axis begins with internationalization 
at home and, in particular, with curricular 
internationalization. Through active learning and 
the use of technologies, the university expects 
to develop instances of meaningful interaction 
between national and foreign students, teaching 
courses developed in conjunction with international 
institutions that contribute to the UC graduate 
profile. To do so, we expect to offer a diverse set of 
pre-validated courses with our strategic partners.
To maximize the impact of internationalization at 
home, facilitating the possibilities of interacting, 
communicating and getting to know other cultures 
in depth, it is important to increase the level of 
English in the entire university community. On 
the other hand, the Instituto Confucio plays a very 
important role in strengthening our relationship 
with China and is a channel to promote and diversify 
the internationalization of university life, through Accompanying the 
intra- and extra-border 
community and linkage 
with foreign alumni
During the last three years, the hiring of foreign 
academics has grown significantly, representing 
close to 40% of the new professors joining the 
university. Likewise, the number of international 
students entering all levels of education has 
increased. In both cases, it is necessary to develop 
a program for welcoming, accompanying and 
monitoring people, in order to ensure that our 
university is a safe and welcoming space for all.The main tasks of the accompaniment program 
are the centralization of the welcoming and 
integration processes of foreigners, as well as the 
support to people from the UC community who are 
seeking international placement opportunities or 
who are abroad. This effort must include protocols 
and initiatives to prevent and face risk situations 
typical of academic mobility.
On the other hand, it is paramount to strengthen 
the link with undergraduate and graduate alumni 
from other countries who have studied at UC.“Internationalization at 
home is very important to 
enhance inclusion and the 
possibility of leveraging 
digital tools makes it vastly 
more feasible to explore new 
collaborations and diversify 
geographic approaches”.
University Superior Council Day
its work of disseminating Chinese language and 
culture in our country. During the next five years 
we will expand and systematize initiatives aimed 
at keeping international life active within the 
campuses, making our identity and our links with 
the rest of the world more visible.
Through internationalization at home, and with 
a focus on global training, the university expects 
to attract international talent, promote curricular 
internationalization in undergraduate, master’s 
and doctoral programs, foster international 
mobility and its appreciation in the community, and 
increase intercultural exchange on all campuses.
DEVELOPING INTERNATIONALIZATION AT HOME
 /  Creating new instances of meaningful interaction between  
domestic and foreign students and promoting permanent 
international activities on campus.
 /  Promoting opportunities to enhance the UC graduate profile  
with the development of intercultural skills and languages.
 /  Moving forward with the creation of more courses and PhD 
programs taught entirely or partially in English.OBJECTIVE / 2
Deepening  
internationalization:  
objectives and actionsDEVELOPING ACCOMPANIMENT PROGRAMS FOR 
FOREIGNERS AND SUPPORT PROGRAMS FOR MEMBERS 
OF THE UC COMMUNITY
 /  Developing an accompaniment program that considers 
foreigners of all levels together with their families, and 
centralizing the processes related to the welcoming of 
international people. 
 /  Supporting members of the university community who  
are seeking international opportunities or pursuing 
programs abroad. 
 /  Developing protocols to prevent and deal with risk 
situations, oriented to the foreign community.OBJECTIVE / 3
Deepening  
internationalization:  
objectives and actions

63 62
DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANInternational 
collaboration in 
research and creation
The strengthening of international research 
collaboration is a challenge that has become 
increasingly important for the UC. This collaboration 
makes it possible to scale the university’s existing 
creative capacities in scientific, technological, 
artistic, humanistic and social fields. A key aspect 
in this effort is the centralization of information 
and the definition of collaboration focuses and 
networks.
Through international collaboration, the university 
can solve local concerns and be part of the solution 
to global problems.Strategic 
engagement
In recent years, the university has made 
significant progress in the international arena. 
Greater participation in networks and the 
development of strategic links with international 
partners have expanded academic opportunities in 
training, creation and impact. Today we need to 
define criteria that will allow us to identify and 
prioritize the partner institutions and networks 
with which we wish to collaborate, in order to 
focus our efforts and resources on consolidating 
these relationships and thereby strengthen our 
international academic base.
We intend to achieve a solid link with each of 
these partners, in one or more areas, exercising 
an active leadership in all international instances. 
Along with this, we will promote the international 
accreditation of degree programs in order to 
promote the external validation of the quality of 
all our programs. At the regional level, we must 
take advantage of existing networks to contribute 
to public policies and the development of society.“International development 
 in all areas is a real  
cultural change”.
University Superior Council Day
To achieve this purpose, we must promote the 
participation of our academics in international 
collaborative projects, as was once the case with the 
promotion of national collaborative projects. For 
this, it is essential to know and promote existing 
collaborative initiatives in the different academic 
units and take advantage of the networks that each 
professor has built in his or her academic career. 
Through international collaborative work, we will 
increase the opportunities to access new funds to 
develop cutting-edge research.
Finally, and as stated in the research and creation 
axis, a primary objective for the coming years is to 
position the Network of Regional Research Centers 
and Stations (RCER-UC) as a pole of attraction for 
worldwide academic talent.The international recognition achieved, especially 
in Latin America, imposes on us a commitment 
to the sustainable development of the region. The 
university can do much more than it does today 
in terms of professional education, especially in 
this new scenario in which distance education 
has acquired such a relevant role and has broken 
down geographical barriers between countries. In 
this aspect, the possibility of offering programs of 
interest to Latin American and Asian partners is a 
clear way to expand the reach and social impact of 
the UC in the world, along with contributing to its 
sustainability. To achieve this important objective, 
the Office of the Vice President for International 
Affairs will work closely with UC Online and the 
Office of Continuing Education in the creation of 
an offer of professional education programs, of a 
modular nature, oriented to the international world.EXPANDING RESEARCH PROJECTS AND  
INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION
 /  Supporting applications for large projects with foreign 
funding and promoting the Network of Regional Centers 
and Stations internationally.
 /  Mapping the work with international research and 
teaching partners by discipline and academic unit, to take 
advantage of advances and develop new opportunities.
 /  Establishing new meeting spaces between foreign 
and national academics, providing support and taking 
advantage of visiting professors’ stays.OBJECTIVE / 4
Deepening  
internationalization:  
objectives and actions
STRENGTHENING OUR RELATIONSHIP  
WITH STRATEGIC PARTNERS
 /  Collaborating in a more focused way and establishing intentional 
and solid links with strategic partners.
 /  Offering programs of interest to Latin American and Asian countries, 
in order to broaden the reach and social impact of the UC.
 /  Expanding the links of the Office of the Vice president for 
International Affairs, and through it of the faculties, with national 
and transnational organizations that generate new opportunities 
and open new work horizons for our students.OBJECTIVE / 5
Deepening  
internationalization:  
objectives and actions

7.
EXPANDING  
OPPORTUNITIES Inclusion with a focus on studentsA more diverse and inclusive community Inclusion research and transfer
67 66
AMPLIAR OPORTUNIDADES
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANEXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES
A university of excellence, and especially of Catholic 
identity, is one that is built on the basis of a diverse 
and inclusive community. Inclusion has been a 
priority issue for the UC in the last ten years and 
great progress has been made, but undoubtedly 
there are still important challenges that we hope 
to promote through this axis. At the same time, 
we believe that progress in inclusion, and therefore 
in diversity and equity, allows us to contribute to 
greater justice and social cohesion, so necessary 
for the country. Therefore, respect for diversity, 
through the generation of environments free of 
discrimination and violence in any form, is one of 
our main purposes.
We understand diversity as the existence of 
differences that complement each other and that 
must be strengthened to enrich the joint experience. 
Equity, on the other hand, implies building the 
conditions, supports and interventions so that, 
when barriers to participation or development 
occur, they are lifted. By enhancing diversity, 
together with recognizing and addressing inequity, 
we can advance inclusion. Given the relevance 
of these values in our educational project, the 
new graduate profile contains the attribute of 
“safeguarding and promoting the dignity of all 
people, actively contributing to the construction of 
a society that defends mutual respect and equity”12. 
The protection of the dignity of the person 
encompasses the inclusion of all members of 
society who, due to socioeconomic indices, gender 
and ethnicity, have been historically excluded and 
displaced from the Chilean social agenda.“Diversity is part of 
the richness of a 
university”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
“The university should be 
a place of dialogue and 
meeting of people who think 
differently and are different,  
so it is necessary to 
encourage interaction 
between diverse  
groups and a sense  
of belonging”. 
University Superior  
Council Day
12. UC Graduate Profile.STRENGTHENING AND ADVANCING IN NEW 
TRANSPARENT, CLEAR AND ACCESSIBLE ADMISSION 
CHANNELS AND CONSOLIDATE THE INSTALLATION OF 
STUDENT ACCOMPANIMENT AND SUPPORT PROGRAMS 
THROUGHOUT THE UC
 /  In the case of students who enter through inclusion routes and others 
who require it, evaluating the feasibility of an academic leveling 
period before they enter the selected degree programs and promoting 
the use of online methodologies and resources for the leveling and 
academic support processes.
 /  Establishing selection mechanisms based on skills that go beyond 
merely cognitive elements and developing innovative mechanisms 
for detecting and developing these diverse skills. As examples, 
the admission of scientists and entrepreneurs (NACE), the explora  
admission quotas and of outstanding artists and scientists.
 /  Establishing summer schools that offer UC courses and consider 
early openings that are open to students from private subsidized or 
municipal schools. Evaluating the use of these courses as a new 
selection and admission instrument.OBJECTIVE / 2
Expanding opportunities: 
objectives and actionsInclusion with a 
focus on students
In recent years, inclusion efforts have focused 
mainly on students. The creation of the Office of 
Inclusion in the Office of the Vice President for 
Academic Affairs, the increase in equity admission 
channels (Talent and Inclusion, special needs, PACE 
quotas, Academic Excellence Scholarship quotas 
and intercultural admission for native peoples 
and migrants), as well as initiatives linked to the 
environment such as the Program of Accompaniment 
and Effective Access to Higher Education (PACE), 
the Future School Library and the mathematical 
reasoning workshop, and outreach programs are 
outstanding examples of this work. In addition to 
this, there is a robust program of socioeconomic 
benefits, including free tuition, which currently 
benefits 25% of the students, and other support 
from the State and the university. Thanks to these 
efforts, during the last five years, equity admission 
has tripled and the number of students from 
municipal and subsidized schools and those who 
are the first generation of their families to access 
university education has increased.
EXPANDING AND CONSOLIDATING INCLUSION PROGRAMS
 /  Building and improving inclusion actions in a joint and collaborative 
manner between central units and academic units, with a view  
to institutionalizing and strengthening inclusion processes  
and programs. 
 /  Making decisive progress in increasing the number of students  
with special needs, and migrant and indigenous students who  
enter and graduate from the university.
 /  Systematizing and enriching the programs of accompaniment  
and insertion to university life, in order to improve the synergy 
between them, make them cross-cutting to the whole UC,  
and offer them to all those students who require them.OBJECTIVE / 1
Expanding opportunities: 
objectives and actionsOn the other hand, various support and insertion 
programs have been strengthened and created in 
order to generate a good university experience and 
promote graduation. These include the Program 
for the Inclusion of Students with Special Needs 
(PIANE) and PACE, academic diagnostic tests linked 
to leveling and tutoring actions and socioemotional 
support programs and insertion into university life. 
To this is added the new permanence policy and 
academic alerts.
In this area, the challenge for the next few years 
is to deepen and institutionalize the joint work 
between the Superior Direction and the academic 
units, focused on developing and improving the 
various programs and on having better impact 
indicators to guide continuous improvement. 
Specifically, we intend to strengthen and create 
new equity and special admission channels, 
along with consolidating and strengthening the 
student support and accompaniment programs, 
always safeguarding the quality and excellence of 
the educational project. In addition, we hope to 
strengthen the information systems and carry out 
a systematic evaluation of different institutional 
indicators of inclusion.
69 68
AMPLIAR OPORTUNIDADES
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANA more diverse and 
inclusive community
In relation to the community, we have seen 
progress in building an inclusive culture within 
the university. Progress in gender equity, the 
promotion of the use of more inclusive language 
and the possibility of using the social name go in 
that direction. In addition, mention must be made 
of the modifications to the infrastructure that have 
been carried out in recent years, including the 
installation of new elevators and universal signage 
to facilitate access and circulation of members of 
the community with disabilities. The openness in 
hiring administrative and professional staff with 
disabilities and the possibility for the community 
to participate in workshops and seminars to learn 
how to make curricular and labor adjustments that 
allow students and staff with disabilities to feel 
included is also worthy of mention. Despite these 
achievements, we still have a long way to go.
An objective for the coming years is to generate 
equity and diversity-promoting actions aimed 
at academics, professionals and administrators, 
with a stronger impact on the cultural change of the entire community. We will seek to deepen 
the transformation and enrichment of the 
institutional culture and practices, in order to 
engage all stakeholders as actively responsible for 
equity and promote appreciation and respect for 
diversity. In addition, we will continue to make 
progress in the adaptation of building access for 
people with disabilities and in the improvement of 
sanitary facilities.
“A more diverse 
university is a  
better university”.
University Superior Council Day“Inclusion and 
diversity issues should 
not only be focused 
on students, but also 
on academics and 
professional and 
administrative staff”.
University Superior Council Day
ADVANCING THE BUILDING OF AN INCLUSIVE, 
EQUITABLE, AND DIVERSE COMMUNITY
 /  Establishing policies and actions in favor of a culture of 
diversity, inclusion and equity, which also incorporates 
graduate students, professors, professionals and 
administrative staff, and disseminate them within the UC.
 /  Developing the hallmark of inclusion and diversity established 
in the graduate profile of our students, implementing 
and diversifying training actions at all levels: curriculum, 
evaluation, methodology, university life, coexistence and 
regular internships. For this purpose, a line of Fondedoc and 
Innovadoc funds should be promoted in these areas.
 /  Promoting meaningful contacts between diverse people, 
offering effective opportunities for interaction between people 
who come from different backgrounds or manifest differences 
in beliefs, opinions and lifestyles.OBJECTIVE / 3
Expanding opportunities: 
objectives and actionsDEVELOPING RESEARCH IN INCLUSIVE EDUCATION,  
IN ORDER TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE HIGHER  
EDUCATION SYSTEM AND PUBLIC POLICIES IN CHILE
 /  Identifying and analyzing variables that allow 
improving the processes of inclusion, equity and 
diversity in the UC.
 /  Creating new interdisciplinary academic positions to  
hire experts in these areas of knowledge.
 /  Establishing interdisciplinary research competitions  
on these topics.OBJECTIVE / 4
Expanding opportunities: 
objectives and actions
Inclusion research 
and transfer
Contributing to public policies related to inclusion 
and multiplying the impact of our work in the higher 
education system is another important challenge 
for the coming years. To this end, we propose to 
develop high-impact research on inclusion that not 
only contributes to improving our own actions, but 
also contributes to the development of inclusive 
higher education in the country.
The university should take advantage of its installed 
research capacity in these topics and strengthen it. 
The results of such research should aim to evaluate 
and improve our own programs, as well as to 
provide scientific bases to improve existing public 
policies and contribute with new approaches.
“We are all  
valuable people”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
8.
DIGITAL  
TRANSFORMATIONDigital culture and institutional governance
Information management and security Digital teaching and student experience
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION73 72
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
DIGITAL  
TRANSFORMATION
Digital transformation is a continuous process of 
innovation initiatives in which data, technology 
and people interact, adopting a culture and a new 
way of doing things. In this context, data is the 
key to identifying opportunities, prioritizing them 
and measuring results. Technology, on the other 
hand, makes it possible to redesign interactions 
and the user experience. People, on the other hand, 
are fundamental as organizational and cultural 
enablers of digital transformation.
For the university, this transformation process is 
the result of progress in its digital maturity and a 
response to the need to generate an institutional 
organization for a series of isolated initiatives 
that have already begun. In the first phase, the 
objective is to generate a profound cultural 
change that will enable the modernization of the 
institution through digitization. This involves the 
use of technology to carry out existing processes 
more efficiently, reducing time and improving 
results. In a higher stage of this process, the 
challenge is to concretize the integration of digital 
technologies in teaching, learning, research, 
transfer and organizational practices.Digital culture 
and institutional 
governance
To create a digital culture within the university, 
we must approach this transformation from an 
institutional and comprehensive perspective. This 
implies generating a governance structure that 
articulates, transversally, the various initiatives in 
technology and information systems that are carried 
out in our institution. At the same time, we need to 
include a new approach in the institutional vision 
and leadership, enabling all members in digital 
competencies, improving internal capabilities, and 
attracting new talent with these skills.
Based on the progress made in this area and the 
future challenges to be faced, we want to internalize 
the vision of the university as a laboratory of 
the future, recognizing itself as a space for 
experimentation, trial, error and innovation in its 
management and processes.BUILDING A DIGITAL CULTURE AT THE UC  
AND MOVING TOWARDS INSTITUTIONAL DIGITAL 
TRANSFORMATION
 / Generating a government structure that promotes digital 
transformation with an institutional and comprehensive 
approach and that promotes a portfolio of technological 
projects framed within this objective.
 /  Implementing a digital competency plan for the entire 
university community, with special emphasis on its leaders 
to drive the transformation.
 /  Implementing protocols and actions for an ethical use of 
digital information, as well as for a responsible and self-
care based use of social networks and digital technologies 
in general, in order to develop a culture of healthy digital 
coexistence or “digital citizenship”.“Digital development 
requires a human 
approach to these 
processes; technology 
is not enough. This 
implies a transformation 
of our university work 
that allows us to 
 enrich it and make it  
more efficient”. 
University Superior Council Day
“Digital transformation 
requires a cultural 
change, it is not enough 
to have the technologies, 
but we must change our 
mentality to integrate 
them into our work”. 
University Superior Council Day“We must use digital 
 tools as a complement to 
face-to-face activity”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
OBJECTIVE / 1
Digital transformation: 
objectives and actions
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION75 74
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN“For all the professional 
work that supports the 
university, it is also 
essential to have high-
level digital tools”.  
University Superior Council DayInformation 
management  
and security
To move towards a digital university, several actions 
have been carried out in recent years in the areas 
of management and information technologies. 
Recently, the process of implementing a new 
financial information system began, focusing on 
change management and coordinated work with 
academic and administrative units. On the other 
hand, the Technological Nucleus initiative has 
improved the alignment of the IT projects of central 
units with the university’s development plan. Our 
main challenge for the coming years is to improve 
the security of information, including that related 
to clinical research that contains patient data.
Another important development in this area is 
the creation of the Office of Data and Information 
Governance in 2018, which emerged in response to 
the growing importance of institutional information 
as a strategic asset to be protected and enhanced. This unit, under the Office of the Provost, has 
the mission of carrying out UC data governance 
processes, through coordination between people, 
processes and technology involved. Among its 
first achievements are a platform for access to 
information panels, the design of a data governance 
methodology and an institutional data map and 
model. In the coming years, the role of this unit 
will be essential in the digital transformation 
process of the university.
The library system, due to its relevance in academic 
work, is also called to be a key player in this process. 
In the UC Libraries a large amount of information 
that is increasingly digital is concentrated, which 
has led to implement a major transformation in 
them for several years. Along with continuing to 
strengthen this work, one of the main challenges 
of the library system is to be a major partner in the 
effort to digitally transform the UC. 
IMPROVING INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND SECURITY
 /  Fostering greater synergy between the areas that teach and 
those that generate or administer information, in order to 
promote better academic and research management. 
 /  Focusing efforts on improving information security, through 
the creation and implementation of protocols, policies, 
compliance with standards, and implementing proper identity 
management in the IT systems.
 /  Developing and implementing a new financial information 
system (ERP), pioneer in the adoption of technologies 
focused on change management.OBJECTIVE / 2
Digital transformation:  
objectives and actions

DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION77 76
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANAlong with using technology as an important tool to 
promote higher quality teaching, we must make use 
of it to improve the experience of students with the 
different processes and services of the university. 
The main challenge for the coming years is to rethink 
our educational project in the context of this digital 
transformation, and based on these definitions, 
enhance existing tools and new solutions.
Continuing education has made important 
advances in processes and technologies that seek 
to improve the student experience and promote the 
expansion of this activity. Initiatives such as the 
modernization of the learning management system 
platform, the development of massive open online 
courses, improvements in the pedagogical and 
course production model, the renovation of physical 
and digital infrastructure, interactive webinars and 
online classes through various devices, among 
others, stand out. POSITIONING TECHNOLOGY AS A TOOL TO IMPROVE  
THE QUALITY OF TEACHING AND INCREASING THE  
SCOPE OF THE EDUCATIONAL PROJECT
 /  Updating the UC educational project in the context of digital 
transformation, and promoting tools and new solutions such 
as Canvas, Zoom, virtual laboratories, blended classes and 
technological innovations. 
 /  Generating a wide variety of teaching methodologies from the 
traditional to the more technological, studying student preferences 
and their impact on learning, and supporting the role of the teacher 
in these new ways of teaching. 
 /  Incorporating the digital dimension in the formulation of new degree 
programs and courses, in the programs, in the research areas and 
in all academic work, together with the development of 100% online 
undergraduate courses and master’s degree programs, with a 
special focus on international students.
OBJECTIVE / 3
Digital transformation:  
objectives and actionsHowever, there is still great room for further 
growth, particularly in the area of distance 
professional education geared to the international 
world. In this task, the Office of the Vice President 
for International Affairs plays a fundamental role.
In terms of teaching, and in line with the 
university’s commitment to contribute to the digital 
transformation of the country, the recent creation 
of a bachelor’s degree in data science engineering 
is worth mentioning. This new program, which will 
begin to be taught at the UC in 2021, is the first degree 
to be housed in an interdisciplinary academic unit 
-the Institute of Mathematical and Computational 
Engineering- developed jointly by the School of 
Engineering and the Faculty of Mathematics.“The pandemic has 
driven the digital 
transformation of 
teaching. We need to 
reflect on the role of 
the teacher and face-
to-face teaching”.  
University Superior Council Day
Digital teaching and 
student experience
Undergraduate and graduate teaching at UC has 
undergone strong changes in recent times, but 
particularly during the last year. Until the beginning 
of 2019, teaching was mainly through face-to- face 
classes and a Canvas project had been installed, 
an initiative that in the middle of that year was 
in full development. From the social unrest of 
October 2019 and, in particular, due to the covid-19 
pandemic of 2020, teaching at the university had 
to be transformed into a system with 100% remote 
classes through Canvas and Zoom, a platform that 
was incorporated to support these efforts. In this 
new scenario, new and important challenges arose 
related to academic integrity, digital competencies 
of professors and staff, internet connectivity and 
access to computers, among others. However, 
the first teaching evaluations obtained from this 
process are very positive, evidencing the quality 
and commitment of the academics and students 
that make up the university.“Digital education 
has other 
characteristics 
and requires new 
teaching skills”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
9.
PUBLIC ROLE  
 AND ENGAGEMENT 
WITH SOCIETYT raining people to serve the common good
Public role of the universityDissemination of artistic culturePublic commitment in academic activities
PUBLIC ROLE AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY81 80
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANPUBLIC ROLE AND 
ENGAGEMENT 
WITH SOCIETY
Since its creation, the Universidad Católica has 
maintained and exercised a strong public vocation 
and function. Its commitment to the country is 
reflected transversally in all its activities, from the 
training of professionals for Chile and the world, 
and the creation and transfer of knowledge that 
directly benefits society, to its numerous initiatives 
that contribute to public policy, education, health, 
arts and culture, and, in general, to improving the 
quality of life of people.
In recent years, special emphasis has been placed on 
further enhancing the public role of our university 
and making known both internally and externally 
the contributions that UC makes to the country. 
However, the current times impose new challenges 
due to the strong changes that Chile and the world 
have experienced. Today, society is experiencing a 
deterioration of the sense of community, and this 
requires us to redirect our efforts and move towards 
a greater bidirectionality in our relationship with 
it. The university goes out to meet society, to the 
public, and it is precisely the social and the public “The social duty of the student, 
and of the UC community in 
general, must be in the DNA 
 of our university”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
that broadens the view of our community, teaches 
us and formulates new challenges for us.
In this regard, there is no doubt that in the coming 
years we will face important and urgent challenges 
as a country. The current coronavirus pandemic has 
not only caused unfortunate loss of human lives, 
but has also posed important health, social and 
economic challenges. The looming economic crisis 
will involve high unemployment and will set back 
many of the social advances that Chile has achieved. 
In addition to this, we must not forget the challenges 
already on the agenda of our country and the world, 
such as sustainability, the effects of climate change, 
the new demographic profile of the population and 
the problems associated with inequality, which 
highlight the shortcomings in terms of social OBJECTIVE / 1
Public role:  
objectives and actionsPROMOTING SERVICE TO THE COMMON GOOD AS A 
FUNDAMENTAL ASPECT IN THE TRAINING OF INDIVIDUALS
 /  Reviewing and reorienting programs and curricula in order to foster a 
sense of public and social awareness in the training of our students 
and incorporating content such as citizenship training, care for the 
environment and community appreciation, among other topics.
 /  Promoting in the formative process the skills of listening, dialogue and 
respect for others, as well as inspiring the development of public virtues. 
 /  Stimulating the participation of students and academics in the work of the 
Pastoral UC, specifically in its initiatives oriented to solidarity, community 
work, missions, training and culture.cohesion and the urgent need to consolidate a better 
coexistence in a scenario of diversity.
The service of the common good is an essential 
Christian principle and must remain at the heart of 
our work. To carry out this task, the commitment 
must be resolutely to the Truth, to the Logos, 
especially when the conviction regarding these 
principles has weakened in all environments. 
Our contribution to this common good and to the 
solution of public problems is a challenge that we 
must address in an institutional manner, through 
our different spheres of action.
Training people  
to serve the  
common good
The university aspires to provide its students and 
graduates with an training of excellence, which not 
only stands out for its academic and professional 
aspects, but also for its service to society and the 
country. Our educational project aims to form 
people of integrity, who include in their education 
the interest and appreciation for the common good 
and the cultivation of public virtues. As part of 
our hallmark, we expect our students and alumni 
to take a binding role with public problems and 
contribute to the resolution of society’s needs.
In this purpose, the School of Government and the 
Public Policy Center play a fundamental role. This 
school, created in 2016, seeks to contribute to an 
interdisciplinary training of professionals who are 
capable of creating innovative solutions, promoting “Commitment to the 
public is not just about 
performing a social 
action, but implies 
a broader view of 
contributing to the 
common good and that 
is what we have to instill 
in our students”.
University Superior Council Day
dialogue and collaboration between the State, the 
private sector, and social and citizen organizations. 
The Public Policy Center, meanwhile, contributes 
significantly to linking teaching with the national 
reality and the real and urgent problems of the 
country, through programs such as Puentes UC and 
UC Propone.
To advance in this formative process with a public 
and social sense, and as mentioned in the Academic 
Challenges and Innovations axis, we propose to 
reorient some programs and curricula and expand 
the offer of courses and extracurricular activities 
that promote our students’ commitment to the 
common good. 

PUBLIC ROLE AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY83 82
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN“We must train academics 
to go to the encounter with 
the public and, thus, be 
able to take charge of the 
country’s problems”.
University Superior Council DayHIGHLIGHTING THE IMPORTANCE OF PUBLIC COMMITMENT 
IN ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES
 /  Defining mechanisms and instruments that encourage scientific 
research in the public interest, which can be permanently installed 
in the academic career, and incorporating public commitment in 
the academic evaluation instruments.
 /  Defining minimum thresholds of public engagement activities 
in the different academic categories. For this purpose, a 
classification of activities that are publicly relevant for each area 
should be made.
 /  Creating a systematic record and report of participation in 
committees, commissions, initiatives and relevant public 
engagement activities.OBJECTIVE / 2
Public role:  
objectives and actions
Public commitment 
in academic activities
The university is a space for knowledge and 
reflection that must be linked to the health, social, 
institutional and economic challenges of today’s 
Chile. As part of its public role, the university must 
investigate, generate evidence and reflect on the 
country’s challenges, as well as contribute to the 
public policy debate.
The challenges we face as a result of the new social 
needs must become evident in our teaching and 
research work, always safeguarding our identity. 
We must emphasize the relevance of academic 
work for the common good, advancing in the 
integration of knowledge at the service of society. 
In the coming years, we intend to broaden our 
vision in order to understand the deep reality, but 
also the daily reality, of the national community 
and to make efforts to learn about the diversity 
of the Chile we live in. Our challenge will be to 
promote initiatives aimed at strengthening ties 
and reaching all corners of the country and the 
territories surrounding each campus, without 
neglecting the connection and reference that the 
international reality provides.As already mentioned, the work of the School of 
Government and the Public Policy Center is of vital 
importance to link UC’s academic work with the 
main challenges of society, with innovative and 
interdisciplinary approaches. The work of both 
units must continue to advance, deepening their 
respective tasks and articulating their work in a 
synergic manner. Public role  
of the university
Along with promoting public commitment in 
the training of people and academic work, the 
university must strengthen its contribution and 
presence, as an institution, in the major problems 
facing the country. This public role is part of 
the ethos of our university and, therefore, has 
a transversal, fundamental and institutional 
character. An important challenge is to ensure 
that the vocation of service to the common good 
is present in the actions of all members of the 
university community.
The university must continue to strengthen the 
transfer of applied knowledge to the public, similar 
to what other foreign universities do (Knowledge 
Exchange). To do so, we must promote concrete 
initiatives of linkage with parliament, government, 
and the business and civil society, so that the 
knowledge generated by the university can be 
appropriated by these instances.
It is also important to develop and articulate 
university social responsibility programs with 
environments close to the campus and with target 
groups related to the different disciplines, with 
special emphasis on communities and people with 
social disadvantages.
STRENGTHENING THE PRESENCE OF THE UNIVERSITY 
IN THE PUBLIC SPHERE AND ITS CONTRIBUTION TO 
THE COUNTRY
 /  Building a shared definition of the concepts of “public 
commitment” and “public role” among all the university’s 
stakeholders.
 /  Actively promoting the voice and public presence of various 
authorities of the university in relevant issues of the country.
 /  Structuring an active link between UC research centers and 
the legislative agenda, which allows us, as a university, to 
contribute to these projects and, in turn, that this agenda 
nurtures the work and reflection within our institution.OBJECTIVE / 3
Public role:  
objectives and actions“The University can make 
a great contribution from 
the academy to find ways 
to overcome the social and 
economic crisis”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020

PUBLIC ROLE AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY85 84
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANCONSOLIDATING OUR PUBLIC ROLE AND COMMITMENT  
TO THE DISSEMINATION OF THE UNIVERSITY’S ARTISTIC  
CULTURE IN ALL AREAS OF ITS ACADEMIC WORK AND  
IN ITS LINKS WITH SOCIETY
 /  Increasing and effectively positioning creation, research, 
dissemination and innovation in, from and about the arts.
 /  Opening new routes for the internationalization of the UC, leading 
the integration of the arts in international networks and develop 
courses derived from the Artifica la UC model - in an online format  
to incorporate into the curriculum of other universities outside  
the country.
 /  Increasing the links of the UC with society as a whole, 
through the strengthening, development and encouragement 
of festivals, cycles and seasons, art exhibitions, theater 
productions, promotion of the activities and collections of 
the Extension Center, the UC Heritage Archives, and Artifica 
projects with the participation of UC academics,  
staff, students, and alumni. OBJECTIVE / 4
Public role:  
objectives and actions
Dissemination of 
artistic culture
The promotion, extension and education of the 
community around artistic creation and research, 
both inside and outside our university, has reached 
important achievements. Ten years after its 
installation, the Office of Arts and Culture (DAC) 
is now fully consolidated, while the UC Extension 
Center has achieved an important national 
positioning as well as the activities of our Faculty of 
Arts, associated with spaces such as the UC Theater, 
the Macchina Gallery or the concert seasons of 
the Institute of Music (IMUC). In addition, the 
acquisition of Beethoven Radio will allow an even 
stronger link between our artistic and cultural 
creation and society. At the international level, 
the UC has actively joined the Alliance for the Arts 
in Research Universities (a2ru) network. With its 
“Artifica la UC” program, the DAC has multiplied 
the permeating potential of the arts, creativity, 
aesthetic experience and culture in all areas of 
the university. Our challenge is to scale up what has been achieved, consolidating our leadership in 
artistic creation, the cultural link with society, and 
the internationalization of the arts.
It is important to position ourselves as a leading 
institution in our public role as agents of culture 
and the arts in Santiago, Chile and abroad. For this, 
we must have new physical and symbolic spaces for 
the development of the arts inside and outside the 
university, which will allow us to achieve a strong 
presence in the national and international art scene. 
We will achieve this through the participation of 
our artists in biennials, fairs and festivals, high-
impact publications on culture and the arts, and 
by adopting a more active role in public policies on 
arts and culture in the country.“Opening the doors of  
the university to society”. 
La UC Dialoga / 2020

10.
INSTITUTIONAL  
MANAGEMENTInternalization of services provided by external collaborators and professional development of the plant personnel
Carbon Neutrality Linkage and related entitiesUC’s economic sustainability and future development
INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT89 88
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANINSTITUTIONAL 
MANAGEMENT
An orderly and efficient institutional management, 
which also considers aspects of its future 
development, is fundamental to achieve the 
objectives that the university proposes, since it is 
the basis not only for financing but also for all its 
activities. In order to move forward, it is essential 
to seek adequate organization and governance, 
with serious and systematic planning processes, 
with proper management of resources and people, 
and with the necessary funding to carry out our 
various activities.
In the coming years, the main challenge in this 
area will be to ensure our economic sustainability. 
To address this, it will be essential to generate new 
income and seek greater efficiency and synergies 
within the university.“Much joint and 
coordinated effort is 
required between the 
academic units and 
the Superior Direction 
to achieve greater 
efficiency and synergy”.
University Superior Council Day
In addition, we intend to strengthen our ties with 
alumni, the public and private sectors, and related 
entities. Also, our commitment is to implement 
actions that will allow us to advance towards the 
goal of carbon neutrality and to complete the 
process of internalization of the services provided 
by external collaborators.UC’s economic 
sustainability and 
future development 
The university faces a significant challenge of 
future economic sustainability. Undergraduate 
tuition revenues are limited by the conditions of 
free tuition, while research funds are stagnant 
and subject to increasing competition. Resources 
from graduate and continuing education, which 
represent less than 15% of the university’s total 
income, have also stagnated for various reasons and 
the same has happened with income from services. 
To this we must add the effect of the pandemic and 
the possible impacts of social conflict. 
“Our economic 
sustainability will be the 
framework for what we can 
do in the future. We will 
need to look for resources 
to strengthen and protect 
the educational project”.
University Superior Council DayTo safeguard the development and economic 
sustainability of the university in the long term, 
the “Financial Reserve Fund of the Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile” or UC Endowment 
was created in 2017. This consists of an endowment 
fund that, through the use of the financial interest 
of the resources, allows financing academic 
development projects, research and innovation 
work, and scholarships for vulnerable students. 
Although an important effort has been made to 
build this endowment, which by 2019 had achieved 
the goal of raising the equivalent of US$30 million, 
donations have remained relatively constant over 
the last few years. Our challenge is to continue 
with the work of attracting new resources and 
increasing our reserve fund, a task that is crucial to 
project and expand the work of the UC and provide 
economic sustainability in the long term.
ADVANCING IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF 
INITIATIVES THAT COLLABORATE WITH THE 
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE UC
 /  Conceiving and implementing a strategy and organization 
to achieve relevant growth in enrollment and revenue 
from postgraduate and continuing education, particularly 
in online, remote and blended formats, eventually 
extending to professional master’s degree programs.
 /  Reviewing the areas and services provided by the 
university to external parties and define the best way to 
organize and strengthen them, considering the necessary 
mechanisms for this purpose.
 /  Supporting the development of innovation projects that 
allow licensing or participation in start -ups, and help 
generate income for the university.OBJECTIVE / 1
Institutional management: 
objectives and actions

INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT91 90
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLAN“The relationship with our 
affiliated institutions is of great 
importance. We must have the 
concept of a great institution”.
 University Superior Council DayLinkage and  
related entities
Another important challenge is to deepen ties with 
graduates and with the public and business sectors 
in general. In this area, it is worth mentioning the 
work done by Alumni UC in recent years, promoting 
the relationship with alumni and working jointly 
with the academic units. However, it is necessary 
to continue advancing in this connection.
A greater linkage with alumni, with the public and 
private sector and with civil society organizations 
is of special relevance, and from the perspective of 
our role and public commitment, should strengthen 
our contribution capacity and recognition in 
society. This capacity could also be strengthened 
by a greater linkage with related entities that 
represent complementary proposals and make a 
great contribution.STRENGTHENING TIES WITH ALUMNI  
AND RELATED ENTITIES
 /  Formulating and implementing a more aggressive strategy of 
search, linkage, and relationship with alumni, also considering 
the joint work of Alumni UC and the Fund Raising and 
Philanthropy area, as well as with the areas of liaison with 
graduates and search for resources of the academic units. 
 /  Strengthening mutual knowledge and links with related 
institutions, generating mechanisms for greater interaction 
with these entities and the possibility of strengthening the 
commitment and joint public contribution, and developing a 
portfolio of possible joint projects of mutual interest.OBJECTIVE / 2
Institutional management: 
objectives and actions
DECISIVELY MOVING TOWARDS THE GOAL  
OF BEING CARBON NEUTRAL BY 2038
 /  Implementing a strategy to reduce (mitigate) current emissions 
through investments that generate greater efficiency in the 
use of resources in our facilities, and that produce behavioral 
changes in our community, defining new minimum standards 
for the infrastructure to be built in the university and gradual 
improvements in existing buildings.
 /  Generating and implementing a mechanism that requires 
justifying intercity and international trips financed with funds 
administered by the UC, progressively offsetting their emissions 
by 2026, and implementing a charging scheme for the  
emissions generated.
 /  Developing a broad campaign that includes projects and 
initiatives that promote a culture of sustainability and carbon 
neutrality at the UC.OBJECTIVE / 3
Institutional management: 
objectives and actionsCarbon Neutrality
The university has made a commitment to be 
carbon neutral by 2038. To this end, during the 
next five years we intend to implement various 
actions to advance the goal of reducing emissions 
and increasing the capture of greenhouse gases. 
The specific actions will respond to the strategy 
structured around ten dimensions that are 
currently being worked on. Among the actions 
to be taken are the adoption of new standards 
for buildings, compensation for travel emissions, 
and a forestation plan in Pirque and San Carlos de 
Apoquindo. In this same area, and as mentioned in 
the Digital Transformation axis, we have proposed 
to move towards a “paperless” university.“We need a cleaner city 
and the UC community 
has a major environmental 
impact by mobilizing more 
than 30,000 people”.
La UC Dialoga / 2020
Although there is a relevant joint work with 
organizations such as Duoc UC, Copec UC, the 
Sports Club, the Red de Salud UC Christus or Dictuc 
S.A., there is an opportunity to deepen mutual 
knowledge and to develop new proposals that 
benefit society, strengthening both the university 
and the entities themselves. 

INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT93 92
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANOBJECTIVE / 4
Institutional management: 
objectives and actions
Internalization of 
services provided by 
external collaborators 
and professional 
development of the 
plant staff
The university has made an important commitment 
to incorporate external collaborators to its 
administrative staff, in order to strengthen the 
sense of community and belonging. In the coming 
years, this internalization process should be carried 
out gradually, responsibly and with special care for 
the well-being of individuals and the community. 
It is important to emphasize that this is a process 
in which milestones will be reached that will mark 
progress in this area.In addition, in relation to the professional and 
administrative staff, our purpose is to implement 
a professional development plan that addresses 
current needs and the requirements foreseen 
for the future. We expect to have a professional 
development program that responds both to the 
weaknesses and opportunities detected, as well 
as to the new demands that arise from changes in 
society, technology or management methods.
IMPLEMENTING THE PROCESS OF INTERNALIZATION OF 
SERVICES PROVIDED BY EXTERNAL COLLABORATORS AND 
PROMOTING THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE STAFF
 /  Having an organizational structure and adequate plans to 
progressively initiate the incorporation of external collaborators 
to the university’s staff, and achieving their adequate insertion in 
the UC community, also documenting the knowledge generated 
from the experience.
 /  Deepening the specific diagnosis of the professional 
development requirements of the university’s collaborators 
(professional and administrative), and preparing a program  
to cover the needs that arise from this analysis, such as the  
new requirements posed by the development of society, 
technology or forms of management.
INDICATORS

97 96
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANAXIS INDICATOR OR MILESTONE DESCRIPTION
Interdisciplinary courses on sustainability and 
integral ecology and the Social Doctrine of the 
Church and enrolled students.Number of courses-section taught and students-
courses enrolled each year.
Participants in Pastoral Ministry activities.Number of students, academics, officials, and alumni 
who participate in UC Pastoral Ministry activities per 
year.
Milestone: Preparation of an introductory 
document to the university in light of  
Ex Corde Ecclesiae.Milestone: Document published.
Sense of belonging of UC students.Percentage of regular undergraduate students who 
state that they feel part of the UC based on the annual 
satisfaction survey.
Sense of belonging of UC graduates.Percentage of graduates of the last 5 years who state 
that they feel identified with the UC based on the  
annual survey.
Sense of belonging of academics and UC 
employees.Percentage of academics, professionals and 
administrative staff who feel proud to belong to the UC 
according to the organizational climate survey.
Participants of La UC Dialoga.Number of annual participants in La UC Dialoga  
activities by level.
Offices under the Green Office program.Accumulated number of offices assigned to the Green 
Office program.
Integration initiatives between and within 
faculties.Number of intra-faculty and inter-faculty integration 
initiatives implemented each year.
Undergraduate programs structured in College 
modality.Number of undergraduate programs structured in 
College modality, with majors and minors.
New interdisciplinary graduate programs.Number of interdisciplinary master's and PhD  
programs created each year.
Milestone: Modifying the composition of the HCS 
through a reform of the bylaws.Milestone: Modification made.The following is a selection of indicators and 
milestones associated with the different axes of 
the Development Plan, which will be monitored 
annually at the institutional level as well as by 
academic unit, program, or the corresponding 
level of disaggregation.Undergraduate programs with the new general 
education implemented.Percentage of undergraduate academic programs that 
have implemented the new curricular guidelines of the 
General Education Plan.
Service Learning program (A+S) courses and 
students.Number of courses using the Service-Learning (A+S) 
methodology offered each year and students enrolled 
in them.
Students in undergraduate research initiatives.Number of students participating in undergraduate 
research competitions, UC Propone and other 
initiatives to promote undergraduate research.
Teachers trained in digital tools for teaching.Number of teachers trained in digital tools for teaching 
per year.
Participation of women in new academic hires.Percentage of new academic positions that are 
women.
Retention rate of female academics in the 3rd 
and 7th year after entry.Percentage of women academics that still have a 
current contract, among those who were hired in 
regular staff 3 years and seven years 7 ago.
Retention rate of foreign professors in the 3rd 
and 7th year after entry.Percentage of foreign professors with current 
contracts in relation to those who were hired in regular 
staff 3 years and seven years 7 ago.
Milestones: Preparation of annual academic 
integrity misconduct reports.Milestone: Annual reports completed.
WoS and Scopus publications.Number of publications indexed in Web of Science 
and number of Scopus publications for each year.
Economic resources obtained from international 
sources and from the private sector to develop 
research.Amounts obtained each year for research from 
international and private sources.
Economic resources obtained for the economic 
sustainability of RCER.Amounts obtained each year for the Network of 
Regional Centers and Stations by type of source.
PhD program graduates with research 
internships in foreign universities of excellence.Number of PhD program graduates with research 
internships of three months or more in foreign 
universities of excellence.
Applicants and students enrolled in PhD 
programs related to industry and the public 
sector.Number of applicants and enrolled students in PhD 
programs related to industry and the public sector, by 
funding source (industrial counterpart, state funds, 
foreign funds or UC funds).
UC PhDs inserted outside the academy.Percentage of PhD program graduates (within the last 
5 years) working outside academia (public and private 
sector), based on survey of PhD graduates.
Milestone: Creation of the new science education 
and outreach unit.Milestone: Unit created.Along with these priority indicators, each axis has a 
set of additional metrics that are highly relevant for 
monitoring the specific objectives and actions of each 
area. These specific indicators are part of the extended 
chapters of each axis, documents that are in charge of 
the coordinators of the different commissions.
/CHALLENGES AND ACADEMIC INNOVATIONS /CATHOLIC  
IDENTITY
/RESEARCH AND CREATION /UC COMMUNITY /GOVERNMENTINDICATORSINDICADORES
AXIS INDICATOR OR MILESTONE DESCRIPTION
99 98
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANUC students who carry out an academic activity 
abroadNumber of UC students who carry out an academic 
activity abroad during their studies (undergraduate 
and graduate).
English proficiency level of students, academics, 
and staff.Metrics to be defined.
International accreditations.Number of academic units or programs with 
international accreditation.
PhD programs taught in EnglishNumber of PhD programs taught, wholly or partially, 
in English.
Undergraduate courses in English.Number of undergraduate section-courses taught in 
English each year.
Satisfaction of foreigners with regard to recep-
tion, accompaniment, and follow-up programs.Satisfaction of foreign students, academics 
and professionals with respect to the welcome, 
accompaniment, and follow-up programs, based on a 
survey to be developed.
Presence of Latin American students in graduate 
and continuing education programs.Number of Latin American students pursuing graduate 
and continuing education programs at the UC each 
year.
Publications with international collaboration.Percentage of Web of Science and Scopus 
publications with international collaboration.
Students admitted through equity channels.Includes students admitted to UC degree programs 
through the following channels: talent and inclusion 
(T+I), BEA supernumerary quotas, PACE, intercultural 
(migrants and native peoples) and special needs.
Graduation rate of students entering through 
equity channels.Graduation rate of students entering on equity 
channels by entry cohort.
Students who are the first generation of their 
families to enter a university.Percentage of students admitted each year that 
are the first generation of their families to enter a 
university.
Students who come from municipal or subsidized 
private schools.Percentage of students entering each year who come 
from municipal or subsidized private schools.
FONDEDOC and INNOVADOC projects on 
inclusion, equity and diversity.Number of FONDEDOC and INNOVADOC projects 
on inclusion, equity and diversity.
Research projects on inclusion, equity and 
diversity issues.Number of interdisciplinary research projects and 
public policy recommendations on inclusion, equity 
and diversity.
Training of leaders in digital transformation 
matters.Number of leaders benefiting from a digital 
transformation training plan.
Indicators available on the decisiones.uc.cl 
websiteNumber of indicators available for decision making on 
the decisiones.uc.cl website
Implementation of the new ERP management 
system.Percentage of adoption of new digital financial 
processes with the new management system (ERP).
Courses with technological innovations.Number of courses with technological innovations 
within the framework of the UC educational project 
and incorporating new technological infrastructure.
Online undergraduate courses.Number of online undergraduate courses offered each 
year and students enrolled in them.
100% online master's degree programs.Number of 100% online master's degree programs 
offered each year and students enrolled.Alumni in the public sector or in NGOs, 
foundations, or other non-profit institutions.Percentage of graduates from the last 5 years working 
in the public sector or in NGOs, foundations, or other 
non-profit institutions, based on the annual survey of 
UC graduates.
Interest of UC graduates to work in the public 
sector.Percentage of graduates of the last 5 years who de-
clare to be interested in working in the public sector, 
based on the annual survey of UC graduates.
Contribution of the UC to the promotion of 
public interest and the common good during the 
educational process.Percentage of graduates who state that the UC 
contributed to: (1) their interest in public issues, (2) 
their commitment to the country, (3) their citizenship 
training, and (4) their social conscience, based on the 
annual survey of UC graduates (survey of graduates 
of the last 5 years of all degree programs).
Index of public presence in complementary stan-
dards.Index to be built, based on the complementary 
standards currently in use for the evaluation of 
academic work, considering the different academic 
profiles and categories.
Presence of Latin American students in graduate 
and continuing education programs.Annual amounts associated with income from  
graduate and continuing education.
UC Endowment  Fund.Amounts (in millions of dollars) of the Endowment  
Fund.
Income from services and participation in  
start-ups.Annual amounts associated with income from services 
and participation in start-ups.
High-impact projects with related institutions.Number of large-scale, high-impact projects 
generated with the main related institutions.
CO2 emissions.Greenhouse gas emissions (carbon dioxide, CO2) 
generated by the UC each year.
Internalized housekeeping and gardening.Percentage of contracts for the provision of cleaning 
and garden maintenance services with external 
companies terminated due to the internalization of  
the work./DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION /EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES /DEEPENING INTERNATIONALIZATION
/PUBLIC ROLE AND  
ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY /INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENTINDICADORES
AXIS INDICATOR OR MILESTONE DESCRIPTION AXIS INDICATOR OR MILESTONE DESCRIPTION
101ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Members of the University Superior Council 
Ignacio Sánchez, President/University President
Presbyter Tomás Scherz, Vice Chancellor
Guillermo Marshall, Provost
Patricio Donoso, Provost for Institutional Management
Cristina Fernández, Secretary General 
Fernando Purcell,  Vice President for Academic Affairs   
Pedro Bouchon, Vice President for Research
María Loreto Massanés, Vice President of Finance  
Magdalena Amenábar, Vice President of Communications  
Lilian Ferrer, Vice President for International Affairs
Rodrigo Figueroa, Dean of the Faculty of Agronomy and Forestry Engineering  
Mario Ubilla, Dean of the Faculty of Architecture, Design and Urban Studies 
Alexei Vergara, Dean of the Faculty of Arts
Juan Correa, Dean of the Faculty of Biological Sciences
José Miguel Sánchez, Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Administration
Eduardo Valenzuela, Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences 
María Paulina Gómez, Dean of the Faculty of Communications  
Gabriel Bocksang, Dean of Law
Lorena Medina, Dean of the Faculty of Education 
Olof Page, Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy 
Máximo Bañados, Dean of the Faculty of Physics
Patricio Bernedo, Dean of the Faculty of History, Geography and Political Science
Juan Carlos De la Llera, Dean of Engineering
Patricio Lizama, Dean of the Faculty of Letters  
Mario Ponce, Dean of the Faculty of Mathematics 
Felipe Heusser, Dean of Medicine
Alejandro Toro, Dean of the Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy
Fernando Berríos, Dean of the Faculty of Theology 
Loreto Valenzuela, Director College UC 
Gonzalo Valdivieso, Director of the Villarrica Campus 
Alejandro Jara, Academician of the Faculty of Mathematics
Claudio Rolle, Academician of the Faculty of History, Geography and Political Science 
Paz Cox, Academician of the Faculty of Architecture, Design and Urban Studies 
Patricia García, Academician of the Faculty of Medicine
Carolina Méndez, Director of Student Affairs, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Marisol Urrutia, Deputy Secretary General, University General Secretariat
Amaranta Valdivieso, President of the Student Union (FEUC)
Magda Cottet, Senior Advisor

103 102
2020 • 2025 DEVELOPMENT PLANParticipants in working groups and attendees at the 2020 
University Superior Council
Ana María Sepúlveda, Executive Director and Head of International Engagement, Office of the Vice 
President for International Affairs
Bárbara Loeb, Academician of the Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy
Bárbara Prieto, Director of Institutional Analysis and Planning, Office of the Provost
Benjamín Cruz, Director of Pastoral Ministry and Christian Culture
Carlos Frontaura, Academician of the Faculty of Law
Catalina García, Director of Inclusion, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Chantal Jouannet, Director of the Center for Teacher Development, Office of the Vice President for 
Academic Affairs 
Claudia Leiva, Director of the Office of Data and Information Governance, Office of the Provost
Diego Cosmelli, Director of the Graduate School, Office of the Vice President for Research
Enrique Muñoz, Academician of the Faculty of Philosophy
Fernanda Vicuña, Director of Human Resources, Office of the Vice President of Finance
Presbyter Fernando Valdivieso, University Chaplain
Francisca Reyes, Academician of the Faculty of History, Geography and Political Science 
Francisco Bravo, Director of Budget and Finance, Office of the Vice President of Finance
Gonzalo Pizarro, Director for Academic Programs, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Ignacia Torres, Executive Director, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Ignacio Irarrázabal, Director of the Public Policy Center, Office of the Provost
Ingrid Rosales, Executive Director, Office of the Vice President of Finance
Isabel Catoni, Director of the School of Nursing
Jorge Manzi, Director of Mide UC, Academician of the Faculty of Social Sciences
Jorge Sahd, Director of the Center for International Studies
José Miguel Burmeister, Director of Legal Affairs, Office of the Provost for Institutional Management
Juan Carlos Muñoz, Director of the Institute for Sustainable Development
Juan Echeverría, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Juan Larraín, Academician of the Faculty of Biological Sciences
Luis Ibáñez, Academician of the Faculty of Medicine
Luz Montero, Director of UC Online, Office of the Provost for Institutional Management
María Elena Boisier, Director of Research, Office of the Vice President for Research
Mariane Krause, Director of the Millennium Institute for Depression and Personality Research, 
Academician of the Faculty of Social Sciences
Mariano de la Maza, Academician of the Faculty of Philosophy
Maribel Flórez, Director of Global Learning, Office of the Vice President for International Affairs
Maryon Urbina, Director of Sustainability, Office of the Provost
Miryam Singer, Director of Arts and Culture, Office of the Vice President for Research
Osvaldo Larrañaga, Director of the School of Government
Pablo Chiuminatto, Academician of the Faculty of Letters
Pablo González, PACE UC Coordinator, Office of Inclusion, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs 
Patricia Masalán, UC Ombuds
Paula Bedregal, Academician of the Faculty of Medicine
Paulina Dreyer, Executive Director, Office of the Provost for Institutional Management
Ricardo Rosas, Director of the Center for the Development of Inclusive Technologies, Academician of 
the Faculty of Social SciencesRoberto González, Academician of the Faculty of Social Sciences
Roberto Méndez, Academician of the School of Government
Roberto Price, Director of Information Technology, Office of the Vice President for Finance
Shirley Booth, Director of Academic Records, Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
Silvana Zanlungo, Director of Academic Development and Gender Equality, Office of the Vice President 
for Academic Affairs
Verónica Guarda, Director of Communications, Office of the Vice President of Communications
Organizers and participants in La UC Dialoga 2020
Organizers:
Magdalena Amenábar, Vice President for Communications 
Verónica Guarda, Director of Communications 
Magdalena Cobo, General Producer of La UC Dialoga.
Participantes:
500 participants in 4 days
8 motivators
45 moderators
Edition and design of the 2020-2025 Development Plan
Editing:
Bárbara Prieto, Director of Institutional Analysis and Planning, Office of the Provost
Design:  
María Soledad Hola, Director  
Catalina Fuentes, Soledad Tirapegui, Fernanda Ulloa y María Inés Vargas, Designers,  
Office of Corporate Design, Vice Presidency of Communications

Due to sustainability reasons, this 
publication will be distributed mainly in 
digital form. Only 150 copies have been 
reproduced on recycled and certified 
paper, with vegetable-based inks 
certified to be free of toxic materials.
Printed in workshops with clean 
production agreement (APL) and 
PEFC certification, which guarantees 
sustainable forest management.
PLAN
2020 • 2025DEVELOPMENT
