
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  VISION FOR THE SECOND CENTURY, SECOND DECADE (V2C2) 
Rice University’s Strategic Plan 
The Vision for the Second Century, Second Decade (V2C2) builds upon the Vision for the Second Century 
(V2C) that was launched 12 years ago, taking account of  our achievements, our evolving aspirations and needs, and a changing world.  The V2C2 is intended to raise our achievement to an even greater level as we approach the second decade of  our second century.  The V2C2 sets forth seven broad goals, each consist -
ing of  a number of  more specific aims that will enable us to achieve those goals. 
We elaborate in this supporting document the seven goals of  the V2C2 and provide greater detail and back-
ground on those aspirations and the specific elements they contain. Comments and suggestions from all parts of  our community — faculty, students, staff, alumni and others — helped shaped both the V2C2 and this supporting document. The final text very much reflects the range of thoughtful feedback and ideas we 
received in response to our circulation of framing questions in February 2017 and a draft of the V2C2 in October, as well as numerous meetings and presentations in late 2016 and throughout 2017. 
Rice University opened in fall 1912, and thus the second decade of  our second century stretches from 
2022 until 2032.  The V2C2 should guide our priorities at least to the middle of  that decade, and thus for approximately the next 10 years. What are the measures that we can take that will position us to be more successful and more competitive as a university in each of  our missions — teaching, research and service — over the next decade?  
At the same time, however, we recognize that we are in a rapidly changing world, and if  anything, that rate 
of  change may accelerate. This requires that we anticipate and take account of  those changes as best we can, and that we be prepared to constantly adapt as changes unfold. 
These potential changes affect almost every aspect of  our enterprise. Knowledge regarding educational 
effectiveness is being pursued as never before and changing the way we think about teaching and curricula. Technology is disrupting the way education is delivered and assessed. The financial streams that support higher education are under pressure: tuition discount rates might rapidly increase to make education more affordable to a wider range of students; governmental support of research may decrease; and endowment returns might turn out to be even less reliable than they are now. Competition in both the research and ed -
ucation spheres is increasingly global. An increasing number of universities are no longer confined to one 
physical place, or indeed to any physical place at all.  
As we contemplate our strategies and need to adapt, we seek not only to be aware of  these changes, but 
to be leaders in anticipating them and evolving our strategies for success. Elements of this plan seek to do exactly that, or at least explore new strategies in contemplation of these changes, while also aiming to 
preserve the distinctive aspects of  Rice that will continue to serve us well. But if  we are to be truly suc -
cessful in the long run, we must foster not only the conversations about the next decade, but also creative and visionary conversations that might help us anticipate the university of  the mid-21st century as we then approach our 150th anniversary. To that end, Rice will consciously support such conversations as part of implementing the V2C2. And we will regularly review our goals and assess our progress. 
In addition to educating and advancing knowledge in fulfillment of our mission, we must recognize the 
increasing importance of  communicating about what we do as a university, and what universities do collec -
tively, to contribute to our city, our nation and our world. It is undeniable that the position of  institutions 
of  higher education has declined among the public and among many of  our political leaders. A dangerous skepticism about the value of scientific research and the role of universities in objectively pursuing knowl -
edge has arisen. We cannot rely on others to communicate and explain the value of our endeavors and 
contributions, but must pursue that task as part of  our responsibility. 
1 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provide Transformative Undergraduate Education. 
Through exceptional teaching, faculty mentoring and experi-
ential opportunities, we will produce graduates who have the broad intellectual and international perspectives, critical think -
ing capabilities and creative problem-solving skills to be lead-ers and contributors to our world. 
Rice University has, throughout its history, been rec-
ognized for and even identified by the excellence of its 
undergraduate educational programs. For example, Rice was recently ranked third among national research uni-versities for “commitment to undergraduate teaching.” National research presented in the Gallup-Purdue Index study of 60,000 recent college graduates confirmed that 
students were twice as likely to view their college expe-
rience as worth the cost if  they had supportive relation-ships with professors and mentors. The study also con-firmed the importance and desirability of experiential 
learning opportunities ranging from internships related to their field of study, active involvement in extracur -
ricular activities or completion of a project that took a 
semester or more. 
More than at any time in history, the best undergraduate 
education demands much more than excellent classroom education, although that remains a fundamental element. In discussions and surveys leading to the creation of  the strategic plan, our faculty have clearly voiced their desire for strengthening our commitment to teaching and advis-ing with increased engagement of  students and faculty in the classroom, in the residential colleges, in research and scholarship, and in experiential learning. Student surveys have reported that over 80 percent of seniors graduating in 2016 were satisfied with the intellectual excitement, quality of  instruction and availability of  faculty at Rice. However, the Student Association’s 2017 Teaching Study reported that only about 55 percent of  students inter -
act more than once a month with faculty outside of  the classroom. The 2017 Student Association 100 Ideas (SA 100 Ideas) initiative generated several suggestions that involved enhancing faculty-student engagement. 
Given the widespread enthusiasm for these priorities, 
Rice can position itself  to be the preeminent research university that provides the very best undergraduate ed -
ucation and preparation for leadership and impact. Our shared values in this regard enable our recruitment of extraordinary faculty and staff  to implement this vision. We must sustain the excellence of the classroom and 
curricular experience and strengthen faculty-student interaction across a range of educational contexts. A 
broad-based education that fosters the development of critical thinking lies at the foundation of  our undergrad -
uate educational mission. Rice has been recognized as providing both outstanding liberal arts education and strong professional education in areas such as engineer -
ing, architecture and music. The richness of the Rice ex-
perience draws strongly on both traditions. 
Providing the very best in classroom teaching is therefore 
vital. We must continue to implement evidence-based in-novations in teaching and learning and support teach-ing improvement. The Center for Teaching Excellence, which is led by extraordinary faculty fellows representing 
the entire campus and by a talented professional staff, has been impactful to this end. Rice students are increas-ingly interested in different ways of  accessing informa-tion, in new ways of interacting with faculty and in new approaches to assessing their learning. Some of  these approaches will make use of  Rice’s strengths in digital education resources and methods. Some will focus on the development of  core skills, as is the case with our successful Program for Written, Oral and Visual Com-munication. Some will arise from strengthening older techniques enhanced by greater understanding through faculty-led research. And some of  these approaches will arise from rethinking curricular offerings to respond to emerging student interests for new and interdisciplinary courses and majors. We need to encourage and recognize faculty who are driven to excel as teachers and educa -
tional innovators. 
Rice has excelled at providing the highest quality facul -
ty-mentored research, scholarship, creative endeavors 
and team-based projects. With appropriate support, many more opportunities could be created. Various academic areas would like to see an expansion of the 
“kitchen” environment, as pioneered by the hugely suc -
cessful Oshman Engineering Design Kitchen, where stu -
dents learn by creating, experimenting and implement -
ing. Among the suggestions put forth under the SA 100 Ideas initiative was a summer research grant for which students submit a research proposal. If  the proposal is 
2 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 accepted, the grant would provide the student with a fac -
ulty mentor and a stipend to support living expenses. In 
addition, within the past year, faculty members and stu -
dents worked together to strengthen inquiry-based learn-ing opportunities, focusing on those elements of  the undergraduate experience that faculty and students find most valuable. The research grant and advancements in inquiry-based learning are time-intensive efforts for both faculty and students, and we must enable them to make such engagements a priority. 
Rice has also become a national leader in creating and 
publishing online courses and digital education resourc-es. A survey of our students indicated that they expect 
such technologies to be used as part of  their campus experience. Utilization of such resources can enhance 
learning and deepen student-faculty interactions in the classroom and in other campus environments. 
Rice’s small size and residential college system give fac -
ulty a unique role in mentoring, academic advising and 
helping connect students to resources on and off  cam-pus. Approximately one-third of the faculty serve as 
college associates. In addition, college magisters support students within the colleges and promote the involve -
ment of  all faculty in residential student life. Students value this involvement highly, and have expressed inter -
est in increasing informal engagements with faculty. The SA 100 Ideas includes recommendations to foster or -
ganic connections that often happen over a casual lunch, sporting event or through discussions in connection with outside scholarly events. 
International study and research experiences will be in-
creased, especially those with faculty participation. The internationalization of the student experience is achieved 
by incorporating more international components in our curriculum, including travel experiences such as in-coun -
try language programs, summer Rice programs and trav-el embedded in course studies. It is also reflected in the internationalization of  our student body, where we have made great progress and must continue to do so. Inter -
national experiences — whether in formal study abroad programs, research collaborations, service outreach or internships — enrich multicultural and multinational understanding and prepare our students for work and service in a global economy. Rice is situated in Hous-ton, a highly international city and a city that is culturally and logistically a gateway to Central and South America. Rice is thus very well positioned to be a leader in afford-ing our students outstanding international experiences. However, to involve more students, we must provide a wider range of  possibilities for such participation, low-er curricular and other barriers, and assure all students access to international experiences, regardless of their 
financial resources. 
Learning through real-world problem-solving, leader -
ship experience, entrepreneurial opportunities, commu-
nication training, internships, mentoring and preparation for graduate education must play an increasing role in the education of our undergraduates. Experiential and 
professional development opportunities have expand-ed tremendously over the past 10 years. The Center for Civic Leadership was established to teach our students how to understand local cultural context and then equip them with the skills to have an impact on communities. We strengthened our commitment to career planning through the Center for Career Development, launched the Sallyportal to connect Rice students and alumni, and created the Owl Edge Externship program to use those connections and give our students career experiences. The Doerr Institute for New Leaders, the Rice Center for Engineering Leadership, Rice 360°, the Baker Insti -
tute for Public Policy’s Jesse Jones internship program, the School of Social Sciences’ Gateway program and the School of Humanities’ HEDGE program all provide unique opportunities for self-development, real-world experience and professional development. 
We must also play a role in fostering a culture of  entre -
preneurism and innovation among our students and pro -
vide related educational and experiential opportunities. 
We launched the Liu Idea Lab for Innovation and En-trepreneurship and the student-driven OwlSpark, which give students an early opportunity to transform ideas into practice and learn from that process. All of  these ef -
forts provide a foundation on which to build and assure that our graduates emerge with the leadership skills they will need to succeed. We will achieve the greatest success when learning from such activities is integrated with the classroom experience. 
Our employer partners tell us that the most valuable at-
tributes in new employees are communication skills and the ability to solve problems while working in teams. 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 Rice is committed to integrating these experiences in all 
phases of the undergraduate experience. With Hous-
ton’s strong economy and significant alumni base, Rice is well-positioned to create many opportunities through practicum, community-based research projects, intern-ships and externships. Such opportunities can also serve to develop a strong sense of  civic responsibility in our students. Faculty and staff  in programs such as Academ-ic Advising and the Center for Career Development, along with members of  our graduate student, alumni and parent communities, serve as advisers and mentors to assist students with understanding their options and building meaningful experiences. 
The inculcation of  leadership and team-building skills 
occurs in a wide range of contexts on our campus, in-
cluding through such activities as intercollegiate athletics, intramural sports, community volunteering, and partici -
pation in student organizations and college governance. These remain an important part of the student experi-
ence that must be nourished and, where possible, inte -
grated with formalized learning opportunities. 
Our curriculum would benefit from greater flexibility 
that allows students to pursue the kinds of experienc -
es and breadth of  educational opportunities that we have been developing and that we envision. The strict and heavy requirements for certain majors, competition schedules of  our athletes and performance demands on our music students often limit students’ ability to engage in the many educational opportunities available to them. Another possibility could include reorganizing the ac-ademic calendar to provide for short-term courses for credit. Equally important, we must be cognizant of  and address the potential impact on student workloads and mental and physical well-being as they engage in a wider range of  educational opportunities. We must assure that any student who wishes to have a high-impact experi-ence has the information about the availability of  such opportunities and the financial resources to participate. As our curriculum, research opportunities, cocurricular and extracurricular programs become more robust, the need is even greater for academic advising and for faculty guidance as students navigate the complex choices they face during their time at Rice. We must implement a new vision of  our Central Quad and provide the spaces that support a more engaged and collaborative educational environment. Our campus has been a vital resource in bringing students and faculty together to collaborate and create. Recent examples of new spaces that help transform educational opportunity have been the Oshman Engineering Design Kitchen and the Moody Center for the Arts. The planned Music and Performing Arts Center (RUMPAC) will greatly enhance our music program, provide a new performance space for theater and provide a venue for Rice to host major speakers of  national and global importance. We have and will continue to invest in the renovation of  our colleges and in our teaching and research facilities. Although the percentage of  undergraduate students housed on our campus increased as part of the expansion of the un-
dergraduate student body, we should aim to increase that percentage to at least 80 percent as we renovate and slightly expand some of the existing residential colleges. 
Rice students have a special connection with our cam-pus, and it is important to maintain its beauty and vitality as well as its functionality. Enhancements to several ath-letic facilities have created more dynamic spaces for our athletes and fans. 
The addition of  the Brochstein Pavilion and the Gibbs 
Recreation Center, located diagonally across from the Rice Memorial Center, as well as modest renovations of Fondren Library and the RMC, have strongly supported the vision of  the Central Quad as the academic hub and focal point of  the university. Yet it is clear that we need to do more to create the kinds of  spaces that support student and faculty interaction and vitality. We now en-vision “Central Quad 4.0,” encompassing a substantial renovation of Fondren Library and the RMC, including the addition of a multicultural center, and ultimately a new flexible classroom building to include vibrant spac-es for education, reflection, collaboration and creativity. Such spaces, when flexibly and well designed, can play an important role in fostering the education and experienc -
es that develop the collaboration, leadership and innova-tion skills vital to success. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Build Nationally and Internationally Renowned 
Graduate Programs. 
We will be a premier choice for the most promising graduate 
students and empower success in their chosen careers by pro-viding outstanding faculty, the best educational programs, ex -
traordinary research opportunities, effective mentoring and a vibrant graduate community. 
Graduate students have steadily made up a greater por -
tion of our community and now constitute approxi-
mately 43 percent of  our student body. While Rice has a 
number of truly extraordinary graduate programs, over -
all our graduate programs have not consistently achieved a quality and reputation at the level of  our undergraduate programs. Over the next 10 years, we must make sub-
stantial progress in raising the success and profile of our 
graduate programs and scholars. 
Outstanding graduate programs are essential to our 
broader success and reputation as a research university. Strong graduate programs play a critical role in driving the intellectual vigor of  the university and bringing to fruition the ideas, insights and expertise of our faculty. 
World-class graduate students support scholarship, en-hance research and mentoring opportunities for under -
graduates and are often a vital component of  securing research grants. Graduate program alumni play import -
ant roles in the global community, serve as mentors to both undergraduate and graduate students, and enhance Rice’s reputation. 
The very best graduate programs are built on the best 
research opportunities, a vibrant community of  distin -
guished faculty, outstanding postdoctoral scholars, state-of-the-art research infrastructure and facilities, and a strong intellectual and social community among graduate students. A core strength of  Rice graduate programs is the productivity generated by individual mentoring, cou -
pled with a focus on the success and wellbeing of  each scholar. 
We must strategically invest in those graduate programs 
that can achieve international preeminence with a goal of having significantly more programs in the very top 
echelon. Our initial goal is to have five graduate pro-grams ranked in the top 10 in the country, and 12 in the top 20. Our exceptionally strong graduate programs in music, architecture, electrical and computer engineering, and bioengineering exemplify how Rice can build and sustain internationally preeminent graduate programs. The Jones School of  Business has seen a rapid rise in its reputation over the last 15years, demonstrating how pro-grammatic improvement is driven by faculty vision and ambition, strategic leadership and achievement. We must invest in graduate programs largely by retaining and re-cruiting outstanding faculty and supporting their efforts to move a program into the highest echelon. While new investments must be focused and strategic, every depart -
ment should develop and pursue a strategy to increase the visibility and reputation of  its graduate programs. 
We should make strategic choices in creating new grad-
uate programs, especially those that leverage interdisci -
plinary strengths. The faculty should consider developing doctoral and master’s programs in newly strengthened departments and emerging interdisciplinary areas. Rice has a track record of  quickly making a strong impact with new programs. For example, our doctoral program in sociology was implemented in 2011 with the help of the Houston Endowment. All of the first three sociol-
ogy doctorates took tenure-track positions at research institutions. Art history’s first matriculants, supported by the Brown Foundation, are already making their mark, with three initial placements (academic and curational) and four top external fellowships. The new program in systems, synthetic and physical biology is already gener -
ating a steady stream of  NSF fellowships. The new Mas-ter of  Global Affairs and Master of  Energy Economics programs are placing graduates in influential positions in both local and global communities. 
Graduate education is becoming increasingly varied, and 
not all graduate education takes place on a physical cam-pus or results in a degree. Further development of grad-uate certificate programs would substantially strengthen our ability to provide the most outstanding advanced education. For example, our professional master’s pro-grams have promoted substantial relationships with in-dustry, and we would gain additional reach into the com-munity by admitting students into transcripted graduate certificate programs. Such programs would establish a much stronger relationship with private enterprise and would potentially enable us to offer these programs and others at lower cost to current Rice students and alum-ni. Some of the new master’s and certificate programs 
5 
 
 
 
 
 should take advantage of  online or blended education 
approaches. This is addressed in the Extending Rice’s Reach and Impact section. 
We must recruit the highest caliber graduate students. We 
must increase the number and quality of applicants to many of  our graduate programs, improve the selectiv-ity of  admissions decisions and increase our yield. Ap-plications to doctoral programs have grown by roughly 15 percent over the last seven years. We must be more aggressive in proactively recruiting applicants (as we are at the undergraduate level) nationally and international-ly. We should significantly increase doctoral enrollment by focusing on those departments positioned to attract high caliber students and funding. While some expansion of  our graduate programs is desirable, we should focus on quality and aim to double the number of new doc-toral students who win major national and international awards. 
Each department or program must have a recruitment 
outreach plan that is designed to reach as many high cali-ber prospective applicants and their academic advisers as possible. While many of  our graduate programs already have such plans, all should become as selective as our un-dergraduate programs. We should review an assemblage of  quantitative and qualitative admissions metrics to as-sess improvement and compare our success with peer institutions. Doctoral programs that cannot be put on a path to competitive excellence (measured by both re-cruitment and outcome criteria) should be discontinued and the resources used to build other, more focused or interdisciplinary strengths in graduate education. 
Growth in quality can best be achieved by assuring we 
build pipelines of applicants and recruit excellent stu -
dents effectively from all segments of  the population to engage a student body that reflects a breadth of ex-
periences, expertise and perspective. This is addressed further in the goal Expand Access, Diversity and Inclu -
siveness. We must also tap into the strength of  our under -
graduate population to enhance our graduate programs. Historically, some of  our most outstanding graduate students have been Rice undergraduates. We should fa-cilitate bachelor’s/master’s degree combinations for our undergraduates. Many Rice undergraduates would prefer a master’s degree over a second major, and we should make earning these more achievable. Distinguished pro-grams that include this component have the potential to enhance both graduate and undergraduate recruitment. We must also expand our outreach in recruiting and de -
veloping international scholars. Our location in Houston provides unique opportunities, and we must continue to build upon our strong and productive interactions with the global community. We have been extremely success -
ful in recruiting graduate students from Asia. Both our city’s cultural makeup and our position as a gateway to Latin America are compelling reasons to focus on our southern neighbors. We must undertake systematic and proactive approaches to building relationships with gov-ernments, universities and private enterprise in Mexico and Central and South America to become a magnet for students from those areas who seek opportunities for graduate study. Dual degree programs, such as the his-tory department’s with a university in Brazil and another in Mexico, may be one means. We must seek appropriate supplemental sources of  funding for recruiting graduate students from these areas. 
We must provide competitive stipends. Competition for 
the best graduate students is intense, and financial sup-port plays an important role. Rice has sought to provide stipend levels that are competitive with those offered by our peers and must continue to do so by raising new money, developing income-earning degree programs, reallocating within departments or schools, or offering larger stipends to fewer students. We must fund more named scholarships and first-year fellowship bonuses. We must continue to ensure that graduate students have access to appropriate funds to support their research, in-cluding support for professional conference attendance and travel for research. 
We must provide the professional development oppor -
tunities to enable graduate students to achieve their 
goals. We must support areas of  professional develop-ment, including opportunities for teaching, developing communication skills, exposure to professional settings, professional networking and career development along with mentoring from faculty, staff  and Rice alumni. A key measure of  success is how well departments succeed at placing graduates in the career path to which they as-pire. We must prepare graduates who are able to excel 
and compete nationally and internationally in academia, private enterprise, government and public service. 
6 
 
 
 
  
 
 We must invest in programs and facilities that build so-
cial cohesion among our graduate students and assure them an unrivaled experience as a vital part of the Rice 
community. Graduate students, like all students, thrive best in environments with a strong sense of  community. Increasingly, graduate student applicants seek that sense of community and engagement in addition to the quality of  their research opportunities. This requires appropri -
ate physical facilities. The outdoor space near Keck Hall and Valhalla, for example, has had enormous impact. Even the small graduate student lounge has been well-re -
ceived. A critical element of  “Central Quad 4.0” (reno-vation of  the library and student center discussed above) must be the expansion of facilities devoted to fostering 
the graduate student community. 
Many of our students who chose us over top-five ranked 
programs say they did so because our students under -
take great scholarship while having unusually positive 
relationships with the faculty and enjoying the benefits of  being part of  a university. We should consider de -
veloping a graduate college and enhance student life in our existing graduate housing. A graduate college would be a focal point for social interactions, professional net -
working and development, dining with fellow graduate students and faculty, and housing for a modest number of  graduate students. The scale would be similar to that of  one of  our undergraduate colleges. We can gain sub-stantially by emulating approaches that have proven to be successful with our undergraduates, while attending to the different time obligations and stage of  life of  our graduate student population. Invest in Faculty to Achieve Preeminence. 
We will foster faculty innovation and accomplishment in ed-ucation, research and artistic endeavors, and make additional investments in targeted areas to reach the highest levels of achievement and recognition. 
The contributions and reputation of  universities are 
built primarily on the quality of  their faculty. Rice de -
mands that its faculty achieve excellence in research and teaching, as both endeavors are vital to our mission and strengthen almost every aspect of  the university, from raising Rice’s national and international research profile to assuring that Rice is a leader in quality graduate and undergraduate education. 
Rice’s scale helps foster collegial and collaborative re-
search and teaching environments, allowing us to attract the best faculty who seek collaborators in and outside their disciplines. At the same time, our scale requires us to be strategic in making choices for faculty investments. We must be attentive to both our teaching needs and our research strengths and strategies. Sometimes a strategy requires a focus on particular departments, sometimes on more focused endeavors within a department, and sometimes on interdisciplinary endeavors that build on synergistic strengths across departments. 
For example, while many music schools include orches -
tral training, jazz, theater, opera, classical dance, modern 
dance, chamber music, voice, acting and more, the Shep-herd School has maintained a focus on orchestral train-ing, chamber music and opera. As a result, we now have a top-ranked (perhaps the best) orchestral training pro -
gram in the country.  We are well on our way to achieving the same in opera and chamber music. 
Similarly, our highly ranked electrical and computer engi -
neering department has strategically focused on data sci -
ence, nanophotonics, systems (such as wireless networks 
and the internet of  things), neuroengineering and, most recently, scalable health. Its excellent ranking results from its preeminence in these areas. Physics has built its repu-tation in significant part on AMO (atomic, molecular and optical) and condensed matter. In all these and other cas -
es, we could not have achieved this level of  accomplish-ment and recognition for the department had we chosen 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 to pursue a faculty member or two in every possible area. 
A number of  departments, in every school, have made similar focused choices that have raised their impact and profile, and with that the reputation and success of the 
respective school and the university. 
Materials/nanotechnology is an example of creating a 
long-term research and scholarly environment that has 
positioned Rice to attract and retain top faculty who not only undertake cutting-edge research, but also pro-vide superior teaching in the classroom and labs. Our early successes depended on both high-performing fac -
ulty and the right equipment and facilities. Our initial and continuing investment has resulted in some $230 million in extramural funding in the past 20 years. Our current materials/nanotechnology faculty are among the very best in the world, and their work substantially raises Rice’s institutional profile. Our recent molecular nanotechnology initiative infuses additional investment to ensure our prominence, as does our decision to con-struct a new state-of-the-art clean room. In building our faculty, we must also pay close attention to where our teaching needs are, especially as student choices evolve over time. Most recently, as at other universities we have seen a rapid rise in the demand for engineering in partic -
ular. An outstanding faculty across the disciplines is an investment in our core mission that provides a consistent return to the university, as these scholars and researchers position Rice to handle future research and educational challenges and goals. The best faculty quickly recognize and adapt to changes going on in their fields, in inter -
disciplinary connections and in higher education more broadly. 
We must identify areas where we can build on our 
strengths to develop internationally ranked disciplines and programs. In selecting areas for strategic priorities, we need to emphasize targeted investments where we have a strong enough base to become a true international leader. Such investments may be at the interdisciplinary, disciplinary or subdisciplinary specialty level. Because of our small size, we are more likely to achieve large impact in interdisciplinary areas. Thus, we must develop strate -
gies that build interdisciplinary efforts that will also en-hance departmental achievement and reputation. 
The universitywide Data Science Initiative represents a 
recent example of making a strategic choice and then investing. The initiative couples our historic strengths in quantitative approaches (computer science, electrical and computer engineering, statistics, and computational and applied mathematics) with our universitywide interests in applied analysis. With multiple recent new hires in key areas, and more than 150 current faculty participating at some level in data science activities, the campus is be-coming a vibrant home and attractor for those wishing to immerse themselves in a stimulating data science envi-ronment. Parallel investment in information technology infrastructure has been critical to our successes. We have the potential, with some additional investment in faculty and facilities (particularly in the core departments listed above), to break through as a true national leader in data science. Exciting new programs in the School of Social 
Sciences and the Kinder Institute position Rice to be a leader in data driven policy analysis. 
In the area of  disparities research, we have made parallel 
investments in multiple departments and thereby created venues for collaboration. These investments include: the new sociology graduate program, as well as recent hires in the department focused on disparities research and teaching; the Kinder Institute, along with the expanded research agenda of faculty associated with the institute; support of  key initiatives in racial and gender dispari-ties in the School of  Humanities; and a cohort of  Rice Academy of  Postdoctoral Fellows focused on disparities. We are especially well-situated to achieve preeminence in disparities research related to education, housing and health. 
Similarly, our recruitment and research success in build-
ing the Rice Center for Theoretical Biological Physics has positioned that endeavor to be a world leader. Si-multaneously, the return on a significant augmentation is likely high in the environment (more broadly: earth, sustainability, environment and energy), the intersection of  engineering and medicine, systems and synthetic biol -
ogy, materials, aspects of  global health and the future of cities. We are also developing a strong presence in new learning technologies and data-driven assessments of learning. All of  these interdisciplinary areas take advan-tage of  our Houston location and enhance our ability to contribute to our home city.  Within these areas we will need to find a focus that enables us to create programs of distinctive excellence. For example, neuroengineering 
and global health are poised at Rice to build strongly at the intersection of  medicine and engineering.  
8 
 
 
 Several areas that are more disciplinary appear ripe for 
targeted investments. These include, for example, philos-ophy and mathematics. 
We should use regular departmental and school external 
review processes to gather input and information that 
can inform our strategies and priorities as we assess our strengths and weaknesses. Such reviews can also be an important opportunity to communicate our excellence to our academic peers. As we seek major emergent col-laborative trends, we must also continue to support the research and creative work by individual faculty members that is more typical of  the humanities and fine arts. 
We must make targeted cluster and individual hires to 
support strategic programmatic leaps. We must re-cruit and support high-impact senior faculty, retain our most accomplished faculty, and consistently nurture the growth and development of  our rising star assistant and associate professors. Such faculty, especially when fully engaged in the university, contribute disproportionately to our research success and broader recognition. They can enable the recruitment of  remarkable clusters at both the junior and senior level and draw both gradu-ate and undergraduate students. Often, they are uniquely positioned to build intellectual bridges and teams across disciplines. These faculty and the teams they build are most likely to produce the research breakthroughs that are recognized around the world. These thought leaders can significantly extend the reach and impact of Rice and 
push the university to innovations in research and teach-ing. Such appointments can usually be made only when we are adding to existing strength or hiring a faculty clus -
ter and can assure the very best in colleagues, research facilities and equipment. 
We must ensure a continued and deepened collaborative 
environment within the university and with external part -
ners. Given our comparatively small size and optimally situated urban location, collaboration is an opportunity and a necessity. Fundamental research in the pursuit of knowledge is central to the distinct role of  a university. Rice has the potential for local, national and global im-pact in pure, applied and translational research. We have a long history of  working successfully within and across disciplines as well as collaborating externally with local industry and institutions, such as those in the medical center and museum district. A collegial and collaborative environment, internally and externally, is critical for na-noscientists seeking to develop dynamic new materials, political scientists working to understand election trends, or art historians and anthropologists analyzing the im-pact of  the destruction of  the Palmyra site. Rice’s already low barriers to collaboration are a strength, but we must work to further reduce those barriers to facilitate great discoveries at the interface of  different disciplines. We must review current practices, such as promotion and tenure and resource allocation, to evaluate how best to align these practices with the goal of  supporting collab-oration and excellence. Where appropriate, we should foster faculty-sharing arrangements with other academ -
ic institutions, as such faculty members can help build deeper collaborations. 
We must make Rice a destination for scholars and 
thought leaders from around the world. Even with an outstanding faculty and the underlying support resources they require, Rice will benefit substantially from having agile platforms to engage scholars nationally and inter -
nationally. Thus, part of  the infrastructure we need to provide is administrative support and venues for confer -
ences and collaborations that make us a destination for and convener of  distinguished scholars from around the world. In all significant campus construction projects, we must consider opportunities to create the facilities that support this goal. 
Attracting the best faculty cannot be done in isolation 
from other goals. Our ability to recruit depends on many of  the goals discussed elsewhere in this document. We must assure the very best in research support, facilities and equipment. We must provide the resources and training that allow our faculty to contribute to a world-class educational experience for both undergraduate and graduate students. We must attract the very best graduate and undergraduate students. We must build and maintain a faculty that is diverse in background, experience and thought. We must provide an environment, including facilities that fosters interactions among faculty and stu -
dents and creates a strong sense of  community. Retaining outstanding faculty members, developing and promoting our stellar early- to midcareer faculty and hiring truly ex-ceptional faculty will accelerate funding and achievement in research, enhance educational opportunities for our students and generally contribute to the rising reputation of  the university.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  Expand Access, Diversity and Inclusiveness. 
We will provide the programs and financial support that attract 
and enable the success of outstanding graduate and undergrad-uate students from all backgrounds, and we will build diversity in all aspects among our faculty and staff. also need to do more to reach out to middle-class stu -
dents. We must continue the policies we have adopted to welcome and support the enrollment of  DACA, refu -
gee and other immigrant students. In addition, we must make sure that all students feel welcome, both as individ-uals and as members of  our communities.  
Our commitment to the goal of  building a diverse com-munity in all parts of the university reflects our funda-
mental “ideals of  human equality and potential, of  po-litical rights and participation, of  free inquiry and free expression, of religious freedom and tolerance, of diver -
sity and inclusion, of  creativity and innovation, and of the possibilities of  hard work and economic opportuni-ty.”  We treat all members of  the Rice community — of every race, nationality, religion, ethnicity, gender identity, sexuality and ability — with respect and appreciation. This includes those with whom we have deep disagree -
ments, recognizing that freedom of inquiry and expres-
sion are the foundation of  our enterprise. Problems are better solved and innovations are more creative when we infuse the learning and research environment with schol-ars, students and staff  who represent a wide range of  life experiences and perspectives across all disciplines. 
The impact of  our efforts to attract a greater breadth 
of  applicants is demonstrated in our latest entering class, in which approximately 19 percent of the domes -
tic students self-identified as Hispanic and 10 percent self-identified as African-American. The progress has been in socioeconomic backgrounds as well as in ethnic and racial categories, which creates an environment that enriches interactions, conversations and the opportuni -
ties to learn from one another. Although the numbers fluctuate significantly, we are enrolling substantially more low-income students than we did previously. Our success is also reflected in our multiyear No. 1 ranking by the Princeton Review for interaction among students from different ethnic, racial and socioeconomic backgrounds. Demographic trends impact the applicant pool. The population of  high school college applicants will remain relatively flat over the next 10 years and a larger portion of  the population of  high-potential college-age students will come from low-income families, including many who are underrepresented minorities. Currently available data suggest that there is a significant “undermatching” of  high-achieving low income (HALI) students with the best undergraduate colleges and university programs. We Although we have met with some success in diversify -
ing both the faculty and the graduate student body, it is much more limited, and that constrains our success for the academic experience. To come closer to our ideals, we must take a number of  actions that will enhance stu -
dent, faculty and staff recruitment and sustain an envi-ronment that maximizes opportunity and supports the inclusion and success of  all. 
We must enhance our recruitment of high achieving un-
dergraduate and graduate students from under-resourced and middle class backgrounds and provide programs that allow all students to thrive at Rice, including access to the full range of Rice experiences. Effective recruitment of 
the most outstanding students from low resource and middle-income backgrounds requires strong outreach and engagement efforts. Such students also often need demanding learning opportunities to supplement what may be available in their high schools.  We should there -
fore consider creating precollege, short-term residential summer programs that position Rice to engage with high-potential students earlier in their exploration pro-cess.  We should build upon our relationships with col-lege counselors and community leaders that can be con-nectors to high-potential students, with a focused effort toward HALI students, who include many underrepre-sented minority students. We have dramatically expanded our partnership with QuestBridge, a national program that seeks to match talented students from lower income families with selective universities, to become one of  its larger users, and we should maintain that engagement. We should also establish stronger recruitment programs of  the very best students from community colleges, es -
pecially in Houston. The goal of this extensive outreach 
is to support our tradition of  making the Rice education available to a broad population of  highly talented stu -
dents regardless of  their economic status. 
We must recognize that lower income students at the un-
dergraduate level, despite their talent, do not all come to Rice with the same level of academic experience and 
10 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 awareness of  practices necessary to succeed in a high-ly challenging academic environment as many of  their peers. We must provide the transitions that enable such success. For example, our undergraduate Rice Emerging Scholars Program has been successful at helping prepare these students for study in STEM fields, and that pro-
gram should be both increased and broadened. We must assure that our advising and mentoring programs are de -
signed to support all of  our lower income students. 
Unlike undergraduate admissions, graduate admissions 
take place in individual departments and schools. Nev-ertheless, we must implement universitywide practices that will improve our identification and recruitment of promising graduate students and build a pipeline for such students from the time they are undergraduates. We have, for example, had success with the Mellon Mays program. Programs to bring undergraduates from a va-riety of  backgrounds to Rice for summer research are essential. We should assure that our growing profession-al master’s programs also include opportunities for suit -
able candidates who may not have the resources at the outset to pay tuition. Mentorship is especially important for our graduate students from under-resourced back-grounds. Like their undergraduate colleagues, many may have been a first-generation college student — but most are first generation graduate students. Because lessons for success at the undergraduate level are not the same or sufficient at the graduate level, we must work to ensure appropriate programs are in place for this next stage of development in the lives of  our graduate students. Our goal is for students to attain a degree and a sense that they have achieved the ambitions that drove their deci -
sion to attend Rice. 
We must assure affordability by implementing finan-
cial aid policies that successfully attract students from low- and middle-income families. Over the last decade, we have greatly enhanced our financial aid along many dimensions, growing such aid for undergraduates from $23.6 million to $71.1 million, and eliminating borrowing requirements for families earning less than $80,000. This increase reflects the growth in enrollment, increased cost of  attendance and greater student need. Rice now funds financial aid from the operating budget, endowment and government funds. The increasing costs of  higher edu -
cation, constraints on raising the price of  tuition, reduc -
tions in governmental support and volatility in market returns on the endowment all create an environment of financial risk, particularly with a larger population 
of financial aid students and perhaps ones with higher 
average need. We must also more robustly address the needs of  students from middle-class families, who are increasingly finding themselves priced out of the best in 
private higher education. To accomplish these goals, we must increase the percentage of  support from dedicat -
ed endowed funding from the current 38 percent to 50 percent, which is more in line with our most competitive peers. This will require raising approximately $200 mil-lion in financial aid endowments. 
Meeting a student’s financial need should include funding 
or other mechanisms to assure that low- and middle-in -
come students can participate fully in opportunities for research, internships, and experiential, international and cocurricular learning experiences. No curricular or co-curricular enrichment opportunities should be offered at Rice without provision for participation by students from low- and middle-income backgrounds. We should consider creating a “student opportunity” fund and pro -
gram that would support one such distinctive opportuni -
ty for every student, based in part on their needs. While not delivered through the same financial aid system, this issue is relevant as well for graduate students, who may require additional support to, among other things, attend conferences, do archival research, take off  campus, in-tensive short courses or spend time as a visitor in a labo -
ratory to learn techniques at another university. 
We must undertake actions to draw international stu -
dents from a wider range of  countries and backgrounds 
around the world. Over the last decade, the percentage of  international students in the undergraduate student body has grown from approximately 3 percent to 11 per -
cent, and from a total enrollment of  about 80 students to over 400. International students have greatly enriched the experience for all students as well as for faculty and staff. However, because of  the very limited amount of financial aid for international students, we have been heavily dependent on a few countries for those students, and the vast majority (other than athletes and music stu -
dents) come from families who are able to provide or borrow the funds for tuition and other costs. We need to strategically identify countries where we can successfully increase recruitment and invest in those relationships. 
11 
  
 
 
 
 
 We should also identify increased targeted funding for 
graduate students. For example, we systematically pur -
sued an agreement with CONACYT, Mexico’s equiva-lent of  the National Science Foundation. This relation-ship has resulted in an influx of highly qualified graduate 
students from Mexico, all funded by the Mexican gov-ernment. We are undertaking parallel initiatives with several other countries. We must make it a priority to compete effectively for Fulbright Scholars. Programs to bring star international undergrads to Rice for course -
work or research have been very effective, and we should aggressively expand these to build relationships with fu -
ture graduate students. 
Ideally, we would want to assure financial aid on the same 
basis as for domestic students, but that is unlikely to be possible in the short run. Instead, we should aim to pro -
vide approximately $4 million per year in such aid, fund-ed largely by endowments raised for this purpose. 
We must accelerate progress in building a diverse fac -
ulty and work to retain and advance the careers of  fac-
ulty and academic leaders. In the past two years, our emphasis on faculty hiring has been on training search committees to review all candidates absent any implicit bias. We have also built advertising strategies, outreach efforts and pipeline tools that help schools, departments and search committees proactively reach out to diverse candidates and provided opportunities for these candi-dates to meet with our current faculty who can provide relevant perspective on Rice and Houston. We must continue our ongoing efforts and implement additional approaches to help departments identify high-potential faculty. We should consider, among other things, estab -
lishing a visiting scholars program; hosting conferences for NSF Graduate Research Fellows, Beinecke Scholars, Mellon-Mays Scholars and others; proactively soliciting a range of  scholars to participate in university seminar se -
ries and other intellectual activities on campus; network-ing with faculty colleagues across the country to identify early, promising graduate and postdoctoral students; and tracking our own Rice alumni who have pursued doctor -
ates.  We must continue to create an inclusive environment by achieving diversity in our staff and creating the programs and facilities that foster interaction and build understand-ing within our diverse Rice community. Students seek out role models, and our staff  members make substantial contributions in this arena, directly and indirectly, and to the success of  our inclusive environment. Although broadly our staff is extremely diverse, it is uneven across 
divisions and functions. We can also help foster an inclu -
sive environment by building strong relationships with the affinity groups among our alumni and making sure our students and others have interactions with them. 
Within the Rice community one will find a wide range of 
views and perspectives. We must embrace and encourage the robust and respectful exchange of ideas, and fully 
honor the freedom of expression and inquiry that are 
the foundation of  the academic enterprise. Our diver -
sity must not be merely a statistical achievement, but an opportunity for engagement, learning and collaboration. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Elevate Research Achievement and Reputation. 
We will elevate our research accomplishment to the highest lev-
el to advance human knowledge and creativity, and make vital contributions to the betterment of our world. 
Since its founding, Rice was envisioned as a great research 
institution with no upper limit to its educational endeav-or. Research and scholarly achievement at the highest level underlie Rice’s strong academic reputation. Raising our research achievement will provide greater educa -
tional opportunities for all of our students, both grad-uate and undergraduate. The university research mission thrives when curiosity and intellectual passion are fueled by strong interactions among faculty, staff, graduate and undergraduate students and partners in Houston and be-yond. Excellence in research also is the essential conduit for collaborative work with the community, government, industry and other universities. It is the foundation of our international partnerships.  
Research at Rice has real-world implications for our 
economy, our cities, our environment and our world. Through supporting and recruiting exceptional faculty and staff, generating research opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students and providing facilities and programmatic support, we must make Rice a preferred destination for conducting research and for scholarly ex-change. 
The competitive environment for research is intensify -
ing, particularly as government funding has flattened or 
been reduced. Our research goals should be aspirational and strategic, ambitious but achievable. We have demon-strated that when we make strategic investments, our re-search achievements accelerate. 
To be successful, our strategy must contain a number of 
elements. 
We must identify areas where we can truly excel in re-
search achievement and make bold investments in the best faculty, staff  and students to achieve our goals. Rice will produce short- and long-term success when we iden-tify emerging areas of study, stay on the leading edge of key areas ahead of  our peers and move quickly toward producing innovative research. When we arrive at an emerging intellectual field ahead of others, we become an international leader in those areas. In partnership with our faculty, staff  and students, we must create a clear vision for how to elucidate such areas and how to deter -
mine the investments they will need, whether it be fac -
ulty hires, equipment, research facilities and/or intra and interinstitutional partnerships. 
Through the Rice LIFT process and the V2C2 survey, 
faculty and other community members have put forth creative ideas for raising Rice’s research preeminence. One area ripe for growth and a more consolidated ap-proach is at the intersection of  engineering and medicine. The currently conceived Rice Engineering Medicine Ini-tiative (REMI) proposes that Rice, in collaboration with strategic external partners, will become an international leader in the development and translation of  ground-breaking engineering technologies for personalized med-ical applications, especially those that enable the effective and efficient prevention, treatment and management of diseases. In addition to our traditional collaborators in the TMC, this could create opportunities for innovative partnerships with impact investment entities, which can provide the tools to bridge the gap between technology demonstration in the lab (supported typically through federal funding) and full-scale commercial development (supported typically by private sector partnerships). Medicine and health care is a social process, and Rice is well positioned to include here the humanistic and social scientific dimensions of innovative health care, especially 
through our sociology department and the Program in Medical Humanities. 
In the sciences, materials and synthetic biology show 
tremendous promise as areas of  cutting-edge research in which Rice is already excelling. A strategic emphasis on materials would enable research from the very fun-damental to the applied, enabling a materials-by-design approach that includes the full cycle of synthesis/dis -
covery, characterization and predictive theoretical under -
standing. A focus on synthetic biology derives from the realization that in the coming decades, a new industry of biological technologies will transform nearly every aspect of  society, similar in impact to the computer and indus-trial revolutions of  the last two centuries. Fifteen years of  faculty efforts and more recent recruitments have put Rice in a unique position to be a leader in this scientific revolution through enhancement of  our Systems, Syn-thetic and Physical Biology (SSPB) program. 
13 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Also identified through faculty presentation and discus -
sions are a number of  local and global problems that our 
faculty and students are well positioned to study. Data structure, composition and analysis play an increasingly important role in nearly all areas of  research. Rice must continue to develop research, curriculum and scholarship to integrate data sciences into how we think about com-plex problems and invest in the excellence of fundamen-
tal competencies, such as computer science, electrical and computer engineering, computational and applied mathematics and statistics. Social sciences is developing a schoolwide strategy that focuses on data-driven social policy analysis. Social sciences and humanities also have a common interest and opportunity in the area of  disparity and inequality research — identifying the health, educa -
tion, employment and social challenges facing under-re -
sourced populations, now and in the past. Past inequities illuminate and in some cases have directly created the disparities of  today. As a comparatively small university, our greatest opportunities often lie in identifying those endeavors that will benefit from a deeply interdisciplin -
ary approach. For example, a combined effort on earth, environment (including climate) and energy will leverage faculty, staff and student interest and expertise across 
many disciplines. The same is true of  education and health. In the former, we may be well-positioned to in-tegrate understandings of human learning and artificial 
intelligence. 
Our faculty is remarkable at generating bold and inspi-
rational ideas; the challenge will be to choose those that hold the greatest promise of accomplishment and im-pact and to secure the necessary investments to make them a reality. 
We must leverage the effort of our faculty by providing 
the very best in support staff, infrastructure, facilities, equipment and seed grants. We must continue to increase support in all disciplines for faculty seeking, applying for and managing grants, as well as for faculty who are man-aging their research infrastructure. Pre-award support is key to increasing applications, and should come from both more specialized grant staff, who are well-trained, and from senior faculty who can mentor junior faculty about specific opportunities in their field. This is often an overlooked and underserved area of  research success, but this support is critical to pre-award identification and post-award management. High-quality facilities and equipment are also essential to research success. Where this entails large-scale invest -
ment, we must make strategic choices that work in con-junction with research and faculty strengths and prior -
ities. Two recent examples of such investment include 
the scanning electron transmission microscope and the new clean room under construction. Such equipment not only enables our faculty to do their best work, but also helps attract new faculty and distinguished research visitors. We must assure that our facilities are competitive and fully support the research needs of  our faculty and research staff. In particular, we must address the inade-quate current state of  some of  our research laboratories, including the Abercrombie Engineering Laboratory. At the same time, we must adopt and implement policies that most effectively use our space, facilities and equip -
ment. In addition, research faculty and research staff play a critical role in leveraging facilities and equipment and in research achievement. 
Often faculty need early seed funding to support the de -
velopment of new proposals and research ideas. Thus, 
having a robust source of  such internal funding is critical to research success across the disciplines. Rice has gath-ered all such funds under the umbrella of  the Creative Ventures website and now provides over $1 million a year in funding through a transparent and easy-to-access platform. This amount should be increased as the num-ber of  promising projects grows. 
We must significantly augment our postdoctoral program. 
Postdoctoral fellows leverage research and often serve as mentors to graduate and undergraduate students. Invest -
ment in postdocs and their career advancement is an in-vestment in research productivity. A successful example includes the Rice University Academy of  Fellows. Post -
docs also spread Rice’s reputation as these researchers leave to join other institutions’ faculties. Postdocs collab-orate with Rice faculty and partner with other faculties on research projects, as well as explore the most dynamic areas of  emerging scholarship. 
We should expand the participation and scope of the 
Rice University Academy of  Fellows program. Several 
departments and centers across the campus also have high-impact postdoctoral programs, such as the Hu-manities Research Center (HRC) and the Center for the Study of Women, Gender and Sexuality (CSWGS). By 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 deepening the postdoctoral research experience, we fos-
ter growth in new areas of  research, as well as continue building on our current strengths. We should seek to sig -
nificantly expand the number of postdocs over the next 
decade. 
We should aim to double our research funding over the 
next 10 years. This is a very ambitious goal that will re-quire us to increase funding from existing sources and seek out new sources as well. Doubling should apply to dollars secured and measured at the stage of  applica-tion as well as actual awards made. Research and creative works take many forms, and we must strive to secure the amounts and kinds of external funding that are ap-
propriate to outstanding accomplishment in each field. Expanding our research-active faculty is an essential step toward this goal. All faculty are expected to conduct re-
search and scholarship at the highest levels and to regu -
larly seek out external funding and prizes. In addition, we should seek growth in license revenues and successfully licensed Rice IP . 
We should continue to build deep and productive exter -
nal collaborations with industry, government and non -
governmental entities, and in particular create deep in-
stitutional collaborations in focused areas with the Texas Medical Center. Our location in the city of Houston provides critical opportunities to collaborate with others in our research endeavors. Most impactful is the Texas Medical Center, which sits just across Main Street from our campus. Its world-class medical institutions are al-ready vitally important partners for our faculty. Almost every school at Rice has ongoing collaborations there, from biosciences to the Health, Humanism and Society Scholars program. We should seek to develop deeply fo-cused collaborations with one or more institutions of  the medical center, which will position Rice as a leader in a limited number of key medically related fields, such as 
neuroengineering. Deeper collaborations may require the creation of new structures, such as joint institutes, and 
we should be open and adaptable to these ideas. 
Our nearby museums, especially the Museum of  Fine 
Arts, Houston and the Menil Collection, are similarly critical collaborators in both teaching and research. In particular, Rice can continue to develop strength in the arts as we build mutually beneficial collaborations. Both governmental and nongovernmental entities of  the city of  Houston have already become crucial collabo-rators. A good example is the Houston Education Re -
search Consortium (HERC), which brings together the Houston Independent School District, the Kinder Insti -
tute for Urban Research and the School of  Social Scienc -
es to pursue research designed to improve outcomes for the children of  our home city. Especially in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, we have an obligation and an oppor -
tunity to contribute to the city through research across a range of  disciplines. 
Industry in Houston has long been a strategic partner for 
Rice, supporting a wide range of  endeavors. We should seek to build these partnerships wherever possible and make sure that pathways for enabling such collabora -
tions are easily identifiable and usable. New opportuni -
ties will emerge with the investments we are making in data science. As companies become increasingly reliant on data analytics, Rice should be a critical partner and use its resources to help industry determine answers to their most pressing questions. We should establish cen -
ters of  operations where industry partners can present proposals to be worked on by teams of  Rice students, staff  and faculty. Faculty members may have access to professional research scientists or postdoctoral fellows who could help with such projects, allowing faculty to work on more high-level projects. For example, a Rice LIFT Data Science Initiative (D2K@rice) proposal of-fers a model that seeks to connect Houston industry with teams of  student-led and faculty-supervised teams to tackle research projects. 
We should identify critical global challenges where Rice 
can make a distinctive contribution, and we should work with the partners globally to broadly and meaningfully improve the human condition. Our world faces a num-ber of difficult and threatening challenges that must be 
addressed in the coming years. Universities provide the independence and research strength that can lead to in-novative solutions. Rice must contribute to these efforts. As in other areas, we must make such choices strategi -
cally, and develop the partnerships to most effectively pursue them. Likely areas for consideration include glob-al health, education, energy, the environment, climate change, urban challenges and disparities. In several of these areas, we should identify aspects where Rice is po-sitioned to contribute in important ways to identifying 
15 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 solutions. Departments in nearly every school, as well as 
institutes, including the Baker Institute for Public Policy 
and the Kinder Institute for Urban Research, are well po-
sitioned to play a major role in these endeavors. Rice fac -
ulty, with their expertise across all disciplines and areas 
of the globe offer knowledge of the historical context, 
scientific understanding, technological possibilities and 
cultural responses needed to address these issues. Extend Rice’s Reach and Impact. 
We will increase our impact and visibility nationally and globally through digital education, global presence and alumni engage-ment. 
Rice faces an increasingly competitive environment for 
students and faculty, and greater opportunities than ever for extending its reach. A number of our peer universi-
ties have expanded their traditional on-campus student bodies or are considering doing so. Many, however, are looking to two overlapping opportunities, namely digital online education and overseas opportunities. The chal-lenge for Rice is to maintain and even improve its com-petitive position by increasing its global footprint while maintaining its reputation for excellence and its distinc -
tive campus community. 
As part of the Vision for the Second Century, Rice ex-
panded its undergraduate student population by approx-
imately 30 percent and greatly increased applicants and matriculants from outside Texas, both nationally and internationally. International student enrollment grew from about 3 percent to 11 percent of  the undergrad-uate student body. At the same time, the enrollment of graduate students increased by an even greater percent -
age, through significant growth of our doctoral pro -
grams and the addition of  new programs, especially pro-fessional master’s degrees. Graduate students also came increasingly from abroad. Overall, Rice’s student body is today nearly 25 percent international. The result has been a significant increase in Rice’s national and glob-al recognition as our applicant pool, student body and alumni base have grown more national and international. All preeminent research universities compete in a global environment for faculty, for students and for research opportunities and resources.  It is essential that we con-tinue to enhance our visibility and reputation — locally, nationally and globally. 
We face particular challenges in attaining this goal as a 
comparatively small university. When Rice faced the question of  increasing our impact 12 years ago, growing enrollment on the physical campus was the only practi-cal option available. Since then, new digital technologies allow Rice to grow in new ways — through online offer -
ings that entail lower fixed costs and less impact to the on-campus experience and resources. These methods are 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 being increasingly used by our peers and other universi-
ties, including ambitious schools that are not now among the world’s top universities, for growth and reputational positioning. 
Our impact is also increased by our global engagement 
with other universities and our expanding alumni net -
work. Our relationships with other universities create opportunities for our faculty and students, and extend our impact to students and researchers around the globe. Our alumni, together with other Rice advocates such as parents and donors, constitute a network of  ambassa-dors which, if we engage effectively, can also help us in-crease national and international visibility. 
We must use digital education technologies to enhance 
Rice’s global presence and build new partnerships that al-low Rice to take advantage of  increased student mobility. Digital education is the most effective way to extend our reach to new student populations without overburden-ing our financial or campus resources. This strategy must be undertaken in ways consistent with what we already consider key ingredients of  our success: selective admis-sions, programs that successfully compete with those of  the best universities, meeting target enrollments on quantity and quality measures, financial contributions to support our core endeavors, successful learning out -
comes, innovation and excellence. Our success in build-ing a global presence can be significantly enhanced by the engagement of  our increasingly global community of students and alumni, who can in turn benefit from 
online educational resources. 
This digital pathway is not meant to replace or diminish 
the role of  on-campus classroom education, but rather to enhance the already strong education experience of past, present and future Rice students. Digital education resources and technology are increasingly an essential component of  both the on campus and online curric-ular experience of 21st-century students. To fulfill our 
distinctive commitment to provide the best educational experience, we must integrate these new tools into our learning environment and promote a culture of  active experimentation and innovation in the online delivery of programs. 
Rice has established a substantial presence in digital edu -
cation. This has taken the form of  free online MOOCs, digital innovation in traditional campus-based classes, 
for-credit summer session courses and low-cost online courses directed toward particular competencies. In ad-dition, we recently announced a partnership with 2U to deliver our first online degree program, MBA@Rice. This represents a hybrid model of  mostly online deliv-ery, including synchronous and asynchronous methods, with more limited on-campus presence for students. The market has evolved rapidly, and today there is increasing competition in revenue-generating online degrees, certif -
icates and sequences. New online programs and degrees are being considered at the school and departmental lev -
els. Many faculty have responded to the challenges and opportunities of  digital education with energy and en-thusiasm and expressed interest in driving the evolution of  digital and online higher education. 
The past five years have largely been years of experi-
mentation, innovation and business model evolution. 
We have developed significant successful offerings and, more importantly, relevant knowledge and capacity. If we are to be successful in the long term and substantially enhance our rapidly evolving capabilities, we need to de -
velop mid- and long-range strategic priorities, and make investments to achieve those priorities. 
Our global future will be deeply entwined with our digital 
reach. Rice has long-standing and effective international partnerships in a number of  countries. Digital learning can be used to amplify Rice’s presence and assure that Rice research and content continue to improve educa -
tion worldwide. Digital education allows Rice to engage learners across the globe with the unsurpassed teaching for which we are known and to extend opportunities to talented students and mid-career learners everywhere. 
Our students on the Rice campus are also increasing-
ly mobile and eager to seize international opportunities that range from a few weeks to several semesters. We should consider what international opportunities should be available to students during their summer, winter and spring breaks. Digital technologies can offer our own stu -
dents the opportunity to continue coursework while en-gaged abroad, especially valuable since important cours-es are not necessarily offered every semester on campus. Faculty also can take advantage of  increased mobility to explore international opportunities and be able to offer instruction in different locations.  
17 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 At the same time, online programs can be just as im-
portant to those living in the Houston region who do not have the time to travel back and forth to the cam-pus from communities such as The Woodlands, Katy or Friendswood. Such potential learners may, however, be able to visit the campus for elements of  their education -
al program on some regular basis even if  not for every class. Such blended courses represent a significant op-
portunity for the Glasscock School of  Continuing Stud -
ies, which is already offering some online programs, to build on our extraordinarily strong regional reputation. While Glasscock to date has been focused more locally, moving forward it can take some programs to a national and international audience as well through digital tech-nologies. 
We must establish Rice’s leading role in online education 
by developing five strategic online professional master’s programs of exceptional quality to expand the reach and 
impact of  Rice University nationally and globally. Rice’s reputation for educational excellence and rigorous re-search creates the opportunity to occupy a premier po-sition in online programming, both locally and globally. Professional master’s degrees are the area of  greatest opportunity to grow high quality programs via digital means. Recent figures from the U.S. Department of Ed-
ucation project that enrollment in online postsecondary degree programs will increase 13 percent to 23.8 million by 2021. Rice needs to position itself  to take advantage of  the high end of  this market in terms of  the students and learners we can attract. If  we fail to do so, our com-petitors will. The potential result could be the erosion of our traditional educational market and reputation, espe -
cially in the professional and graduate education space. 
Successful programs should introduce new revenue 
streams that fully support their cost and can be used to support other strategic investments that enhance our re-search and teaching missions. These programs should aim to return resources to sponsoring departments and schools and the general funds of  the university. 
We must build on Rice’s strength in computer science, 
machine learning and digital educational resources to be recognized as an authority on the design and effective-ness of  new learning technologies and materials. Giv-en the highly competitive environment in all forms of digital education, we cannot succeed unless we are seen as leaders and innovators. To do that, we must engage in research that distinguishes our faculty as important thought leaders in digital education. Research in machine learning and artificial intelligence are areas of strength 
for Rice faculty, and these technologies will continue to shape learning both online and on campus. Rice can leverage its established research strength to produce en-hanced online courses as part of  the curriculum for on-line or low residency degrees. 
Rice is already seen as a leader in innovative publishing 
models and personalized learning. OpenStax is a major force in the production of digital textbooks with wrap-
around personalized learning support systems. These efforts can be leveraged to amplify the effect Rice edu -
cation has in certain market segments, such as AP pro -
grams, and give us an advantage in recruiting the most talented students to our undergraduate programs. 
We must deepen engagement with alumni by more ef -
fectively enabling them as ambassadors of  the universi-
ty and providing them digital education and networking opportunities. Because of  our historically small size, it is even more important for us to effectively engage our alumni. Our alumni presence outside Texas is growing as our student body has become significantly more national and international, and we have seen significant growth and engagement of alumni groups in major cities across 
the U.S. It is important to maintain our connection to our alumni, and that is best done by continuing to connect alumni to the life of  the university including through learning opportunities and volunteer service. Our alumni are generally eager to help in multiple ways, including re-cruiting faculty and students, providing internships and mentoring, and connecting Rice faculty and students to their firms and professions. Rice also has the opportu -
nity to remain a trusted institution for all of  its alumni, regardless of  location, to advance their careers through additional certifications or degrees. Rice should signifi -
cantly increase the number of  alumni who receive ad-ditional degrees or certifications from Rice midcareer, and thus see Rice as a source for lifelong learning. If Rice is an available choice for such education, we greatly increase the strong sense of Rice affiliation and bene -
fit among our graduates. We must also assure that Rice provides the most effective means for networking and 
18 
 
  
 
 
 
 mentoring among our alumni and between our alumni 
and students, as we have done with the creation of  Sal-lyportal. 
We must develop more global partnerships for both edu -
cation and research, and determine whether establishing 
a small number of international centers or key relation-ships would significantly enhance our ability to deliver education and support the engagement of  our students and faculty abroad. As we look at our peers, we see an increasing number and variety of  international centers and experimental collaborations, which range from more significant and visible international partnerships to for -
eign campuses. A number of  universities, including some of  our most highly ranked peers, are establishing foreign centers or offices. Given our small size, we may have lim-ited capacity for such investments, but we should deter -
mine whether the benefits we might receive warrant the costs. Particularly as our global online reach expands, it may be advantageous to supplement our digital presence with local opportunities for in-person engagement. 
We must, in any event, continue to identify research and 
education relationships with outstanding universities around the world that will enhance the learning oppor -
tunities of  our students and the research collaborations of  our faculty. Identifying such relationships should fall primarily on our schools, departments and faculty, who are best positioned to determine the institutions that will be optimal partners for their research and education goals. Central administration and leadership, however, can provide needed support, strategy and high-level en-gagements. Where possible and productive, we ought to seek relationships that are broad and deep, encompass-ing both education and research. Engage Houston and Empower Its Success. 
We will engage Houston as a focus and partner for research and education, leveraging our broad expertise on critical urban is-sues to be a driving force in enabling Houston’s success as a 21st-century metropolis. 
From its beginnings, Rice’s destiny as a great American 
university has been intertwined with Houston’s destiny as a great American city. As Rice grew in its first century from fewer than 70 students to now nearly 7,000, Hous-ton grew from a town of  about 80,000 to a metropolis of over 6 million. Houston’s success has provided Rice with a firm foundation of support. In turn, Rice’s world-class 
reputation for scholarship and education have enhanced Houston’s reputation and provided it with invaluable re-sources and opportunities for achieving further success. Because Houston’s demographics today likely resemble those of  the rest of  the country three decades from now, knowledge gained in our home city has the potential to help pave the way nationally and internationally. 
Rice’s Vision for the Second Century called on the uni-
versity to engage with the Houston community in a broader and more meaningful way — by engaging our students and faculty in the city, by making tangible con-tributions to improve our city, and by continuing to pro -
vide innovative educational and cultural resources to the broader Houston population. Great progress has been made toward this goal and across Houston. Rice is no longer viewed as staying “behind the hedges.” In fact, it plays a role in the city well beyond its size. In a recent study by Brookings, Rice was ranked ninth in the country in impact of  downtown universities. 
The Center for Civic Leadership provides a wide variety 
of experiential learning opportunities for students across 
the city. The Passport to Houston provides cultural op-portunities at many of  the city’s premier institutions. The Baker Institute, Kinder Institute, Houston Education Research Consortium, Severe Storm Prediction Educa-tion and Evacuation from Disaster (SSPEED) Center and other centers and faculty on campus have engaged Houston’s political and civic leadership and provided in-valuable research and policy recommendations. Human-ities faculty and students engage currently with Houston social service organizations, educators, and arts organi-zations, and the Department of  Visual and Dramatic 
19 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Arts offers important art programming for the city. The 
Moody Center provides a rich, new context for engage -
ment with the city on arts and culture. The Shepherd School of  Music and the new music and performing arts center, construction of  which will begin soon, will make the school an even greater destination for musical per -
formances and other events. The Glasscock School for Continuing Studies supports excellence in K–12 educa -
tion and a wide range of  educational opportunities for Houston’s residents. 
The V2C2 provides the opportunity to significantly 
broaden, enrich and solidify this partnership in ways that are mutually beneficial to Rice and to Houston. We want, in fact, to be one of  the driving forces that help advance the city as it faces 21st-century challenges. The recent damage inflicted by Hurricane Harvey creates an obli-gation and provides an opportunity to contribute to and learn from the city’s recovery and evolution. Rice also can and should play a crucial role in enabling Houston to realize its goal of becoming a city known for innovation and technology-driven startups. 
The transformational aspect of this partnership lies not 
necessarily in the creation of  completely new initiatives, although there may be some we should undertake, but in the purposeful coordination, growth and leveraging of existing efforts. Such efforts have extended across the university. For example, the Program in Jewish Studies 
is currently rescuing Jewish community documents in the aftermath of  Harvey; the Center for the Study of Women, Gender and Sexuality is a founding member of Houston Area Rainbow Collective History; and the sta -
tistics department has worked with the Houston Health Department to identify high pollution/asthma action days. By providing the expertise, data resources and in-novative ideas, we can help advance Houston’s rise as a model city where data-driven solutions drive policy im-provements. 
Rice should coordinate education programs around ur -
ban issues and engage with Houston, learning from and 
contributing to it. In contrast to past decades when stu -
dents preferred to study outside large cities, a truly urban university has a competitive advantage in today’s world. Urban universities offer a rich environment for learning outside the classroom through research and policy prob -
lems identified through partnerships with business, non-profits and governmental agencies. The most complex and pressing societal issues are now largely urban as the majority of people in the world live in urban settings, as 
does over 80 percent of  the U.S. population. As a result, many of  the best students, motivated by a desire to bet -
ter society and engage directly with current issues, want a university experience that engages them in the challenges and resources of  world-class cities. As a result of  early visionary thinking and subsequent stewardship, Rice has perhaps the best and best-located urban campus near the center of  any major American city.  
In order to maximize this advantage, Rice should focus 
on integrating the university’s extraordinary urban cur -
riculum and experiential learning opportunities. Rice’s Houston Area Survey has a 36 year history of  tracking trends and attitudes in Houston and has been used to shape policies and programs and to document the unique optimism of  our home city. The School of  Architecture engages its students in a host of important projects deal-
ing with the city’s built environment. The Center for En-gaged Research and Collaborative Learning (CERCL), now housed in the Kinder Institute, offers longstand-ing models of  engaged research, especially concerning health and racial issues. 
The Center for Civic Leadership provides students with 
urban research opportunities through the Houston Area Research Teams and other programs. The School of So-cial Sciences’ new social policy analysis curriculum cre -
ates an innovative and intellectually rigorous opportunity for important student learning. The sociology depart -
ment offers a host of  courses that speak directly to ur -
ban issues. The School of  Engineering is home to faculty and programs that engage Houston in a wide-range of infrastructure issues, as well as innovative work on smart cities. The Jones School of  Business is ranked second in the country for its entrepreneurship program, and the Rice Alliance and Liu Idea Lab for Innovation and En-trepreneurship are helping foster Houston’s innovation culture and human resources. These are just a few ex-amples of  research and engagement with the city that occurs in every school of  the university. We must present these rich educational resources and expertise in a more coordinated way. 
Our engagement should involve all aspects of  our educa -
tional mission, including the Glasscock School for Con -
20 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 tinuing Studies, which has long been an important way 
in which Rice has contributed to the city. Among other things, the coordination of  these programs will enhance Rice’s competitiveness in recruiting the best students, es -
pecially those interested in solving the challenges facing top global cities. In considering our educational role more broadly in the city, we ought also to evaluate how best to use our resources during the summer months. Better use of  our campus facilities might allow an increased role in providing opportunities to K–12 students, as well as focused programs for adult learners. 
Rice will participate with the city and key organizations 
and institutions as a strategic academic partner. Build -
ing a robust translational effort requires a wide-ranging and coordinated effort by the schools and the Baker and Kinder Institutes. This effort requires Rice to create a “policy pipeline” — a constant and coordinated iden-tification of important challenges and an outflow of 
research, policy and action recommendations designed to inform the work of  governmental, private sector and community-based entities. In addition, we must create a “smart cities” pipeline that uses Houston as a test bed for how to leverage technology to improve services. Suc -
cess for these efforts requires three crucial elements. 
First, the flow of policy recommendations must include 
and be shared with local philanthropies, industry, non -
profit organizations and governmental entities. Within 
Houston’s civic and political culture these entities play an especially important role in shaping and implement -
ing policy. Making these entities part of  the Rice policy pipeline will promote maximum impact in the commu-nity and also highlight the value that Rice brings to the city through these efforts, which are largely funded by philanthropy. The newly established Texas Rice Innova-tive Policy Lab is positioned to be an important resource in this respect. 
Second, Rice must draw on the full range of relevant 
expertise across the university. An extraordinary range of urban research already takes place on campus, includ -
ing methods for improved learning outcomes for K–16 education; the abatement of  environmental issues such as flooding and reduced air quality; and social and infra -
structure issues related to social and economic disparities in transportation, housing, health care and even access to wireless internet resources in underserved neighbor -hoods. Rice has enormous research capability in engi -
neering that can help contribute to improvements in city operations, infrastructure and technology to improve urban life. Rice social science and humanities scholars provide knowledge about Houston’s past and present re-alities for all inhabitants. Collaboration can be fostered to greater effect. As the Kinder Institute strategically ex-pands and broadens its base of  research and data analyt-ics, it could serve a coordination role in these cross-cam -
pus endeavors, and in particular, relationship building with the city of  Houston and Harris County. 
Third, using programs and platforms at the Jones School, 
the Glasscock School and Rice Online, Rice should cre -
ate new and enhance existing programs in a wide range 
of  areas that deliver workforce development options to Houston-based firms, local governments and not-for -
profit organizations. Through degrees, certificate pro-grams and short courses, Rice should provide targeted best-in-class educational programs that are widely acces -
sible and which serve the needs of  a city committed to job creation and a workforce ready to support techno-logically advanced industries. 
Rice should design a method by which different actors in 
Houston, whether they be large, multibillion dollar cor -
porations, or small nonprofits, can engage with us when they have a specific research question or challenge. We should create a structure that makes Rice’s capabilities more inviting and more accessible to other organizations. It is important that our faculty and staff  engage with other stakeholders in the city and that Rice as a whole develop strong inter-institutional relationships. 
Moreover, such broad and deep engagements with Hous-
ton will enable Rice to engage more effectively with insti -
tutions addressing similar issues across the globe. Thus, these efforts should be complemented by a sustained ef -
fort to establish Rice as a global convener on a range of urban issues faced by cities around the world. 
Rice should seek to use its off-campus properties stra-
tegically to benefit both the university and the city, and 
in particular foster Houston’s emergence as a center of innovation.  Rice’s off-campus Houston property hold-ings offer an opportunity to pursue goals that help sup-port the development of  Houston and the engagement of  Rice. We should carefully consider how these prop-
21 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  erties can be used to serve Rice’s goals and Houston’s 
ambitions while providing the necessary financial return to the university. Just as Rice has undertaken efforts to make Rice Village a more attractive and vibrant retail center, so too can Rice use our other properties to en-hance our position as an urban university while fueling the development of  our home city. 
One particular area where we should focus is the devel -
opment of  Houston as a center for innovation, technol -
ogy transfer and technology-driven startup companies. 
Rice faculty have produced important intellectual prop -
erty that has led to numerous startup firms. We are en-gaged in a range of efforts with researchers in the Texas 
Medical Center to develop new medical technologies. The Jones School has developed a strong presence in entrepreneurship, the McNair Center focuses on related policy and the LILIE (Liu Idea Lab for Innovation and Entrepreneurship) brings this focus to students across the university. Thus, we are well-positioned to play an important role in the further development of  Houston as a center of  entrepreneurship and innovation. 
If  we successfully undertake all of  these efforts, we will 
be able to make a leap in our engagement with the city, and the degree to which our university benefits from our urban environment and our city benefits from the pres-ence of  a great university. What will it require to succeed, and what will our 
success accomplish? 
Taken together, these goals and actions set forth an am-
bitious vision for Rice University. What will it take to succeed? Certainly, an ambitious and successful fundrais-ing effort, but that will not be enough. We will need to find ways to increase other revenues. We will need re-allocation of  effort and resources. We will need to im-plement strategic organizational changes that better align with some of  our goals and priorities. We will need to embark on new collaborations and partnerships, within Rice and with partners in our city and around the world. And we will need determination, optimism and creativity. 
If  we are successful, what impact will the achievement 
of  these goals have on Rice? 
• We will provide the best undergraduate education, one that 
is transformative for our students and fueled by the engage-
ment of our faculty. 
• We will be a premier choice for graduate students who have 
sought out the excellence of our faculty, the quality of the grad-
uate education and the vibrant graduate community we support. 
• We will have earned the admiration of our peers for the fac -
ulty we have recruited and retained and the pinnacles of excel-
lence we have built. 
• We will be one of the most diverse and inclusive educational 
environments among the nation’s top universities and provide 
the resources for the success of all students. 
• We will achieve research excellence, recognition and impact 
far beyond our scale, and contribute in important ways to ad-
dressing some of the world’s most pressing problems. 
• Our educational impact and overall stature will be greatly 
expanded by new digital education programs, international en-
gagements and the active support and success of our alumni. 
• We will be recognized as a major force in increasing oppor-
tunity and improving the quality of life in Houston, and provid-
ing it with the data and policy tools of a 21st-century city. 
22 
