1 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018shaping 
 UBC’s next century
 Strategic Plan 2018 –2028
2 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018vision
Inspiring people, ideas and actions for a better world
1 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018purpose
Pursuing excellence in research, learning and engagement                                                             
to foster global citizenship and advance a sustainable and just society across British Columbia, Canada and the world
1 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
2 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018values
Excellence
A profound and aspirational value: the quality of striving to be,  
and being, outstanding  
Integrity
A moral value: the quality of being honest, ethical and truthful
Respect
An essential and learned value: regard felt or shown towards different people, ideas and actions
2 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Academic freedom
A unique value of the academy: a scholar’s freedom to  
express ideas through respectful discourse and the pursuit  
of open discussion, without risk of censure
Accountability
A personal and public value: being responsible for our  
conduct and actions and delivering upon our respective  
and reciprocal commitments
3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
4 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Welcome to Shaping UBC’s Next Century —the strategic 
plan of the University of British Columbia (UBC), launched 
at a time of renewal as we embark on our next century  
as a leading public university.
The planning process over the last year has given UBC 
community members the opportunity to share perspectives on what defines UBC and to exchange ideas 
about our role in the world. Shaping UBC’s Next Century  
builds on the university’s previous strategic plan, Place and 
Promise, and focuses on three themes that we believe  
are critical to society today: Inclusion, Collaboration and Innovation. 
This plan describes the strong connections between these 
themes and the core areas that continue to define what we do as a public university: People and Places, Research Excellence, Transformative Learning and Local and Global 
Engagement. It also emphasizes our enduring focus  
on academic excellence and on Indigenous engagement, sustainability and wellbeing. Our relationship with 
Indigenous people and communities is central to the university; we hold profound commitments to  
reciprocity, knowledge curation and development.
Shaping UBC’s Next Century sets out our collective  
vision and purpose, as well as our goals and strategies for 
the years ahead. It will guide our decisions, actions and 
interactions into the future, and will create a framework  
for resource allocation across the university. As always, 
people remain the cornerstone of UBC. The plan reflects our commitment to their health, learning and success, without which we will not fulfil our collective potential.  
We want to inspire the very best in our students, faculty, staff, alumni and partners, and we recognize the degree  
to which we continue to be inspired by the individuals and the communities with whom we work.A NOTE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-CHANCELLOR
4 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
5 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018In reading the plan, you will see that it outlines our 
ambitions through a series of 20 strategies. Recognizing the scale of the task at hand, we have identified five areas 
that we feel have significant transformational potential:
•  Collaborative clusters —interdisciplinary research 
clusters focusing on problems of societal importance.
•  Great people —nurturing our global community of  
faculty, staff and students. Enhancing inclusion within the 
UBC community and deepening our engagement with Indigenous partners.
•  Indigenous engagement —supporting the objectives and 
actions of the renewed 2018 Indigenous Strategic Plan . 
This area also represents our shared commitment as a university community, articulating the commitments  
 that form UBC’s response to the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission of Canada. You can learn more here .•  Innovative pedagogy —enriching experiential learning 
and research opportunities as ways to master valuable competencies.
•  Thriving campus communities —focusing on the 
wellbeing of our UBC community, including sustainability and connectivity to our campuses.
5 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
This is our moment to harness the energies and strengths 
of an extraordinary institution to affect sustainable  
and positive change, both locally and globally. Our vision  
of Inspiring people, ideas and actions for a better world reflects our strongly held belief that, personally and collectively, we have the desire, capacity and responsibility to make this happen. This is our moment to inspire.
I am proud of the way our community has come together  
to create the direction and spirit so evident in this plan.  
To the many thousands of individuals—students, faculty, 
staff, alumni and university partners—who contributed their perspectives and passion to this effort, I offer my 
deepest thanks.
Professor Santa J. Ono  
President and Vice-Chancellor
6 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
7 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
8 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018The process of developing UBC’s new strategic plan has helped  
to forge a consensus about the directions we will take as a public 
institution. Throughout 2017, thousands of members of the  
UBC community came together through group discussions, open houses and online to provide input that helped inform the plan. That input was further shaped by a representative Steering Committee, multiple working groups, alumni UBC , the Deans,  
the Executive and diverse university committees. We have also engaged extensively with external partners along the way.  
UBC has benefited greatly from the contributions and commitment of these individuals and groups and will further benefit from our continued work together as we move into implementation.INTRODUCTION
9 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018We begin by acknowledging that UBC’s two main 
campuses are located on the traditional, ancestral and unceded territories of the x
wmə0–kwəy ˇəm (Musqueam) and 
Syilx (Okanagan) peoples, and that UBC’s activities take place on Indigenous lands throughout British Columbia and 
beyond. In recent years, the work of the Truth and 
Reconciliation Commission of Canada and the publication of its Final Report and Calls to Action , and the development 
of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples , have brought attention to the ways in which 
Canadian educational and other institutions have failed and oppressed Indigenous people. At this historic juncture, UBC renews its commitments, articulated in the 2009 Aboriginal Strategic Plan , to addressing this history and 
charting a way forward that provides a basis for productive co-existence and a more equitable future. Specific measures are identified throughout this plan, and these  
are being reviewed and revised in the context of the  
2018 Indigenous Strategic Plan . Shaping UBC’s Next Century builds on the successes of the past. The university recently celebrated its centennial, marking 100 years of excellence in research, education and service in British Columbia and beyond. UBC’s previous strategic plan sparked significant academic achievements, 
with deepening commitments to Indigenous people and 
communities, sustainability and alumni engagement. It channelled institutional attention and activity toward international collaboration, intercultural understanding and outstanding work environments. Collectively, these 
accomplishments position us well to embrace the 
opportunities and navigate the challenges that lie ahead. The locations of our campuses and multiple learning and research sites at the western edge of Canada enable fresh 
perspectives in a fast-changing global landscape. These 
are reinforced by the relative youth of UBC in the world of higher education. 
As a public institution, we are proud to play a pivotal role 
in British Columbia, shaping and participating in the 
development of its people, society and economic growth. 
At the same time, UBC is a globally renowned university, contributing world-leading research, providing distinctive excellence in education, attracting outstanding people 
10 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018domestically and internationally, and collaborating with 
pre-eminent universities and organizations around the world. The founders of UBC understood the university’s 
potential as a place of engagement; a place where relevant, 
innovative and impactful research would be conducted; a place where pressing societal issues would be examined, deliberated and resolved; and a place where critical thinking would always be welcomed and informed citizens 
shaped. We strive to fulfil this potential in all that we do, 
locally, regionally, nationally and across the world. 
This plan identifies key areas in which to focus our efforts, 
and provides support for decision-making and resource 
allocation across the university. It allows us to see more 
clearly our roles in context and creates a basis for external dialogue and engagement. Importantly, it helps us define the outcomes against which we can be held accountable and the metrics by which to assess our progress. 
Shaping UBC’s Next Century also offers connections 
across—and reinforcement for—the many strategic plans  
that articulate ambitions and guide activity in constituent  
parts of UBC, including faculties and university-wide 
initiatives. In 2014, UBC Okanagan articulated its goals  and actions in a visioning exercise entitled Aspire ,  
a foundational document for both the campus and our 
institutional planning.
We recognize that successful implementation will require 
sustained leadership, activity and resources. This plan is built upon the strengths of all members of the UBC community—students, faculty, staff, alumni and partners 
—and it is dependent on their continued engagement and 
contributions. UBC is intent on ensuring that the necessary supports are in place to help us fulfil the goals and priorities outlined in Shaping UBC’s Next Century .
In developing this plan, we have renewed our vision  and 
purpose  as a university. These reflect an ongoing 
commitment to excellence in the academic mission, to citizenship and to positive change. We emphasize  
the people, ideas and actions that enable us, personally 
and collectively, to achieve these aims and achieve 
inspirational impact. We also highlight the interconnected-ness of UBC’s activities, internally and externally with  
our local and global partners. Our efforts in the past decade to improve Indigenous relationships, sustainability 
and alumni engagement, framed through Place and 
11 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Promise, have enabled considerable progress, and these 
are now widely regarded as fundamental to the UBC community and to our partners. Continued focus in these 
areas is an essential aspect of our work in research and 
education. We seek to inspire  people, ideas and actions, 
and to build together a creative and dynamic institution comprised of—and connected with— inspiring  people, 
ideas and actions. The word inspire  has another meaning 
for us, related to its original meaning of “to breathe in”:  
to do so through deep engagement with societal partners, new forms of academic inspiration and the pursuit of opportunities to serve society better. 
Vision
Inspiring people, ideas and actions for a better world
Purpose
Pursuing excellence in research, learning and  
engagement to foster global citizenship and advance a sustainable and just society across British Columbia, 
Canada and the worldFive enduring values
1 underpin all our activities, 
interactions and decisions—from classrooms and 
laboratories, to committees and leadership, to  
our interactions with the world. These values act as a compass and a lens through which to view our work.
Values
Excellence. A profound and aspirational value: the quality 
of striving to be, and being, outstanding 
Integrity.  A moral value: the quality of being honest, 
ethical and truthful
Respect.  An essential and learned value: regard felt or 
shown towards different people, ideas and actions
Academic freedom.  A unique value of the academy:  
a scholar’s freedom to express ideas through respectful 
discourse and the pursuit of open discussion, without  
risk of censure
Accountability.  A personal and public value: being 
responsible for our conduct and actions and delivering 
upon our respective and reciprocal commitments
1  Definitions adapted from: The Canadian Oxford Dictionary  (2 ed.),  
Ed. by Katherine Barber, OUP 2004
12 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018This plan provides a road map to help UBC reach its 
potential and a mechanism through which we can be held accountable. Our vision is further articulated through  
ten goals —the UBC Promise. 
UBC will continue to track metrics at the institutional level, many of which are highlighted in the UBC Annual Report . 
We have defined a subset of these that constitute a 
‘dashboard’ for Shaping UBC’s Next Century . The metrics 
will evolve as we identify better methods of evaluation. 
They will be reviewed regularly with both Senates and with the Board of Governors. Our performance against these measures will provide a barometer of our progress. 
13 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018UBC is an institution where we:
Lead  globally in research excellence, discovery, scholarship 
and creative endeavours 
Inspire and enable  students through excellence in 
transformative teaching, mentoring, advising and the 
student experience
Partner  with Indigenous communities on and off campus  
to address the legacy of colonialism and to co-develop 
knowledge and relationships 
Build  a diverse culture that integrates our themes of 
innovation, collaboration and inclusion, and infuses them 
through all our activities
Lead  globally and locally in sustainability and wellbeing 
across our campuses and communitiesSignificantly expand  student access, alumni networks  
and institutional partnerships to reinforce global and local 
connections
Lead  as a first-choice place to learn and work
Define and leverage  the distinctive and complementary 
strengths of our campuses and learning sitesAchieve  agility in academic support and administration 
through thoughtful systemic change and simplification
Lead  as a model public institution, fostering discourse, 
knowledge exchange and engagementgoals
14 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
Snapshot: UBC by the numbers  
(all data 2016/17)
14 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018With over 65,000 students, and 13,300 degrees granted, 
UBC is the largest university in British Columbia and the second largest in Canada. It accounts for about a quarter 
of funded domestic enrolments in the province, and  
over 70 per cent of new-to-UBC students are from British 
Columbia. 6.9 per cent of domestic students enrolled  
at UBC Okanagan identify as Aboriginal, as do 2.9 per cent  
of domestic students at UBC Vancouver. UBC has been 
ranked as North America’s most international university by 
Times Higher Education (THE) for the fourth consecutive year. UBC has grown to rank consistently as one of the world’s top research universities (ranked 31 by the 2017  
Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities ( ARWU ); 
36 by THE in 2016; 27 by US News Best Global Universities). Close to 3,000 faculty members attract approximately $600 million in research funding from government, industry and not-for-profit partners.  
UBC conducts 93 per cent of all university industry-sponsored research in British Columbia. 
ubc.ca/about/facts.html  
15 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 15 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ We need to inspire people  
to choose UBC. ”
 ubc staff member 
16 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018The thousands of thoughtful comments we received from  
our students, faculty, staff, alumni and external partners have 
informed our strategic focus, articulated within the plan as  
themes and core areas.Themes and core areas
17 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018 Themes  represent key opportunities for transformational 
change in how we work. These cross-cutting areas will 
enhance our academic impact in an increasingly  
complex and interconnected world. They are imperative  
to achieving the vision and objectives of the plan. 
Core areas  represent the capacities in which we work  
as a public university. They form the building blocks for 
progress. They are the mechanisms through which we  
seek to inspire.Each of the themes and core areas is described within  
the plan, and together they have shaped our strategies. 
The strategies have been grouped according to core  
area, even while recognizing that they have been closely informed by the themes. We provide examples of our  
work in these themes and core areas throughout the plan,  
but they represent only a tiny fraction of the full span  
of our activities. 
18 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018During the planning process, the UBC community, together with 
our partners, converged on three themes: Inclusion, Collaboration  
and Innovation . By focussing on these themes, we can reinforce 
and improve on our current achievements in research, teaching and learning, and engagement. We can also support the wellbeing and success of people at UBC. Meaningful progress will require clear leadership and firm action to enable the required changes in culture and practice. Three themes
19 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018inclusion
Embedding equity and diversity across university systems  
and structurestheme one
19 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
20 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Sustained excellence in research, education and 
engagement depends on the integration of diverse perspectives and approaches. As a public institution, UBC 
has the responsibility to ensure inclusion across students, 
faculty, staff and alumni, and through all interactions beyond the university. Inclusion is a commitment to access, success and representation of historically underserved, marginalized or excluded populations. Given 
the long-lasting legacy of colonization of Indigenous 
peoples, we will continue to prioritize our partnerships with Indigenous peoples and communities. Education is an enabler of social development and mobility, and UBC is 
intent on advancing the inclusion of all those who have 
been excluded historically based on gender, race, religion, sexuality, age, physical ability or economic circumstance. 
The Equity and Inclusion Office at UBC provides leadership 
and co-ordination to further UBC’s commitment to 
Inclusive Excellence—the embedding of support for equity 
and diversity in the systems and operations of the university. The office offers data collection and analysis,  
as well as case and issues management, working closely 
with students, faculty and staff to ensure they have  
the tools and skills necessary to contribute to socially sustainable communities. Inclusion is also a focus in 
research and teaching. For example, faculty members in the Stigma and Resilience Among Vulnerable Youth Centre 
in the School of Nursing have used mixed-methods 
research for close to 15 years with groups of vulnerable youth—such as those experiencing homelessness and characterized by sexual diversity—to examine stigma, violence and trauma, as well as factors that foster 
resilience. Research conducted in the Department of 
Geography is examining the relationship between Canadian immigration law and the integration of immigrants in our cities, including the gendered and 
generational experiences of belonging for Syrian refugees 
resettling in Canada.
Our investment in student financial assistance has a  
strong focus on needs-based bursary support and funding 
for historically excluded student populations. Late in  
2017, we launched the largest fundraising campaign for students in Canadian history. The Blue & Gold Campaign for Students aims to raise $100 million in student support  
over three years. Resources are also in place to support 
international students and commuter students, both 
integral and vibrant parts of the university community.  Theme one: Inclusion
21 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Led by strong student advocacy efforts, UBC is expanding 
the use of open textbooks to improve affordability. As of 2016, the creation and dissemination of open educational 
resources is recognized as an example of Educational 
Leadership activity in consideration for appointment, promotion and tenure decisions. UBC has also launched a diverse set of high-demand public online offerings (massive open online courses or MOOC s), including 
Reconciliation through Indigenous Education, How to Write a Novel, Climate Change: The Science and Introduction to Marketing. The Library’s Open Collections contains over 200,000 publicly available digital objects. 
UBC is committed to making education more affordable 
and accessible, with expanded creation and dissemination of open educational resources. 
Our intentions are bold and genuine, and there are good 
examples of positive impact in inclusion to date. But we 
must redouble our efforts to make sustained progress. We 
will work harder to recruit and support students, faculty, staff and leaders who are representative of the full range of people who would like to call UBC home.
22 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018The Indian Residential School History and Dialogue Centre 
(IRSHDC ) opened its doors to the public in spring 2018.  
The Centre was conceived with two key goals in mind. 
First, it is a place where former students and survivors, and 
their families and communities, can access their records and other historical materials gathered by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada and others. It is  
a place for them to share their experiences and to consider, 
with others, the consequences and implications of what 
happened to them. Second, the IRSHDC  serves as a source 
of educational and public information for students at  
UBC and elsewhere, and for online and in-person visitors. 
The IRSHDC  connects much of UBC’s Indigenous research, 
learning and engagement, providing a space that  
promotes inclusion, respect and accountability. 
www.irshdc.ubc.caSnapshot on Inclusion
23 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
“ I believe that a university is a 
place of academic excellence but it needs to also be an institute that can reach out to society at every social level  
and be inclusive in the way it connects with all types of people. ”
 ubc FACULTY member 
24 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
25 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
26 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018collaboration
Advancing purposeful, co-ordinated action across the university 
and with the broader community for enhanced impactTheme two
26 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
27 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Theme Two: Collaboration
Because opportunities and challenges are rarely confined 
to the expertise of a single individual or to disciplinary  
or institutional boundaries, universities must become more 
adept at collaboration. From climate change, to emerging 
public-health issues like the opioid crisis, to our strained social cohesion, progress will require new ways of working within and across disciplines and with the community. These challenges demand a new approach to research,  
in which interdisciplinary researchers or multidisciplinary teams come together to supplement the work in the disciplines and to advance discovery, scholarship and knowledge exchange. Collaboration also has ramifications 
in teaching and learning, in curriculum and course design, 
and in providing students with the latitude to navigate  
their interests and aptitudes. 
With our two campuses and many learning and research 
sites—and through the strength of our connections across 
the province and beyond—UBC is well positioned to 
cultivate collaborative efforts. The School of Biomedical Engineering, formed in 2017 through collaboration between the Faculties of Medicine and Applied Science, offers students access to experts working to advance the role of technology in health sciences and health care. Other examples include the Centre for Inclusion and 
Citizenship (which connects the UBC School of Social 
Work with community living organizations seeking to further the integration of persons with intellectual disabilities); the Language Sciences Initiative (which considers the uniquely human phenomenon of language 
across multiple disciplines); the Okanagan Institute for 
Biodiversity, Resilience and Ecosystem Services ( BRAES ) 
(which brings together faculty members and students across departments working in ecology, biodiversity, 
conservation and environmental sustainability); the 
Stewart Blusson Quantum Matter Institute (which seeks to understand and develop new quantum materials through international collaborations with such partners as the University of Tokyo and the Max Planck Society); and the 
Pacific Institute for the Mathematical Sciences ( PIMS ) 
(which promotes research and education in the 
mathematical sciences across ten universities).
28 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 28 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018UBC Health is an institutional consortium across UBC’s 
health disciplines. It complements the activities of individual faculties and schools through its focus on tasks 
of shared importance that require intensive coordination. 
As the sole education provider in British Columbia for many health disciplines, UBC is uniquely placed to play a leading role in the provincial and national transition to  
a system that is more patient-centred, community-based, 
team-oriented and evidence-informed. Together with  
our health authority affiliates, UBC accounts for over  
80 per cent of health research in British Columbia and has 
worked closely with other universities to increase 
provincial research funding. The university is intent on 
facilitating the path towards a more integrated health care system, and UBC Health is critical in this aim. The UBC Plan in Health  outlines priorities for inter  disciplinary research, 
education and innovation that support this ambition, 
enabling the university to help activate the collective 
assets of the province in the pursuit of greater societal wellbeing and economic benefit. Snapshot on Collaboration
29 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
“ UBC has huge potential and  
a responsibility to contribute to 
solving global issues, such as climate change. ”
 ubc student 
3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018 29 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
30 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018These efforts demonstrate the extraordinary value of 
collaboration in our academic endeavours. Each has succeeded in creating the conditions required to coalesce 
people, ideas and actions, even where these have 
challenged institutional and personal norms. We will work hard to remove barriers and, where appropriate, establish mechanisms to encourage further and sustained collaboration—internally and with off-campus partners 
such as Indigenous communities. The role of ‘catalysts’  
or champions in helping establish these new practices  
will be important.
31 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018innovation
Cultivating creativity, resilience and shared risk-taking that  
catalyze new approaches within the university and beyondTheme three
32 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Theme Three: innovation
In a world characterized by complex societal challenges 
and heightened public expectations, broad-based innovation is imperative. As institutions of research and 
learning, universities must embrace creativity and risk-
taking across all their activities. Technology and data are reshaping our world and how we interact with one another; this explosion of information is opening new opportunities for study, problem-solving and knowledge exchange 
beyond the academy. For instructors and learners, there 
are gains to be had in supplementing the traditional classroom experience and opening access to education through online learning. Universities must support 
students, faculty and staff in acquiring the skills and 
competencies necessary for achieving success in this rapidly changing landscape. Beyond its role in the evolution of research and education, this spirit of innovation must also characterize how public universities operate and 
steward resources. More specifically, there is a compelling 
need in British Columbia to be a global centre of innovation in order to remain one of the best places in the world in which to live and work.  For many years, UBC has been a key partner in advancing British Columbia’s technology, natural resources, life sciences, cultural and information sectors. We are at the 
forefront of innovation in green buildings and communities, 
and have helped lead research that  demonstrates the potential for smart cities. Such innovation is fuelled by an expanding network of support for entrepreneurship  
at the university, campus and faculty levels. This includes 
technology incubators in the Faculty of Applied Science 
and the Sauder School of Business, Sauder’s Centre  
for Social Innovation & Impact Investing (S3i) and the Innovation Precinct in the Okanagan that creates a 
revolutionary new space for research and development 
activity. The Library’s Small Business Accelerator provides free access to reliable resources to help British Columbia businesses and entrepreneurs enhance their performance. The Centre for the Study of Democratic Institutions  
and the Summer Institute for Future Legislators are part of a broad set of initiatives to encourage innovation in governance. UBC’s location in a corridor of innovation anchored by universities and industry across the Pacific Northwest is a crucial underpinning. The Cascadia  
33 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Urban Analytics Cooperative, through which we work  
with the University of Washington and Microsoft, is an 
example of our collective capacity for discovery and 
impact. Using and integrating approaches from the social 
and computation sciences, this collaboration seeks  
to address chronic urban challenges, ranging from homelessness to traffic congestion. 
We are also renowned for our long-standing commitment 
to innovation in teaching and learning. The UBC Vancouver Centre for Teaching, Learning and Technology ( CTLT ) and 
the UBC Okanagan Centre for Teaching and Learning ( CTL) 
support faculty members in pedagogy and curriculum 
design. They co-ordinate dedicated annual competitions 
for funding that solicit, assess, facilitate and evaluate proposals from faculty members and students for innovation in courses and programs. Going forward, we must ensure that our efforts in innovation remain purposeful, connected and enduring. They must extend across all our learning, research and 
operations activities. And they must support constructive 
engagement with partners beyond the academy.
34 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 34 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Research conducted at UBC has changed the world in many 
ways, from ensuring sustainable use of coastal marine ecosystems through UBC’s Project Seahorse to developing 
composite materials used in commercial aircraft. By enabling 
multiple ‘Research to Innovation’ pathways, UBC helps  
take new knowledge generated from research through to socio-economic impact. Some of these pathways, such as commercialization through licensing and patenting, have been 
supported for 30 years, with many notable achievements. 
These include the largest licensing deal in Canadian history—the $140-million licensing of a drug for prostate cancer—and the provision of panoramic stitching software used in mobile 
phones throughout the world. Since 2013, the university has 
offered support for new venture creation by students, faculty and staff through entrepreneurship@UBC (e@UBC). Many  
of these endeavours are already having an impact, including Acuva, an easy and low-footprint water-disinfection 
treatment based on light-emitting diodes (LEDs). Knowledge 
exchange pathways that translate research results into policies and practices exist across the university. For example, research from the School of Population and Public Health,  
in partnership with provincial health care and research 
institutes, has been influential in setting and directing policy 
in cervical cancer prevention and reproductive health in Canada and around the globe. At the intersection of research, learning and engagement, these pathways extend and  
deepen UBC’s impact.Snapshot on innovation
35 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018 35 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ Innovation could truly  
be the hallmark for UBC in  
the next ten years. ”
 ubc alumnus 
36 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Our work as a public institution is represented by four core  
areas: People and Places , Research Excellence , Transformative 
Learning , and Local and Global Engagement . UBC has considerable 
strengths—and exciting new activity—in all four areas. However, 
there are clear opportunities within each for progress that the plan sets out to address. 
Consultation during the planning process resulted in the distillation 
of 20 strategies  that will help shape the university in the coming 
years. There are rich connections between the strategies and the themes and core areas. Most of the strategies embrace multiple facets of our university community, and many engage our external partners. Each is intended to provide support and guidance to  
the activities of faculties, schools, departments and cross-cutting initiatives, as expressed in their own strategic plans.Four core areas and associated strategies
37 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018people and places
Creating vibrant, sustainable environments that enhance  
wellbeing and excellence for people at UBC and beyondcore area one
37 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
38 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018At the heart of the university’s identity, People and Places  
refers to the mutually reinforcing groups of people and 
locations (physical and virtual) that endow UBC with its 
special qualities and define how our work is accomplished. 
Our campuses in Vancouver and the Okanagan are situated on the traditional, ancestral and unceded lands  
of the Musqueam and Syilx Okanagan communities, respectively. This central fact is foundational to much of 
the research and educational enterprise of the university 
and is reflected in important installations on our campuses, including the Reconciliation Pole  by Haida Chief 
7idansuu (James Hart) on the Vancouver campus. UBC’s 
location further enables connections with Asia and the 
Pacific Rim that position the university as a unique place for discourse, learning and engagement.
‘People’ naturally includes students, faculty, staff, alumni 
and residents, as well as our Indigenous partners. But also 
included are postdoctoral research fellows, medical 
trainees, lifelong learners, emeritus faculty members and retired staff—in addition to volunteers, philanthropic supporters, colleagues at other institutions, and those with 
whom we work in the local, provincial and federal 
governments. Our partners include the health authorities that provide clinical placements for our 4,000 health students across the province. And they include the disciplinary societies, community and professional associations, and unions that provide the framework for 
much of our activity. The university simply could not 
function without these constituents, many of whom connect with UBC in different capacities, and all of whom contribute perspective, knowledge and energy. Together, they make UBC a diverse place in which we thrive as 
individuals, peers and citizens. 
The ‘places’ of UBC are equally varied. They encompass 
our campuses and campus communities at Point Grey and Kelowna; locations in downtown Vancouver such as 
Robson Square; the hospitals at which our health students 
and faculty members conduct much of their work and the additional sites of our distributed medical program; the Learning Exchange in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside; and numerous sites of community-based research and learning 
throughout British Columbia, across Canada and beyond. 
Our virtual places are expanding rapidly to include online class discussions, internet-hosted open educational resources created by UBC faculty, and conference links 
that connect our various sites in collaborative research  
and learning. core area one: people and places
39 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Places play a profound role in shaping the experience  
of the people who work and live in them; people, in turn, 
are powerful influences on their places. It is our ongoing 
responsibility to ensure that our activities nurture a 
positive and reciprocal dynamic between people and places. UBC seeks to promote and protect this interaction through our deep commitments to Indigenous peoples, sustainability and wellbeing. These three aspects  
of our work, all interdependent, help to differentiate  
the University of British Columbia. 
Indigenous people and places.  Over the years, UBC  
has defined a comprehensive approach on Indigenous 
engagement, with significant accomplishments guided  
by the 2009 Aboriginal Strategic Plan. UBC offers  
180 courses with Indigenous content, as well as degrees in 
First Nations and Indigenous studies and languages (2017). The Peter A. Allard School of Law is a leader in 
Indigenous legal education in North America and the NITEP  
(Indigenous Teacher Education Program) is a Bachelor  
of Education program for aspiring Indigenous teachers that 
builds upon Indigenous identity and cultural heritage.  
But there remains much work to do. These ambitions are the subject of the 2018 Indigenous Strategic Plan , which 
builds upon the foundation laid by the Aboriginal Strategic Plan . We need to ensure that a greater number of 
Indigenous students have access to a full range of educational opportunities, and we must address 
embedded colonial biases throughout the system. We 
need to co-create curricula and research projects on matters of concern to Indigenous people and communities. Finally, UBC must contribute to a better, deeper and broader understanding of Indigenous history and peoples, 
and the legacy of colonization.
Sustainability.  UBC is regarded as a leader in 
sustainability, with a long track record of innovative 
practices and programs. We define sustainability as 
simultaneous improvements in human and environmental 
wellbeing. Our evidence-informed approach delivers innovation in learning environments, operations, infrastructure and transportation. This includes UBC’s use of the campus as a living laboratory—an approach seen in 
action at the UBC Farm and the Centre for Interactive 
Research on Sustainability ( CIRS ), for example. Embedding 
a research laboratory inside an operational facility, as with our Bioenergy Research and Demonstration Facility ( BRDF ), 
differentiates UBC’s approach. The 20-Year Sustainability Strategy , articulated in 2014, provides a long-term 
40 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018framework for the university’s planning and activities,  
but the challenges around climate change are ever more 
complex, and the stakes are high. We need to intensify  
our academic and operational efforts on our campuses, in affiliated communities and across the world. We must  
go beyond minimizing harm to becoming net contributors to human and ecological health.
Wellbeing.  In October 2016, UBC became one of the 
world’s first universities to adopt the Okanagan Charter:  
An International Charter for Health Promoting Universities  
& Colleges . The Charter includes two calls for action:  
(1) embedding health into all aspects of campus culture, 
across the administration, operations and academic 
mandates; and (2) leading health promotion action and collaboration locally and globally. The ensuing UBC Wellbeing and Thrive at UBC programs are system-wide efforts to make the university a better place to live, work 
and learn. Our focus on mental health is integral to our 
success as an institution and as a source of influence for positive change in society. UBC’s Wellbeing Strategic Plan , 
under development in 2018, will channel university-wide effort and ensure continued focus. We recognize the past injustices that have occurred at UBC in regards to sexual violence. The university will do everything in its power  
to both prevent and respond to sexual violence on our campuses and across university actitivies.
Universities are increasingly competing for the very best 
student, faculty and staff talent, and UBC is no exception. 
In addition to the imperatives noted above, we must 
address the significant challenges related to housing and transportation, improve the ways in which we work, enhance the student experience and improve quality of life for all members of the university community. These are 
fundamental to our continuing ability to attract and retain 
outstanding people. Of course, students eventually become alumni—and in 2017, our alumni numbered more than 325,000 in 140 countries. We have made tremendous strides in building a strong culture of alumni engagement, 
but UBC must continue to find new ways to retain their 
attention.
41 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Through recruitment, advising and mentorship, 
professional development and support, we will build and sustain a global university community, representative of 
all, including historically excluded populations. Consistent 
with our intention to be a leader in diversity and equity,  
we will recruit more expansively, including Indigenous students, faculty and staff. We will work to create conditions whereby all faculty and staff feel a deep sense 
of connection and contribution to the academic purpose  
of the university. To help address affordability pressures, 
we will expand financial assistance programs for students, including funding and support for continued growth in 
open education resources, and we will improve funding for 
graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. We will enhance support structures and services to help address housing affordability in the Lower Mainland, and address childcare needs for university employees, among other 
challenges. Professional development and succession 
planning are vitally important. For this reason, we will strengthen programs that support workplace learning, course access for employees and leadership development through initiatives such as the Academic Leadership 
Development Program ( ALDP ) for faculty, and Managing@
UBC and the Community Leadership Program for staff.We will establish dedicated, accessible and inspiring 
spaces, indoor and outdoor, that provide forums for interdisciplinary interaction and that showcase the impact 
of our work more broadly. With over 65,000 students, 
nearly 12,000 of whom live on campus, such spaces create tremendous opportunities for faculty, staff and partners  
to exchange ideas with the next generation. It will be  
no small feat to re-engineer the traditional classroom, but 
UBC intends to be a leader in innovative classroom design, 
with an emphasis on digital connectivity, group work  
and problem-based learning. Virtual spaces will play an ever-more integral role, and UBC will continue to evolve 
and strengthen its digital environments. In addition to 
stimulating collaboration, innovation and community development, these ‘hubs, ’ will demonstrate UBC’s commitment to inclusion and civil discourse, and will nurture an increased sense of community. Well-conceived 
spaces are also needed to drive and enable interaction 
within and between our campuses and learning sites and with the broader community. As part of this strategy,  
we will work with partners on the development of UBC’s downtown Vancouver and regional presence, recognizing 
that many people live and work beyond easy reach of  
our campuses.Strategy 1: Great People  
Attract, engage and retain a diverse global community  
of outstanding students, faculty and staffStrategy 2: Inspiring Spaces  
Create welcoming physical and virtual spaces to advance 
collaboration, innovation and community development
42 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018We will advance sustainability and wellbeing through 
renewal and innovation in our learning environments, operations and infrastructure. The expansion of the 
campus as a living laboratory model will address social and 
environmental issues beyond our campuses. We will sustain efforts to make our campuses as safe as possible for those who study, work and live at UBC, and  will continue to work with all community members to advance 
knowledge and practice in regards to sexual violence. We 
will promote a supportive culture that enhances wellbeing and mental health, fostering connections and resilience across students, faculty and staff. Together with regional 
partners and residential communities, we will advocate  
for better transit to our campuses, as a complement to our 
focus on housing support. Improvements will not only benefit the thousands of students, faculty and staff who commute to UBC, but will also facilitate engagement 
beyond the university. Our campuses are situated in 
spectacular natural settings, and we will ensure harmony with the environment through the ecologically sensitive design of new buildings and open spaces. We will  
also make our locations more accessible to persons with 
mobility challenges and those otherwise differently  
abled. All of this will improve the daily experience of  
many at UBC.We will review and revise policies, practices and services 
to reflect our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. We will expand learning opportunities for staff 
and faculty to maximize awareness and understanding  
of these principles. We will assess the UBC landscape to 
identify areas needing focussed attention, including systems, structures and processes that can be improved to facilitate better access and success. Enhanced diversity  
in leadership is a core enabler of effective university governance, and we will seek to create equitable opportunities for advancement and selection. We will promote continued research on issues connected with 
diversity, equity and inclusion, including disability studies. 
And we will establish and implement visible, system-wide accountability mechanisms and metrics that help us assess and manage our progress towards Inclusive Excellence.Strategy 3: Thriving Communities  
Support the ongoing development of sustainable, healthy and connected campuses and communitiesStrategy 4: Inclusive Excellence  
Cultivate a diverse community that creates and sustains equitable and inclusive campuses
43 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018To support UBC’s academic mission and public mandate, 
we will transform the ways in which we work through improved administrative systems, fact-based decision-
making and clear channels for community input. Our goal 
is to enable, encourage and streamline collegial governance, enhance collaboration and create better transparency, especially between our Vancouver and Okanagan campuses. UBC has embarked upon an 
ambitious program to rebuild its student information, 
human resources and financial management systems to improve their effectiveness and integration; timely implementation of these changes will remain a priority. 
UBC will support the development of tools that take 
advantage of these systems, including our new learning management system. These tools will be created for the benefit of learners, instructors and the broader university, while respecting the privacy of all community members. 
Technology will play a crucial role in enabling efforts  
to work more synergistically across our campuses and 
learning sites. We will carefully consider any academic policies, incentives and budget models that may be constraining collaboration and innovation, and make 
changes, where required, to facilitate greater 
effectiveness.Strategy 5: Systems Renewal  
Transform university-level systems and processes to  
facilitate collaboration, innovation and agility
44 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
The accomplishments achieved under our  20-Year 
Sustainability Strategy  are numerous and impressive. 
Notably, emission reductions of 30 per cent were attained 
in less than five years through the Climate Action Plan 
2010–2015 , and concerted action is being taken towards 
the next target of 67 per cent through the recent Climate Action Plan 2020 Update . UBC (2017) has some 400 
faculty members working on sustainability-related 
research. We offer about 50 sustainability-related degree 
programs and over 600 sustainability-oriented courses. The ongoing vision of the 20-Year Sustainability Strategy  
features simultaneous improvements in human and 
environmental wellbeing with an expectation that, by 
2035, sustainability will be embedded across the university throughout teaching and learning, research, operations and infrastructure, and community development. This strategy is being implemented across 
many areas and through a variety of collaborations 
between the academy and operational units. Our efforts are intentional, inclusive and innovative, as evidenced  
by our emerging Green Building Plan . Metrics and targets 
are described in all areas, alongside strategies to reach 
further to accomplish them. Snapshot on People and Places
44 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
45 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 45 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ We should be the conduit for 
change, creating it, embracing it, nurturing it, where our role  
as an institution in today’s world provides the stimuli that unlocks or unleashes human potential. ”
 ubc staff member 
46 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018research excellence
Creating and mobilizing knowledge for impactcore area two
46 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
47 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018UBC is a research powerhouse. We are among the world’s 
leading universities for disciplinary research across many fields. Our research has had a profound impact on several 
areas of society, from groundbreaking work on how infants 
acquire language to enabling personalized oncogenomics. As one indicator, UBC ranks within the top 30 globally—and, in many cases, much higher—in such disciplines as psychology, education, law, business and economics, life 
sciences, social sciences and computer science (Times 
Higher Education World University Rankings by subject). Our strength in research translates into research-based teaching; students at UBC learn from the best in the world. 
Eight UBC-associated individuals have been awarded 
Nobel prizes, and our researchers have won numerous other national and international awards. For example, our university community includes 256 Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada and 71 Rhodes Scholars. 
Addressing local and global challenges—such as climate 
change; the largest human migrations of the last half century; and the societal shifts associated with increased automation—requires both disciplinary depth of 
knowledge and collaboration within and across disciplines 
and communities. It demands the creation of new knowledge and its accelerated translation into action, through interactions with external partners. It also necessitates resources for research services to enable 
researchers to achieve excellence in a highly competitive 
landscape. 
UBC researchers are willing and able to address these 
challenges, having already demonstrated their capacity for 
impact in many domains—such as the influential work  
of the BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS  in establishing 
the global standard of care that helped curb the 
intensification of the HIV/AIDS  pandemic. Through our 
plan, UBC will create environments that enable our 
researchers to optimize their contributions, harnessing 
disciplinary excellence and multidisciplinary collaborations to address problems of significance to British Columbia and the world. UBC will also support knowledge exchange beyond the academy; we will establish new public 
scholarship and innovation pathways, ranging from 
changes in practice and policy to entrepreneurship and commercialization. core area two: research excellence
48 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Research impact takes a variety of forms. Research might 
lead to spinoffs that take advantage of technological developments. But impact is also to be found in projects 
that lead to social innovations, change the way research in  
a certain field is conducted, inform our understanding  
of history or culture, or enrich us and our world through 
creative works. Research Excellence encompasses this broad vision of accomplishment. Our collective aim  
as a community is to be the place of choice for researchers —whether students, faculty, staff, alumni or external partners—to generate new knowledge and enable pursuits that positively impact the world. We will invest in and support emerging and established research clusters that consist of networks of diverse researchers working in pursuit of common aims. An initial 
pilot program to support clusters through the UBC 
Excellence Fund has already enhanced collaborations in areas such as green infrastructure and global challenges to democracy. UBC Health is facilitating collaboration in cross-cutting health research, including Indigenous health, 
mental health and diabetes. Building on these successes, 
we will provide researchers with the support needed to collaborate internally across UBC and externally with local and global partners. A key component of this strategy is 
enhanced research funding to attract postdoctoral fellows 
and faculty in order to strengthen our impact through these clusters.Strategy 6: Collaborative Clusters  
Enable interdisciplinary clusters of research excellence  
in pursuit of societal impact
49 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018UBC will improve support for researchers across the 
university through enhanced core facilities, spaces and services. These are imperative if researchers are to work 
effectively and productively. Globally leading research  
in many disciplines requires sophisticated equipment that 
depends on significant technical expertise to build and  
run. By creating state-of-the art capabilities such as the Sequencing + Bioinformatics Consortium for gene 
sequencing, we will provide facilities, training and advice 
for both UBC and external partners. We will explore  
ways to help researchers engage with communities and access scholarly resources. The pilot Indigenous Research 
Support Initiative, for example, offers support and services 
for Indigenous communities and researchers engaging  
in collaborative research. Digital technologies are transforming work across the academy, evident in the creation and evolution of an online database of religious 
history that is changing how historical traditions are 
studied. UBC will enhance digital research infrastructure  
in many areas of scholarship. Priorities include Advanced Research Computing (ARC) resources, technical and scientific support for research data management, data 
science, and local capacity for health researchers to 
address data access challenges.UBC will expand opportunities for undergraduates  
to gain first-hand experience in research, and we will strengthen research experiences for graduate students 
and postdoctoral fellows. Engagement in research  
builds in students the ability to apply their learning, create 
new knowledge and utilize research skills. UBC will  
develop better mechanisms to match undergraduate students with relevant research projects across the 
university, and provide them with the appropriate support, 
building on the success of such initiatives as the  
student-run Undergraduate Research Opportunities and Undergraduate Research Awards programs at UBC 
Vancouver and UBC Okanagan respectively. We will 
facilitate broadened research pathways for graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, improve their mentorship and supervision, and create opportunities for them to provide mentorship to others. These experiences 
will provide a firm foundation in skills and expertise for 
future careers, whether in academia or beyond. Success  
in this strategy demands an institutional culture  
that promotes collaboration, inclusion and innovation.  
We will create an environment that enables such 
interactions across the university. Strategy 7: Research Support  
Strengthen shared infrastructure and resources  
to support research excellenceStrategy 8: Student Research  
Broaden access to, and enhance, student research 
experiences
50 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Many researchers are keen to find pathways for 
innovation. They want to engage with users of research and wider communities to exchange ideas, knowledge and 
evidence for societal impact. UBC will enhance existing 
pathways, including those that facilitate entrepreneurship and commercialization. To our current innovation ecosystem, we will add sector specialists in disciplines such as life sciences to help form collaborations with 
organizations and individuals beyond the academy that 
enable the translation of knowledge into policies and practice. We will build expertise in knowledge exchange to help researchers across disciplines find and establish 
connections with community, corporate and international 
partners. Collaboration with organizations that help play  
a translational role, such as the Centre for Drug Research and Development ( CDRD ), co-located in Vancouver with 
the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, will be integral  
to our efforts. And we will develop better support functions and connections across these multiple pathways. We will also continue to experiment with ways of communicating knowledge so that it is more accessible to a range of communities, from citizens to decision-makers.Research culture comprises the beliefs, expectations  
and actions of our researchers, including how they select and carry out research projects; review the efforts of  
peer researchers; mentor and assist colleagues near and far; engage with external research partners; and influentially disseminate discoveries. UBC will further develop the principles and practices that define a collaborative and inclusive research culture and that 
support mentorship, scholarship, discovery and creativity. 
Addressing the problems facing society requires the contributions of all, and we will encourage diversity in perspective and approach. UBC will enable a research 
culture that interacts in positive and respectful ways with 
Indigenous people and Indigenous knowledge, and that welcomes the participation of members of other historically excluded groups. Their integrity and vibrancy are integral to UBC’s future success. Strategy 9: Knowledge Exchange  
Improve the ecosystem that supports the translation  
of research into actionStrategy 10: Research Culture  
Foster a strong and diverse research culture that embraces the highest standards of integrity, collegiality and service
51 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ Emphasis on ethics, social responsibility, and 
accountability should be woven into everything that the university does. They are foundational to our purpose and vital to achieving an educated and informed society where the university plays a central role. ”
 ubc alumnus 
52 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
Working on problems from multiple perspectives—
informed by a depth of expertise in different disciplines—can bring new insights and enable solutions to the hardest 
problems facing society. Forming partnerships and 
networks across disciplines requires support to enable new interactions and determine common foundations on which to build. UBC’s research clusters program helps these collaborations occur, coalescing activities and 
resources in areas of needed impact. At UBC Vancouver, 
the Research Excellence Clusters Initiative funded 25 clusters in its first year. These span the performing and creative arts, science and engineering, health and the 
social sciences, and the humanities. The second 
competition, in 2017, awarded 33 clusters across all disciplines, 16 of which were renewal awards. At UBC Okanagan, five research clusters funded through the Eminence Program are investigating such issues as 
community health and neurobiology. Interdisciplinary 
research is also being supported with the establishment of President’s Excellence Chairs in diverse areas, from media studies to brain health. Research clusters exemplify strategic focus across our three themes (inclusion, 
collaboration and innovation), and they serve as a 
demonstration project for the cultural and behavioural change envisaged in this plan.
Current research clustersSnapshot on research Excellence
52 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
53 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 53 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ I believe that UBC should  
seek to become a global leader 
in research in areas of critical regional, national and international importance. ”
 ubc student 
54 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018transformative 
learning
Enabling learning through evidence-based teaching,                             
mentorship and enriched experiencescore area three
54 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
55 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018At its best, education is transformative and has a lasting 
and continuing impact on the learner. UBC is renowned for the excellence and breadth of its education, with a long-
established track record in teaching and learning 
innovation. Transformative programs like Arts One, Science One and MECH 2 (Engineering) offer dynamic 
interdisciplinary learning experiences for students  
and provide faculty members with rich environments in 
which to develop and study creative, effective approaches 
to teaching. Beyond individual programs, UBC supports transformative learning through initiatives that have involved hundreds of faculty members and impacted 
thousands of students. 
The Carl Wieman Science Education Initiative features 
extensive evaluation of learning gains and substantial research output on the scholarship of teaching  
and learning. It is a model now adopted widely by other 
institutions. Flexible Learning is a university-wide effort  
to explore technology-enabled teaching innovation.  
Since its inception in 2013, Flexible Learning has adopted  
a team-based and scholarly approach to foster, support and evaluate blended learning and teaching enhancement 
projects that have impacted over 400 courses and  40,000 students. Thousands of students across the university participate in experiential or work-integrated learning each year. The Faculty of Medicine organizes 
undergraduate medical education across the province 
through a distributed model that combines face-to-face, online and experiential learning, with many graduates choosing to stay and practice in rural locations as a result. Transformative Learning extends also to the broader 
community, for example, where people from Vancouver’s 
Downtown Eastside are engaged with faculty and students at the UBC Learning Exchange or through the Humanities 101 courses, and from Kelowna at the Downtown Education 
Project at the Ki-Low-Na Friendship Society.
But changes in learner demographics and interests are 
reshaping the university. A rapidly diversifying economy, social context and job market demand a different kind  
of education: one with a greater focus on competencies 
and transferable skills, such as critical thinking, 
collaboration and communication, and one that promotes and supports continuous learning. To keep pace with the information age, and to meet the increasing expectations 
of students and employers, universities are investing 
systemically in active, experiential and online models of core area three: Transformative Learning
56 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018education. The best among these efforts capitalize on 
students’ inherent curiosity and drive, engaging them as co-creators of their education. Universities must extend 
their traditional offerings, based on pedagogical research, 
to serve their populations better and must rethink programs, spaces and facilities to enable new ways  
of learning. Faculty and staff are working hard to deliver technological advances. Universities need to support  
them in this effort. 
Activities at UBC will focus on enhanced support for 
program redesign around competencies; the development of problem-solving experiences; technology-enabled 
learning; and continued growth in work-integrated and 
professional education. Sustained progress in Transformative Learning will require leadership across  
the institution to model, inspire and celebrate excellence  
in teaching and mentorship. UBC’s commitment to  
its Educational Leadership Stream faculty, whose sole university focus is education, is a bold statement of  
our intent, and these colleagues will play a pivotal role  
in achieving our goals.UBC will provide greater support for instructors in their drive to be highly effective teachers and to develop their craft. Practices that engage student curiosity and initiative 
will be particularly emphasized and valued through 
appointment, tenure, promotion and merit processes. We will expand opportunities for graduate students to learn about teaching in addition to research. More broadly, we will work with faculty, graduate students and postdoctoral 
fellows to reimagine and strengthen graduate programs  
as career paths continue to diversify. The university  
will also sustain and evolve efforts to support faculty in the 
ongoing integration of evidence-informed pedagogies  
into their classrooms, and encourage innovations that have the potential to improve upon traditional learning approaches. Online and blended education, predicated  
on a clear understanding of the requirements of different learner ‘segments, ’ will continue to be areas of focus  
in experimentation and evaluation, both on campus and through open platforms. These modalities offer access, connectivity and interaction possibilities that can enhance campus-based learning. In appropriate contexts, they  
can remove the need for physical co-location.Strategy 11: Education Renewal  
Facilitate sustained program renewal and improvements  
in teaching effectiveness 
57 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Like most universities, UBC has traditionally organized  
its curriculum around a structure of credit hours  
delineated by courses. The Faculties of Medicine and  
Arts have adopted more flexible program structures 
organized around learning outcomes, which allows students to progress through a finer-grained set of  
learning experiences that build competencies. UBC will move further towards using learning outcomes as a 
primary organizing principle of program structure and 
completion. This approach will better engage student curiosity and initiative: it allows for a more individualized approach, supporting learning with clearer feedback to 
help students focus on competencies they have yet to 
master. Our plans here must be made with care, as many disciplines face highly structured accreditation requirements and course structures, including necessary prerequisites. Efforts to redesign programs will need to 
respect these and will involve strong collaborations 
between faculty and students, and, in many cases, alumni. The process will be treated as an opportunity to build  
a better understanding of student learning and how it can be supported most effectively. We will work with external partners and alumni to  
increase experiential learning—‘learning by doing’—across academic programs, and to enhance career services. 
Where these connections extend beyond the province, 
they will create scope for UBC to broaden its perspective and capacity for influence. Through initiatives such  
as the Work Learn Program at UBC Vancouver, we will strengthen opportunities for students to develop 
professional and research skills while studying. All these 
efforts will improve the ability of our graduates to secure meaningful employment. Through UBC Extended Learning (ExL), we will support faculty in expanding online and  
other accessible offerings in response to evolving demand from working practitioners and lifelong learners, many  
of whom are UBC alumni. Scholarly communication is a skill consistently ranked at the top of those required beyond the degree. In collaboration with all faculties at 
UBC Vancouver, the Faculty of Arts will create a unit to 
house academic and professional communications curricula and related services. Our ability to make progress on this strategy is predicated on strong industry and community relationships; we will work hard to deepen and 
better co-ordinate these connections. We must also infuse 
a passion for continuous learning in our students, faculty and staff.Strategy 12: Program Redesign  
Reframe undergraduate academic program design in terms  
of learning outcomes and competenciesStrategy 13: Practical Learning  
Expand experiential, work-integrated and extended learning opportunities for students, faculty, staff and alumni
58 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018We will further develop academic structures that foster 
and support opportunities for students from different perspectives and disciplines to work together on complex 
or emergent problems. Students develop expert thinking 
faster when they are given well-designed opportunities  
to integrate concepts they have learned across several courses to tackle new, larger issues and problems. When students across a range of programs work together, the 
result is a rich, high-level learning experience that builds 
expertise in ways no individual, discipline-based course can achieve. The Social Ecological Economic Development Studies ( SEEDS ) program is an example of this approach:  
it engages students across the university in project work that tackles real-life issues such as waste management and the opioid crisis. UBC will pilot and assess new ways to integrate problem-focussed educational opportunities  
as an overlay or complement to traditional majors and 
minors. We will also optimize structures to allow 
integrative graduate and postdoctoral learning to flourish. In this way, we can work toward a day when UBC students will graduate with disciplinary expertise and experiences and skills that address their passion for a specific topic  
or challenge. Working closely with student government, we will create opportunities for students to feel more engaged and better supported during their time at UBC—outside as well as 
inside the classroom, across all our campuses and learning 
sites. We will expand holistic, developmental and professional student advising and engagement to support students in determining and realizing academic, career  
and personal goals. This will enable our students to 
become self-directed learners who navigate—and 
increasingly shape—their pathways through courses and curriculum. We will heighten efforts to ensure the provision of mental-health resources for all our student 
populations. We will continue to develop and improve 
student ‘hubs, ’ such as the AMS Nest on the Vancouver campus and the Student Union on the Okanagan campus. Attention to student wellbeing is afforded by major investments in UBC Recreation facilities, and initiatives 
such as Jump Start and the Collegia seek to help first-year 
students find their places at UBC. Our work will foster a greater sense of belonging, predicated on personal growth within smaller, diverse communities in the context of a large and complex community. Strategy 14: Interdisciplinary Education  
Facilitate the development of integrative, problem-focussed learningStrategy 15: Student Experience  
Strengthen undergraduate and graduate student communities and experience
59 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ Our place, our home. Canada can be a leader for 
the world, and the British Columbia perspective on sustainability, innovation, entrepreneurship and, most importantly, community, should serve as the path forward. ”
 ubc staff member 
60 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 60 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Snapshot on Transformative Learning
Arts One is an established eight-month program that 
features learning in small groups with an integrated, interdisciplinary curriculum. Every year, students choose 
between two themes, such as ‘Knowledge and Power’  
or ‘Hero, Anti-Hero’, each led by a dynamic team of 
instructors from different disciplines. Together, students and instructors analyze ancient and contemporary works that have shaped and challenged society across the 
centuries. Arts One students engage in their learning via 
expert lectures, seminar discussions and small student-centred tutorials in which they present and workshop their essays. These tutorials form one of the most distinctive 
and valuable Arts One experiences, fostering independent 
thinking and scholarly ways of knowing that enable students to thrive beyond their first year. Arts One delivers transformative learning experiences through a commitment to excellent program design and regular 
renewal. It embodies the understanding that the study of 
humanities disciplines such as philosophy, history and literature cultivates empathy, perspective and critical thinking. It fosters these competencies in the context of enduring challenges, such as class and power, and 
emergent ones, such as technological and environmental 
disruption. 
61 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 3 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018 61 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ The best measure of the 
success of UBC will be on how well our graduates do after  
they leave the university. ”
 ubc FACULTY member 
62 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018local and global  
engagement
Engaging ethically through the exchange of knowledge  
and resources for everyone’s benefit core area four
62 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
63 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018UBC is locally integrated and globally connected; it has 
always been a place of community engagement. Indeed, global perspective is embedded in the histories and 
communities that have shaped the local context in British 
Columbia and at UBC. The balance of Canadian perspective and geographic diversity across our student population is a tremendous strength; how we work together is what sets us apart. Across UBC, faculty, 
students and staff embody this work in the context of 
community-engaged research, learning and public service. Local and regional examples include the research forests that promote smart management of some of the province’s 
greatest resources; the Regional Socio-Economic 
Development Institute of Canada, established at UBC Okanagan to build an understanding of how institutions can function as active participants and drivers in the regional innovation ecosystem; the nearly 200 public 
events hosted by UBC Okanagan, 55 per cent of them in 
the community; the Portland Community Clinic that provides not-for-profit dental services in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside; and the Patient and Community Partnership for Education that seeks to effect changes in 
health curriculum and practice in response to public  input. Diverse cultural venues such as the Museum of 
Anthropology (MOA), Beaty Biodiversity Museum, UBC Botanical Garden and Pacific Museum of the Earth support 
community learning and enrichment. 
Our global networks open new research vistas and create 
educational opportunities that would not otherwise exist. They also enable UBC to help mobilize positive change 
across the world and to assist our partners in making 
progress in their own goals. We have many close and productive associations with universities and organizations throughout North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand, Africa and Latin America. UBC’s Asia-Pacific 
connections, built over many years, have yielded a 
powerful set of partnerships and academic exchanges. UBC is regarded as an educational and policy gateway to China, with the UBC China Council playing a key role in collating knowledge and in catalyzing, facilitating and 
supporting engagement. UBC boasts the top Asian Studies 
department in Canada, as well as the oldest and largest Punjabi language program in the country, a model of community-engaged learning. Many other units have 
developed distinctive research and curriculum strengths 
oriented toward Asia. Of special note are the increasing core area four: Local and Global Engagement
64 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018numbers of UBC alumni of East, South, Southeast,  
Central and West Asian heritage, who bring expertise and 
deep connections to the community when they interact 
with UBC. 
We must continue to play a strong role in engagement, 
learning about the world around us and empowering people to be good stewards and change makers. This 
requires an outward orientation in our education, research 
and community development. It requires a willingness to collaborate and connect, with the passion for engagement that is a part of the fabric of UBC. It requires structures and processes to support the students, faculty and staff 
who make robust contributions to the intellectual, social 
and economic lives of our communities. It requires UBC to become more open and navigable to external individuals and organizations. And it requires the capacity to listen and adapt to the evolving needs and dynamics of the world 
beyond the university. The School of Public Policy and 
Global Affairs, established in 2017, is an example of this approach. Its goal is to catalyze a network of scholars, learners, partners and civil society to foster collaboration, 
creativity and intercultural understanding. We will sustain the important work of engagement and 
expand its scope to connect our local and global efforts more effectively. Our engagement with Asia has a regional 
and national reflection in our growing engagement with 
Asian-Canadian communities. Our commitment to improved engagement with Indigenous people is anchored in, but extends beyond, British Columbia. We will also sustain our focus on building meaningful relationships  
with UBC alumni the world over. Students are involved in  
much of this activity, whether on campus, in the community or abroad; we will expand opportunities for them to participate. 
65 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Through dialogue and knowledge exchange, we will work 
to align UBC’s efforts more closely with priority issues  
in British Columbia and beyond. This will also help ensure 
that the public is more consistently aware of UBC’s 
academic endeavours. It is important that we recognize the different strengths and local contexts of our campuses as we consider opportunities for engagement. From a  
2017 base of 130 new community-based and action 
research projects, and learning initiatives that place more 
than 5,000 students in community settings annually, we will work more closely with our partners to ensure that these are well conceived, managed and evaluated from all 
perspectives. Our endeavours and interactions through  
the School of Public Policy and Global Affairs will 
contribute to solving problems of local importance and global consequence. Programs such as the Public Scholars Initiative, which builds connections and capacity for  
PhD students interested in linking their doctoral work to an area of public benefit, will be a key component of this strategy. We will work with government and industry to enhance British Columbia as a place to do business. And we will seek opportunities to collaborate with government 
and peer institutions to strengthen the post-secondary 
education system for the benefit of students and citizens  
in the province.Much of the guidance for UBC’s Indigenous engagement can be traced back to the 2009 Aboriginal Strategic Plan , 
which outlined ten Key Areas of Strategic Engagement,  
and beyond that to the UBC-Okanagan Nation Alliance Memorandum of Affiliation (2005) and the UBC-Musqueam Memorandum of Affiliation (2006). The plan and memoranda  have been models of effective action, with implementation reports published in 2010, 2012 and  
2014. UBC will adopt a similar approach in implementing Shaping UBC’s Next Century . The 2018 Indigenous Strategic 
Plan will continue this work and represent our shared commitment as a university community. It will also provide 
the framework for statements of faculty- and unit-level 
commitments that will form UBC’s response to the Calls to Action  released in 2015 by the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission of Canada.Strategy 16: Public Relevance  
Deepen the relevance and public impact of UBC research  
and educationStrategy 17: Indigenous Engagement  
Support the objectives and actions of the renewed Indigenous Strategic Plan 
66 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Consistent with the alumni UBC  strategic plan, Connecting 
Forward , we will work with alumni UBC, together with 
targeted efforts across faculties and departments, to 
broaden and deepen engagement through programs that 
cultivate pride, empower personal growth, support professional development and enable contribution. Connecting Forward  builds on the vision of a “global alumni 
community for an exceptional UBC and a better world. ”  
Its strategic imperatives are to extend engagement to  
50 per cent of all alumni and to double the number of alumni more deeply involved at UBC. Many alumni are in a strong position to provide mentorship, encouragement, 
connections and collaboration with current students, 
faculty and staff. UBC is also in a strong position to provide alumni with opportunities to update their skills or engage in lifelong learning. We will seize opportunities to extend the reach of our alumni programs, services and 
communications by continuing to increase the effective 
use of digital technology and digital platforms. The Robert H. Lee Alumni Centre on the Vancouver campus, opened in 2015, provides a fitting hub for much of this engagement.We will prioritize and support collaborations that benefit the world and our partners—as well as create value at UBC  
—and foster new alliances in areas of shared, strategic 
importance. As of 2017, UBC partners with 11 of the 15 
top-ranked universities in the world in research and educational activities, and has agreements with more than 300 universities and research institutions in more than  
50 countries. We have an opportunity to leverage UBC’s 
location and diversity to further strengthen our Pacific Rim 
engagement, enhancing our capacity for regional and international influence and contributing to social cohesion more broadly. We will support mechanisms, such as the 
UBC China Council, to advance our relationships and 
extend our connectedness. We will also simplify processes for international collaboration. Finally, we will continue to expand opportunities for faculty exchanges, for our students to study abroad through Go Global and other 
initiatives, and for international students to participate in 
exchange programs at UBC. Through collaboration,  
at home and abroad, we will help students, faculty and staff broaden their perspectives, learn from peers  
and colleagues around the globe, and contribute to a 
shared positive impact.Strategy 18: Alumni Engagement  
Reach, inspire and engage alumni through lifelong 
enrichmentStrategy 19: Global Networks  
Build and sustain strategic global networks, notably around the Pacific Rim, that enhance impact
67 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Community engagement at UBC has been part of research, 
teaching, service and student-led initiatives since the institution was founded. However, we could be more 
consistently focussed, coordinated and effective across 
these endeavours. We will work with diverse partners to listen, learn and develop shared values for effective engagement. We will better align our structures, processes, funding and incentives to reinforce effective 
practices consistent with these values, and to reinforce a 
culture of reciprocity. We will also seek to co-ordinate our efforts and remove barriers to community engagement. The establishment of a joint framework for engagement 
with local and global partners is the first step. To shift the 
prevailing model and mindset, UBC will increase support for students, faculty and staff working with, and in, the community. We will create mechanisms for our partners  
to access and navigate the university. This strategy  
also extends to deepening our engagement with campus neighbourhoods to support the unique and vibrant experience of living at UBC.Strategy 20: Coordinated Engagement  
Co-create with communities the principles and effective practices 
of engagement, and establish supporting infrastructure
68 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
Snapshot on Local and Global  
Engagement
68 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Given the historical importance of Asian migration to 
Canada—and to British Columbia specifically—UBC is intent on building stronger connections with established 
and growing Asian Canadian communities. One example is 
the 2011 Senate approval of measures to commemorate the 76 Japanese Canadian UBC students who were forcibly removed from the university and their homes on the west coast in 1942, after the start of the Second World War.  
The creation of the Asian Canadian and Asian Migration Studies Program is another notable milestone. This program in the Faculty of Arts responds to community issues and concerns by providing opportunities for 
students to engage in multidisciplinary learning and 
research through community-based activity. The Asian Canadian Community Engagement  (ACCE ) committee 
includes faculty and staff from multiple units and functions as a hub to cultivate respectful community engagement  
to bolster UBC’s academic mission. 
69 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018
 69 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018“ UBC’s greatest strength is  
its role in transforming 
communities worldwide and promoting social justice. ”
 ubc alumnus
70 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018People and places
Strategy 1: Great People  
Attract, engage and retain a diverse global community  
of outstanding students, faculty and staff
Strategy 2: Inspiring Spaces  
Create welcoming physical and virtual spaces to advance 
collaboration, innovation and community development
Strategy 3: Thriving Communities  
Support the ongoing development of sustainable, healthy and 
connected campuses and communities
Strategy 4: Inclusive Excellence  
Cultivate a diverse community that creates and sustains 
equitable and inclusive campuses
Strategy 5: Systems Renewal  
Transform university-level systems and processes to  
facilitate collaboration, innovation and agilityresearch excellence
Strategy 6: Collaborative Clusters  
Enable interdisciplinary clusters of research excellence  
in pursuit of societal impact
Strategy 7: Research Support  
Strengthen shared infrastructure and resources  
to support research excellence
Strategy 8: Student Research  
Broaden access to, and enhance, student research 
experiences
Strategy 9: Knowledge Exchange  
Improve the ecosystem that supports the translation  
of research into actionStrategy 10: Research Culture  
Foster a strong and diverse research culture that embraces 
the highest standards of integrity, collegiality and servicethe strategies at a glance
71 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018transformative learning
Strategy 11: Education Renewal  
Facilitate sustained program renewal and improvements  
in teaching effectiveness 
Strategy 12: Program Redesign  
Reframe undergraduate academic program design in terms  
of learning outcomes and competencies
Strategy 13: Practical Learning  
Expand experiential, work-integrated and extended learning 
opportunities for students, faculty, staff and alumni
Strategy 14: Interdisciplinary Education  
Facilitate the development of integrative, problem-focussed 
learning
Strategy 15: Student Experience  
Strengthen undergraduate and graduate student 
communities and experiencelocal and global engagement
Strategy 16: Public Relevance  
Deepen the relevance and public impact of UBC research  
and education
Strategy 17: Indigenous Engagement  
Support the objectives and actions of the renewed Indigenous 
Strategic Plan 
Strategy 18: Alumni Engagement  
Reach, inspire and engage alumni through lifelong 
enrichment
Strategy 19: Global Networks  
Build and sustain strategic global networks, notably around 
the Pacific Rim, that enhance impact
Strategy 20: Coordinated Engagement  
Co-create with communities the principles and effective 
practices of engagement, and establish supporting 
infrastructure
72 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Shaping UBC’s Next Century  is a strategic plan for the  
University of British Columbia. It acts as a roadmap to help guide, 
connect and support other institutional plans. In addition to  
the university-wide plans referenced throughout the document (2018 Indigenous Strategic Plan, UBC Plan in Health, 20-Year 
Sustainability Strategy, Wellbeing Strategic Plan, Connecting Forward ), campus and faculty plans from different areas of the 
university are referenced on the following page.other institutional plans
73 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018Vancouver Campus
Faculty of Applied Science  
Faculty of Arts  
Sauder School of BusinessFaculty of Dentistry  
Faculty of Education  
Faculty of Forestry  
Faculty of Land and Food Systems  
Peter A. Allard School of LawFaculty of Medicine  
Faculty of Pharmaceutical SciencesFaculty of Science
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies  Okanagan Campus
Aspire  (UBC Okanagan visioning plan)  
Irving K. Barber School of Arts and SciencesSchool of EngineeringFaculty of Education  
Faculty of ManagementThe plans for the Faculty of Creative and Critical  
Studies and the Faculty of Health and Social Development 
are currently under development as of April 2018.
74 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018The plan provides thoughtful guidance for action. It is a framework 
for decision-making, allocation of effort and resources, and evaluation of progress across the university. The plan also provides guidance for engagement beyond our campuses and associated research and learning sites. Faculties and others will review their respective strategic plans and identify opportunities for alignment and synergy.Implementation and accountability
75 UBC’ s strategic plan 2018The next steps will be translating these strategies to 
actions and creating project plans to guide and align our efforts. Some of these actions will be ongoing, possibly 
requiring adjustment or different forms of support or 
additional funding; many will be new, arising in response to the direction and focus of Shaping UBC’s Next Century . 
Some of the latter can or must be initiated in the first year or two of the plan; others will follow. Some will be cross-
cutting initiatives; others will be specific to one or more 
units. Actions will be revisited and renewed annually.
We intend to be thorough and rigorous in implementation. 
Our actions will be guided by responsible leadership that is 
accountable for budgets and progress. Our project plans 
will be public, with milestones and measures that provide assurance about progress. Where possible, we will pilot ideas and assess outcomes before making wholesale change. The plan is intended to encompass most activity 
across the university, rather than reflect a collection of 
ancillary tasks. It will accordingly act as a useful mechanism for determining what we might be able to  
stop or defer doing. We will continue to seek input from students, faculty, staff, alumni and partners as we move forward. We will track our progress against the objectives of the strategic plan and 
will check and revise our direction and focus in response  
to changes both within and beyond the university. Ongoing 
discussion around prioritization, dependencies and capacity will be critical. We are committed to ensuring that our people and teams are appropriately resourced, 
supported and connected in the various initiatives that 
constitute Shaping UBC’s Next Century . 
For more information please visit  
ubc.ca/strategicplan
