1DELIVERINGSTRATEGY2030
FUTUREFOR OUR
3 2
STRATEGY 2030STRATEGY 2030
Since 1845, Queen’s University staff, students and alumni 
have made a difference to societies locally, nationally and 
internationally. Today, we are one of the UK and Ireland’s 
leading universities and continue to shape and serve the 
world around us through our research and teaching. 
Queen’s has always been a generator of knowledge. We tackle the issues 
faced by individuals and societies at a local, regional and global level 
and we are an engine of progress that is central to the socio-economic 
success of Northern Ireland. 
Strategy 2030 sets out our ambition for the next ten years to shape a 
better world through life-changing education and research across our 
disciplines, investing in our people, both students and staff, to ensure 
excellence and impact. 
Our Strategy has been developed through extensive engagement with 
staff, students and external stakeholders at a time of unique global crisis 
- the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Strategy 2030 defines the response of the University in this crisis as we 
drive the social and economic recovery of Northern Ireland, a recovery 
that must be based on inclusion and sustainability. The role of Queen’s 
in the recovery underlines our vision to meet the needs of Northern 
Ireland, driving social and economic change with global resonance.
STRATEGY 2030 SETS OUT  
OUR AMBITION FOR THE NEXT 
TEN YEARS TO SHAPE  
A BETTER WORLD  THROUGH 
LIFE-CHANGING EDUCATION 
AND RESEARCH 
5 4
STRATEGY 2030OUR VISION OUR VALUES
Our vision is to be a global research-intensive university, 
generating internationally leading research coupled with 
outstanding teaching and learning, focused on the needs of  
our society, locally and globally . Our ambition for 2030:The University’s success is a reflection of the success of our 
people. Our core values will underpin all that we do, and 
academic freedom will ensure respectful enquiry, debate and 
progress.
02
03
04
05
06
0701
£A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY 
From our hub in Belfast we will build partnerships and 
collaborations across the globe, attracting the brightest and the 
best, being known for our exceptional record in diversity, inclusion 
and sustainability.
FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 
FOR GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
A university that is financially sustainable, with the capacity to 
invest to deliver the best opportunities for students, staff and 
society in a changing world.AN ANCHOR INSTITUTION
An anchor institution in Northern Ireland that takes pride in social 
and civic responsibility, supporting progressive social change and 
economic growth in an environmentally sustainable way.A GREAT PLACE TO WORK
A leading employer for equality, diversity and inclusion with an 
organisational culture that supports and empowers staff to produce 
their best.RESEARCH OF THE HIGHEST  
QUALITY AND IMPACT
A university known for research of the highest quality, with 
impact and exceptional translation driving strong partnerships 
with industry and business.A TRANSFORMATIVE EDUCATION
AND STUDENT EXPERIENCE
That inspires and delivers the engaged global citizens of tomorrow 
with flexible and broad-based learning opportunities that are 
lifelong, coupled with outstanding support.SCALE NEW HEIGHTS
Climbing the Global league tables and ranked in the top 175 
in the world.INTEGRITY
RESPECT
EXCELLENCEAMBITIONCONNECTIVITY
7 6
STRATEGY 2030       
             FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY                              INFRASTRUCTURE          TECHNOLOGY
SOCIAL AND CIVIC 
RESPONSIBILITY, 
AND ECONOMIC 
PROSPERITYRESEARCH
AND INNOVATION
EDUCATION
AND SKILLSGLOBAL REPUTATION 
AND PARTNERSHIPSOUR 
PEOPLEREALISING
OUR VISION
We will realise our Vision by focusing on four priorities:
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 
BUILD ON OUR RICH HERITAGE 
OF INNOVATION, BOTH 
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL, 
AND FOCUS ON TRUE GLOBAL 
CHALLENGES• Our People
• Financial Sustainability• Infrastructure
• Technology 
Our Strategic Priorities build on our rich heritage of innovation, both 
economic and social, and focus on true global challenges aligned to the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. These resonate with the 
specific needs of, in particular, Northern Ireland and also more widely on 
the island of Ireland and in the UK and are underscored by the impact of 
the pandemic.
Their delivery will require an interdisciplinary, cross-institutional, cross-
sectoral, and international approach with partnership working. We will 
develop our people to meet these priorities with a goal-centred culture, 
creating an environment to nurture achievement and creativity, focused 
on quality and excellence.
While our ambition reflects a vision with a 10-year horizon, the 
operational delivery will be set in a dynamic way with a rolling three-year 
approach to allow us to respond to risks and opportunities.These will be underpinned by four enablers:• Education and Skills 
• Research and Innovation 
• Global Reputation and 
Partnerships • Social and Civic 
Responsibility, and 
Economic Prosperity 
9 8
STRATEGY 2030STRATEGIC PRIORITY: 
EDUCATION AND SKILLS
A Queen’s education will provide our students with a sense of 
purpose and the competencies to shape their own lives and to 
contribute to the lives of others. We will ensure our students have 
the skills to work globally, but the opportunity to build a career 
locally, meeting the needs of the economy in key sector areas 
and supporting the growth of the knowl edge-based economy in 
Northern Ireland.   
Deliver a transformative student experience
Through a partnership approach with students, we will establish a transformative 
student experience with wellbeing, inclusivity and cultural diversity at the fore. 
Our new central campus Student Centre, including a new Students’ Union facility, 
will be the focal point for the delivery of integrated and holistic support services. 
We will ensure our students are internationally connected, benefitting from both a 
multi-cultural experience on campus and a range of global opportunities with our 
network of partners.
Provide an education for societal impact
We will continue to prepare our students for leadership and citizenship in a global 
society, committed to sustainability and social responsibility. Our educational 
programmes will be increasingly focused on embracing the ethos of the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals at a local, national and global level. 
For our students there will be a focus on their role as future leaders with the 
transdisciplinary skill set required to pre-empt and respond to local, national and 
global challenges.
Broaden access to Higher Education 
We will ensure that Queen’s is accessible to students from all backgrounds 
and that every learner is supported in the development of their full potential. 
Partnership arrangements with Further Education Colleges and Schools, along 
with revised admissions criteria, will broaden the opportunities to study here and 
expand the diversity of our students.
Innovate our Teaching and Learning 
We will innovate our Teaching and Learning with curriculum and assessment 
development, the use of digital technology and skills enhancement in relation 
to employability, innovation and entrepreneurship. We will further enhance our 
links with business and industry, working in partnership to ensure we produce 
graduates with the skills needed for key sectors of the economy. We will also 
ensure a flexible and innovative module portfolio which offers students access to 
a wider range of cross-discipline and cross-Faculty educational opportunities.A QUEEN’S EDUCATION 
WILL PROVIDE OUR 
STUDENTS WITH  A SENSE 
OF PURPOSE AND  THE 
COMPETENCIES TO SHAPE  
THEIR OWN LIVES AND TO 
CONTRIBUTE TO  THE LIVES 
OF OTHERS.
11 10
STRATEGY 2030STRATEGIC PRIORITY: 
RESEARCH AND  
INNOVATION
Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful 
and world-leading research that has positively changed people’s 
lives. Our ambition for 2030 is to further enhance our impact by 
strengthening our research position and working with industry 
to broaden our translational impact and innovation, ensuring we 
deliver high-quality, world-leading research, which addresses local 
and global challenges. 
Strengthen our research portfolio 
We will enhance our research culture, investing in areas of research strength 
and particularly our translational expertise, working across disciplines and 
sectors to address local and global challenges, incorporating the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals. Our strategic research themes will focus on:
• A transformative and sustainable economy
• Secure connected intelligence – AI and the data revolution
• Healthy living for all
• Human environment relations
• Inclusive and cohesive communities
Enhance our research collaborations
We will expand our reach through co-operation and strategic collaborations, 
building research partnerships locally, nationally and internationally. We will 
work with partners to address the common challenges across these islands, with 
UK and Ireland-wide initiatives and the ‘levelling up’ regional agenda of the UK 
Government, where Northern Ireland has so much to offer.
Address real world need
We will address real world need and priorities through intensive engagement 
and co-creation with potential users of research output and innovation across 
universities, and with business, industry and governments. We will enhance our 
translation through partnership initiatives and specifically capacity and capability, 
such as the Belfast Region City Deal and the wider Regional Growth Deals. 
Foster a creative, inclusive and collaborative culture
We will champion a culture that attracts, develops and nurtures outstanding 
research talent, inspires our students and rewards excellence. Our researchers will 
benefit from a range of development opportunities to enable them to thrive in 
their research, advance their careers and reach their potential as future leaders. 
We will invest in our researchers to develop international excellence from our 
postgraduate research students, through early career researchers and Fellows,  
to international research leaders.QUEEN’S HAS A PROUD 
HISTORY OF  CONDUCTING  
INNOVATIVE AND WORLD-
LEADING RESEARCH THAT 
HAS CHANGED PEOPLE’S 
LIVES.
13 12
STRATEGY 2030AT QUEEN’S, WE WILL 
FOSTER AN ENVIRONMENT 
WHERE  LOCAL IMPACT 
AND GLOBAL AMBITION 
PERVADES ALL OUR 
ACTIVITIES.  STRATEGIC PRIORITY: 
GLOBAL REPUTATION AND 
PARTNERSHIPS
At Queen’s, we will foster an environment where local impact 
and global ambition pervades all our activities. We will enhance 
our international reputation as a world-class research and 
educational institution, communicating our distinctive impact to 
the world. Through our global reputation, we will also promote the 
international profile and connectivity of Northern Ireland.  
Offer an international experience 
We will offer an international experience that attracts and supports exceptional 
individuals from around the world, making Queen’s a destination of choice for 
talented students and academics and leading to an enriched learning environment 
for all. We will identify and invest in opportunities that promote global mobility 
for our staff and students, sustained research programmes and postgraduate 
collaborations.
Enhance our international networks and partnerships
We will focus our efforts on high-quality international partnerships, in areas of 
strength, which will support our priorities in research and education. We will 
explore partnerships that allow us to embrace opportunities we could not access 
alone, with partners who are eager to support initiatives that take us forward 
in our mission, and in so doing help deliver the growth and global reach of the 
University. 
Advance our global alumni engagement
We will maintain close connections with our highly valued community of alumni 
around the world ensuring they are ambassadors for Queen’s, and we will develop 
new and innovative opportunities to engage them with purpose in the work of the 
University.
Lead and shape the agenda on social transformation
We will engage in a socially transformative and responsible way. We will provide 
platforms for debate and policy development on key global challenges and deliver, 
both at Queen’s and around the world, major public-facing events, focusing on 
significant societal issues. We will encourage and support our staff to take leading 
roles in external bodies and learned societies, using our knowledge and expertise 
to inform policy and influence decision makers.
15 14
STRATEGY 2030STRATEGIC PRIORIT Y: 
SOCIAL AND CIVIC  
RESPONSIBILIT Y, AND  
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY
Universities are uniquely placed to shape the world in which we 
live, by helping to solv e the challenges faced by individuals and 
communities at a local, regional and global lev el. They also have 
a pivotal r ole to play in underpinning the economic, social and 
cultural growth o f their region. Queen’s is centr al to the socio-
economic success of Northern Ireland; we are a University for 
Northern Ireland and will be both accessible, agile and responsive 
to the needs and priorities of our region and our world.
Enhance future economic growth and prosperity
Queen’s already makes a major c ontribution to  the Northern Irel and economy, 
but there are o pportunities to  go further. Ed ucation will prov ide the skills th at 
Northern Irelan d needs and our r esearch will dri ve the innov ations that wil l help 
to stimulate t he economy. We wi ll deliver on the Regional Growth Deals and the  
Northern Ireland Executive’s strategic priorities  and secur e funding to focus on 
the strengths of  Queen’s and No rthern Ireland. We will also deliver o n the UK 
Government’s in dustrial and innovation priorit ies in the context of Northern 
Ireland, and on greater UK/I reland research pa rtnerships. We  will partner wi th 
other anchor ins titutions to deliver c ollective imp act and maximise benefits. 
Drive social change
We will address key social cha llenges in Northern Ireland, suc h as poverty, 
inequality, conf lict resolution and climate cha nge through our r esearch and 
teaching, and also through our role as a major civ ic institution in the region. We  
will demonstrate  our c ommitmen t to tackling  social inequali ty through widening 
participation a nd lifelong lear ning opportunities, as we meet the needs of society. 
We will promote  social cohesion  and drive soci al change with glo bal resonance. 
Achieve a better and more sustainable future for all
The United Nat ions Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a  blueprint 
for achie ving a “better and more sustainable futur e for all” by 2030. We will  
embed the SDGs across all our a ctivities, from rese arch and education to 
adopting a lead ership role in the promotion o f the SDGs, and lea ding by example 
in areas such as equality, diversity and inclusio n, sustaina ble procurement and  a 
commitmen t to disinvestm ent from fossil  fuels.
Transition to a zero-carbon society
One o f the most promine nt challenges facing society is climate change and the 
associated envi ronmental issues fundamen tal to securing a sustainable fut ure. 
We will build up on our suc cess to date in  tackling climat e change and, as a  major 
civic university, develop a plan to enable us  to continue on our journe y towards 
reaching net-ze ro carbon emissions as soon as possible.UNIVERSITIES ARE 
UNIQUELY PLACED TO 
SHAPE THE WORLD IN 
WHICH WE LIVE
17 16
STRATEGY 2030ENABLERS UNDERPINNING
THE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
The Strategic Priorities will be underpinned by four enablers – Our 
People, Financial Sustainability, Infrastructure, and Technology 
– to ensure we have the optimum environment, resources and 
systems needed to deliver our vision.  
Invest in our PEOPLE
We will create a vibrant organisational culture, based on our core values, which 
enables all our people to thrive, with a continued focus on high performance, 
staff wellbeing, development, engagement and greater opportunities for 
flexible working. We will further our sector-leading role in equality, diversity and 
inclusion and become more efficient in our processes and procedures, reducing 
bureaucracy and empowering staff to deliver on key priorities.
Improve our effectiveness and FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 
to allow growth and development 
We will implement organisational change to improve our effectiveness and 
resilience, with operating, financial and budgetary processes redesigned to further 
enable and support delivery of our Strategic Priorities. We will regularly review our 
progress against our Strategic Priorities, providing an evidence base to support 
the alignment of resources. We will work with the Northern Ireland Executive 
to ensure that higher education is sustainably funded and will strengthen our 
financial position through income growth and diversification, with a renewed 
focus on targeted philanthropic support and increased research contribution.
Ensure world-class INFRASTRUCTURE for our staff, students 
and community
Our ambitious Estate Strategy will support and enable the delivery of our 
Strategic Priorities. Our campus will be further enhanced through the completion 
of key projects, such as the Student Centre, including a new Students’ Union 
facility and the Riddel Hall expansion, and will provide a welcoming environment, 
open to the community for the benefit of the region. We will create greater 
capacity and capability for our research and innovation, specifically through the 
Belfast Region City Deal (BRCD) and wider Regional Growth Deals in Northern 
Ireland, which will also drive economic impact.
Maximise the benefits of TECHNOLOGY 
We will develop an integrated digital strategy to maximise the organisational 
benefits of embracing leading-edge technology and enhance our digital 
infrastructure to ensure an outstanding student and staff experience and 
international connectivity. Our IT systems and processes will be agile and 
responsive and meet the needs of staff and students, including flexible working 
and learning and ensure we have the technology to support our role as a hub for 
innovation and entrepreneurship.INFRASTRUCTURE
TECHNOLOGYFINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY
OUR PEOPLE
19 18
STRATEGY 2030OUR PEOPLE
Be among the leading  
universities for equality,  
diversity and inclusionOUR CURRICULUM
Educating global citizens 
through a transformative  
student experience
OUR STAFF
Invest in our staff  
and enhance pride  
in the UniversityOUR GLOBAL IMPACT
Be a top 50 university for 
our global impact
OUR GLOBAL REPUTATION
Be ranked in the top 175  
in global league tablesOUR INNOVATION
Develop further our outstanding 
track record in innovation  
and technology transferOUR STUDENTS
Be a destination of choice 
for talented students, 
growing international  
recruitment and diversity
OUR SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
Deliver our commitment 
to widening access  
and sustainabilityOUR RESEARCH
Be among the UK’s leading  
research-intensive  
universities
OUR FINANCIAL  
SUSTAINABILITY
Generate an annual  
surplus for reinvestment£DELIVERING FOR
OUR FUTURE
We will assess our progress towards realising 
our Vision and delivering Strategy 2030 
using the following indicators.
20
STRATEGY  2030SHAPING  
A BETTER 
WORLD
SINCE 1845
