Universiti Putra Malaysia(UPM) - 

UPM STRATEGIC PLAN 2021-2025
The UPM Strategic Plan 2021-2025 (PSUPM) was developed as an effort to continue UPM's legacy of excellence as a continuation of the 2014-2020 Strategic Plan. It also expresses a continued commitment in ensuring that UPM has a high competitiveness in offering higher education services at the local and international level.
Briefly, this PSUPM describes the challenges, shared values, goals, strategic objectives, action plans and success targets of UPM to increase contributions, roles and excellence in academic aspects, research, student excellence, knowledge dissemination, agricultural development, institutional strengthening, values and governance and sustainable development that will be implemented for the period 2021 to 2025.

VISION
To be an Internationally Reputed University

MISSION
To Make a Meaningful Contribution to the Establishment of National Prosperity and Development as well as Universal Human Well-Being Through Exploration and Dissemination of Knowledge

EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
To produce Bitara Graduates who are Holistic, Compassionate, Patriotistic and Resilient

CORE VALUES
Courtesy, Diversity and Sustainability

Staff and students are among the main pillars that will support the aspirations and goals of the UPM Strategic Plan 2021-2025. Therefore, UPM needs to ensure that staff and students appreciate, strive and form a high commitment towards achieving the Vision and Mission that has been set. Thus, the UPM Strategic Plan 2021-2025 is based on three main core values ​​that need to be shared values ​​of the UPM community; namely Kindness, Diversity and Sustainability.

 

IHSAN

Ihsan includes every good deed or job, which is performed correctly, skillfully, efficiently and effectively. It aims to achieve perfection, have high quality, and support excellence in every practice. Courtesy will be a core value that forms a culture of high integrity among UPM people. Through the appreciation and practice of the value of Ihsan, UPM citizens can manifest the universal virtues that have been held all this time, namely trust, fairness, truth and transparency, wisdom, gratitude and patience, efficiency, speed and precision, sincerity, caring, discipline, clean, responsible and dedicated. Indeed, creating excellence is the responsibility of all UPM communities that are planned in the form of collective collaboration, across various service boundaries, and the impact is the excellence of the university's image and reputation.

DIVERSITY

Diversity is defined as the wealth of resources in UPM that are able to boost excellence. The diversity of disciplines, expertise, culture, talent and services supported by a quality environment and strong community integration have built UPM's strength and uniqueness in the higher education sector. Indeed, UPM is confident and believes that diversity will improve the quality of life, grow the exploration of knowledge, and at the same time be used to generate strategic networks that produce wealth for the prosperity of the community and the progress of the country.

SUSTAINABILITY

UPM is aware of the fact that higher education services that have been and are being developed need to be sustainable, relevant to future needs, able to advance knowledge and be able to develop human capital for the progress of the country. Therefore, efforts to develop good governance, cultivate excellence, take advantage of diversity, implement innovative management and produce high-impact higher education service initiatives and cultivate green sustainability practices for sustainable development are important so that UPM continues to be able to contribute to the development of global-class human capital.

UPM STRATEGIC PLAN SUCCESS TARGET 2021-2025

In order to pursue the dream and desire to become an internationally reputable university, UPM through the UPM Strategic Plan 2021-2025 has set FIVE FRAMEWORKS of key success targets. The setting of this target framework is based on corporate strategic decisions that have taken into account the capabilities and expertise available, especially centered on UPM's main thrust areas.

1. PEOPLE & TALENT OF THE FUTURE
• Produce graduates who are competitive in facing future challenges
• Produce graduates who are holistic, courteous and patriotic

2. RATING AND INTERNATIONAL RANKING
• Top 200 in the QS World University Rankings;
• Top 200 in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact World University Rankings;
• Top 30 in the QS Asia University Rankings;
• Top 20 UI-Greenmetric World University Rankings;
• 2% of subjects in the Top 100 and 20% of subjects in the Top 200;
• Top 50 by Subject, in the QS World University Rankings ranking list for the field of Agriculture & Forestry;
• 5 Star in QS Rating; and
• MyRA and SETARA.

3. HIGH-TECH AGRICULTURE
• Become a Reference Center for Food Security Innovation and Sustainable Farming
• Become a Reference Center for Tropical Agriculture Development
• Stand out as a catalyst for the nation's agricultural industry with a high technology focus

4. COMMUNITY WELFARE AND NATIONAL PROSPERITY
• Become an institution that cultivates advanced research
• A network of industry and society concerned with sustainable development
• Become a leader in green sustainability practices
• Research innovation contributes to the formation of national wealth

5. GOVERNANCE AND GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY
• Smart Campus and Digitization
• Digitization Transformation of Financial Support System
• University financial sustainability through Waqf, Zakat and Endowment platforms
• Sustainable institutions are resilient through effective risk management

GOAL

OBJECTIVE 1
To create resilient graduate characters to face future challenges

GOAL 2
Create a Research and Innovation Hub that Generates Value Based on Sustainable Ecosystems

GOAL 3
Preserve the Ecosystem of Industrial and Community Networks

GOAL 4
Strengthen Agriculture and Food Security Resilience

GOAL 5
Strengthen Institutional Governance, Financial Sustainability and Green Sustainability Practices

TIME PERIOD OF UPM STRATEGIC PLAN AND MONITORING PLAN 2021-2025
UPM's Strategic Plan is designed and developed for a period of five (5) years starting from 2021 to 2025, and this Plan covers collective efforts for two phases as follows:

First phase

2021-2023

(3 years)

Second Phase

2024-2025

(2 years)

The First Phase 2021-2023 is an important phase because it takes into account the objective direction the university wants to achieve and is a catalyst for UPM's transformation. The Second Phase 2024-2025 is the empowerment and excellence of the university in the implementation of the UPM Strategic Plan 2021-2025.

The evaluation and monitoring process of this Strategic Plan will be implemented during the presentation of the achievement of UPM's Key Performance Indicators (KPI), because the Strategic Objectives of the UPM Strategic Plan are in line with UPM's Annual KPI which is measured and evaluated four times a year as per the following information:

UPM KPI Achievement Evaluation for the first quarter and UPM Strategic Plan Evaluation
April 2021-2025 (Achievements Jan to March)

Mid-year UPM KPI Achievement Presentation and UPM Strategic Plan Evaluation
July 2021-2025 (Achievement April to June)

UPM KPI Achievement Evaluation for the third quarter and UPM Strategic Plan Evaluation
October 2021-2025 (July to September Achievement)

Year-end UPM KPI Achievement Presentation and UPM Strategic Plan Evaluation
January 2022-2025 (October to December Achievement)

