VISION	AND	STRATEGY	Put in place to drive Chulalongkorn University towards excellence in the years 2021-2024 is a clear strategic master plan that focuses on positioning the university as a leader in creating knowledge and innovations from cutting-edge research.  Equally important is the aim to produce graduates who are future innovators that can transform society into one that is capable of adding value to existing resources, as well as build ties with global communities.   All efforts will essentially set Chulalongkorn University as a national university that has proudly moved forward internationally. MISSION	1.	DEVELOP	FUTURE	LEADERS	Create a culture of lifelong learning through academic programs that promote entrepreneurship and sustainability. 2.	CREATE	IMPACTFUL	RESEARCH	AND	INNOVATIONS	Stimulate innovative enterprises for society by creating research that is in-depth and extensive, and adding innovative curriculums and interdisciplinary fields. 3.	GUIDE	AND	MOVE	FORWARD	THE	LOCAL	AND	GLOBAL	ENGAGEMENT	Engage in partnerships with local and global communities, governmental agencies, industries, and universities for a more sustainable society and economy. STRATEGIC	PLAN	2021-2024	1.	FUTURE	LEADERS:	Chulalongkorn University students, faculty, staff and external units all cooperate to use the university space to build success internationally, and take the lead in peacefully and evidently moving the future society rich with wisdom.  2.	IMPACTFUL	RESEARCH	&	INNOVATION:	Increase the ratio and number of publications in academic journals to reach the top 10% and 25%.  Also, operate innovation businesses using Chula 
research and technology to generate revenue, raise funds of at least 1 billion Baht, or reach an accumulated market value of a similar amount, while gaining acceptance from the academics and society as a leading research university in particular fields. 3.	SUSTAINABLY:	Create impactful projects to develop society sustainably and be able to quickly evaluate related indicators with world impact rankings.  Possess systems to efficiently create and manage projects, and be able to predict possible impact to social development in the future.  Chulalongkorn University is determined to produce graduates who are global citizens that are responsive to the current and future needs of society.  The university also provides opportunities for learners everywhere in the country, ASEAN, and the world to join in this place of knowledge.  As needed, assistance can be provided until graduation and students are encouraged to produce sustainable real-world impact innovations that will benefit society.  New leading innovations will be incubated to foster knowledge, understanding, and direct experience in creating real innovations.  The creations will be an inspiration of creativity for the next generation of innovators and be a means to use the university’s capabilities to service society, providing swift solutions to social problems while staying competitive and relevant as an international university of the nation.  
