Estates Strategy  
2020-2040
January 2020

02Contents
Executive summary 03
1.0 Introduction 07
1.1 Summary of the University Strategic Plan 07
1.2 Purpose of the Estate Strategy 07
1.3 Aims of the Estate Strategy 07
1.4 Overview of the current estate 07
1.5 Governance 08
1.6 Key responsibilities 08
2.0 Estate strategy 09
2.1 Key estate issues and objectives 09
2.2  Contextual background 10
3.0 The estate 11
3.1 Overview of the Campuses 11
3.2 The character and performance of the estate 12
3.3 The size of the estate 12
3.4 Age of the estate 12
3.5 Condition of the estate 12
3.6 Operating Costs 14
3.7 Non-Residential accommodation
3.8 Student Accommodation 14
3.9 Commercial estate 15
3.10 Service Charges 15
3.11 Procurement 15
3.12 Construction sector strategy 15
3.13 Information Technology 16
3.14 Digital Campus  16
3.15 Energy 16
3.16 Sustainability 18
3.17 Zero-carbon 18
3.18 Sustainable Travel 194.0 Future requirements 20
4.1 Academic Space (Teaching & Learning) 20 
4.2 Research Space  20 
4.3 Loughborough Science & Enterprise Park 20 
4.4 Sports Development Centre 21 
4.5 Student Requirements 22 
4.6 Future IT Infrastructure Requirements 22 
4.7 Future Digital Campus 22 
4.8 Generation ‘Z’ 23
5.0 Estates Master Plan 2020-2040  
 
Appendices 25
A Loughborough Estates Strategy Framework 26
B Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2020-2024 27
C Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2025-2030 28
D Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2030-2040 29
E Estates Capital Framework Major and Minor  30 
 Projects (June 2019)
F Campus Parks 31
G East Park Strategy 2020-2040 32
H New Loughborough Students’ Union 33
I Central Park Strategy 2020-2040 34
J Student Village Strategy 2020-2040 35
K West Park Strategy 2020-204 36
L LUSEP Strategy 2020-2040 37
M Energy Demand 38
N Pedestrianisation and Sustainable Travel 39
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Executive summary
03Loughborough University’s strategy
The University’s ‘Building Excellence’ strategy has four core 
drivers – Investing in our staff, Educating for Success, Growing 
capacity and influence, and Raising standards and aspirations – 
with research, teaching, enterprise and sport embedded in each. 
As the University’s strategy evolves so will this strategy.
Loughborough University’s ambitions
The Plan has five strategic themes:
• A distinctive international reputation for excellence
• A life-shaping student experience
• Outstanding partnerships to deliver social, economic and 
cultural prosperity
• A culture of delivering excellence in everything that we do
• One outstanding University: two vibrant campuses
Estates vision
To create quality environments in which teaching, research, sport, 
enterprise and living can thrive. 
Estate strategy
The Estate Strategy supports the delivery of the key objectives in 
the University’s Strategic Plan and provides a roadmap to 2040. 
The campus should be a reflection of the University’s values. The 
strategy aims to develop and maintain an attractive, cohesive, 
sustainable environment supporting two excellent campuses 
which provide an effective setting combining technology, 
people, place and pedagogy. The strategy will cover the period 
from 2020-2040 and be divided into three epochs, two of five 
years and one of ten years. It will adopt a comprehensive and 
integrated approach to capital investment, maintenance and 
asset utilisation. All investments should be tested to ensure 
that they deliver a tangible improvement for campus users. The 
University’s School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering 
(ABCE) will be utilised to harness expert knowledge and research 
to provide support and challenge. The Dean of ABCE has stressed 
the importance of investing in aesthetics and has proposed 
investment in an iconic building on the campus which would be a 
source of inspiration which could attract visitors to the University. 
The estate will be used as a ‘living laboratory’ by ABCE who will 
cover and embed sensors in buildings to provide information and 
data enabling the department to become intelligent custodians of the estate and make decisions based on information. By 2030, a 
decision support centre should be established, fed by predictive 
analytics drawing on data from the University’s ‘living laboratory’ 
to enable forward looking, evidence based decision making to 
manage and improve performance of the estate. 
This strategy will build upon the ‘Construction Sector Deal’ 
principles between industry and the government that aims to 
deliver better-performing buildings that are built more quickly 
at lower cost and lower energy use. These goals will be met by 
focusing on three strategic areas: digital techniques, off-site 
manufacturing technologies and whole life asset performance 
that shifts the focus from the costs of construction to the costs  
of a building across its life cycle, particularly its use of energy. 
The Loughborough estate
The University Council has recognised the unique estate as a 
significant asset: ‘The outstanding campus and halls community/
facilities, excellent student experience and unrivalled sports 
ecosystem emerged as clear strengths .The continued investment 
and support to maintain these assets should be an ongoing 
priority.’
Loughborough University (LU) campus has 440 acres is located 
close to a market town and is minutes away from the motorway 
network. The estate is in a sylvan setting, with a huge variety 
of academic, residential, commercial and sports facilities and 
is 373,000sq.m in total. There are 154 buildings as well as a 
further 85 acres that is agricultural land adjoining the campus. 
It has planning permission for the further development of the 
Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park (LUSEP) 
which is part of an Enterprise Zone. 
The campus is an attraction for both staff and students, and the 
green setting provides a beautiful environment for the well-being 
of staff, students and tenants and supports a cohesive community 
and unrivalled student experience. The estate has grown ad-hoc 
and this strategy presents an opportunity to achieve a coherent 
vision and masterplan with a strong landscape and public realm at 
its heart. The Loughborough campus presents a unique opportunity 
as the environment cannot be replicated by any of our competitors 
and our London Campus provides a city location as an attractive 
alternative Postgraduate offer.Executive summary
The Estates Strategy sets out a development framework for Loughborough University covering a  
twenty-year period from 2020 to 2040 focusing on providing the appropriate physical infrastructure  
to meet the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ strategy. 
Estates Management Committee (EMC) is the owner of the Estate Strategy’ and the Director Estates and Facilities Management  
is accountable for its future development and operational delivery.
It offers the opportunity to consider options that go beyond the short-term planning horizon in the capital framework where the  
near-term financial strategy drives decisions on the estate. 
It is important to stress that this strategy represents an aspirational view and is not a policy commitment endorsed by the University 
Council and Estates Management Committee. 
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Executive summary
04The University’s land-bank can accommodate growth for the next 
50 years at current and known projected growth rates. LUSEP 
provides the opportunity for significant long-term development of 
the University and the main campus could accommodate a further 
10,000sq.m on vacant sites and up to 40,000sq.m on potential 
demolition sites. There are around 80 LUSEP tenant partners 
linked to our Enterprise and Research strategy occupying 
c60,000sq.m of the estate and providing £2.5-3m income p.a.
LUSEP development should seek to gain maximum benefit from 
the external funding by being cohesive with the LLEP Enterprise 
Zone Implementation Plan that LU has helped develop. Our goal 
is to place LU in a dominant position to ensure that it has control 
over the whole estate and has the freedom to implement an agile 
masterplan for the development of the LUSEP sites that prioritise 
the use of LU land.
Loughborough London was opened in 2015 in 7,700sq.m of 
accommodation that was home to the 2012 Olympics and part of 
the International Broadcast Centre. An expansion of the facilities 
is planned to enable London growth to 1,400 full-time PGT and 
500 part-time students (at steady state). 
The facilities
The Facilities have been voted the best in the UK for the last four 
years in the Time Higher Student Satisfaction survey and voted 
the best in the ‘WhatUni’ 2018 and 2019 awards.
Capital plan
There has been an ambitious estates transformation over the 
last 10 years with over £350m of investment from a vibrant 
capital programme. Future priorities for investment identified 
in the capital framework include a Creative Arts Building and a 
new Students’ Union Building. The success of the strategy will 
be measured through comparison of achievement against the 
five strategic themes set out in the Estates Strategy Framework: 
or what goals the strategy is trying to achieve: building for 
the future, making the most of the current assets, affordable 
and sustainable campus, integrated campus planning and 
infrastructure and finally, healthy environment and thriving 
communities. 
A strategic conversation regarding the University’s priorities and 
ambitions and how they relate to the development of the estate 
should be held once a year between Operations Committee and 
the Estates and Facilities leadership team to help inform the 
development of the Capital Framework. EMC will continue to 
provide independent challenge as owners of the strategy. 
Estates strategy performance ambition
The Estates Strategy is aligned to the University’s strategy and 
has been developed to provide synergy between the Strategic 
vision and long-term ambitions with the planning and delivery of 
estates projects. It considers Research, Teaching and Enterprise 
developments envisaged by the Pro-Vice Chancellors to align 
visions. The success of the strategy will be measured against a 
set of quantified set of KPIs and a route map will be produced 
showing progress against the plan endorsed by EMC and 
Operations Committee.
Masterplan planning assumptions
• The quality of the estate will continue to be a significant factor 
in helping the University to maintain its leading position in the 
NSS;
• The number of students, staff and tenants using both 
Campuses will continue to grow; 
• Resist the urge to build on available land and risk making the 
estate bigger, older and more expensive to maintain;
• The future residential strategy is to provide more en-suite self-
catered rooms with four foot beds where opportunity exists.
• Requirement to build ‘flexible and adaptable’ buildings;
• Major Projects will contribute to the realisation of the 
University’s net zero carbon ambitions;
• The ‘green natural asset campus’ will be improving the 
landscape, public realm and bio-diversity;
• The proportion of the University’s spend on the estate will 
reduce in real terms;
• Limit yearly capital spend to a maximum of £30m and be 
prepared to present prioritised options if the University needs 
to reduce yearly capital spending to a level below £30m. The 
underlying rationale for the assumed real terms reduction in 
the proportion of the University’s spend on the estate in the 
coming years will need to be effectively communicated.
• In the first epoch (2019-2024), prioritise the Capital Programme 
to deliver ‘Must Do’ projects prioritised by HSE, Legislative and 
Compliance;
• Acknowledge that the Operations and EMC have accepted 
the risk that ‘Buildings will be safe but without making 
improvements to underlying mechanical services (i.e. plant, 
heating, electric) and that building operations will become 
temperamental;
• Hybrid/zero emission vehicles will have replaced most petrol/
diesel vehicles by 2030 – a sufficient charging infrastructure 
will be required.
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Executive summary
05Masterplan principles
Whole life costs • The University’s project approval process for major capital building projects > £1m should be changed 
from consideration of acquisition/build costs only to include whole life/through life costs in order to 
understand the full costs of a building across its life cycle, particularly its use of energy. 
• The whole life approach should consider whether refurbishment or new-build is most appropriate  
when a capital project is proposed.
Building  
standards• BREEAM excellent standard and EPC A rating to be considered in all future designs.
• Where possible, Passivhaus EnerPHit to be the standard for the design and refurbishment of all major 
capital projects.
• Minimal heating requirement to be included as criteria in design specifications.
• ABCE & CREST to work with E&FM to develop an impact case study around a ‘living lab’ in a school  
to demonstrate LU’s world class expertise in Energy and the Built Environment. 
• Avoidance of flooding risk through design to minimise flat roofs and penetration of roofs for plant.  
All major refurbishments will inspect and replace internal drainage as required. 
• All major projects to incorporate a rainwater recovery process as standard. 
• Improve indoor air quality and CO2 levels
Leases • The University’s approach to all leases should be to ‘maintain control’ of the estate. The University will 
not normally grant leases to third parties for development options for longer than 40 years.
• The University’s default position will be to retain control of the freehold for all LUSEP land. In exceptional 
circumstances, on a case-by-case basis, the University may consider granting long leases. Where leases 
of this type are granted explicit clauses will be included within the contract that protect the University’s 
position. The University will need to ensure that a thorough counter-party risk assessment is undertaken 
before granting a long-term lease.
Funding models • The University should self-fund capital projects where possible. 
• The University will seek professional advice on the best funding models to develop and maintain 
accommodation. The solution for the refurbishment of the residential estate may be a mixed funding 
model, supported by an attractive steady income stream. Not all capital projects would have a clear 
payback incentive, such as academic buildings, infrastructure and IT upgrades.
• The University must maintain the quality of UG and PG accommodation. Where the capital investment 
programme does not allow investment in the 2020-2030 time frame, joint ventures with third party 
providers such as UPP and Unite could be entered into in order to provide good quality on-campus 
accommodation. However the preference would be for the University to self-fund capital projects  
through borrowing which would be more appropriate to secure the long-term income stream.
UG, PG student 
and Visitor 
accommodation 
masterplan• E&FM will develop a masterplan to redevelop the Student Village concentrating on the essential 
infrastructure first. The cycle of redevelopment/refurbishment should start with the estate which is  
in the worst condition. The future residential strategy is to deliver more en-suite self-caterered rooms  
and a better ratio of kitchens and bathrooms in catered halls. 
• The masterplan for the development and maintenance of undergraduate accommodation will be 
prioritised and costed options developed.
• JV partners to develop dedicated PG single and family accommodation.
• JV partners to develop executive serviced accommodation for senior visitors requiring short term 
accommodation (up to 3 months).
IT • Provide two resilient fibre connections to each building through two diverse duct routes.
• IT should be considered at the design phase of projects.
• Wireless should integrate seamlessly with the built environment. 
Energy • Increase the Bulk Supply Point (BSP) supplying LUSEP from 2 MVA to 4.0 MVA to provide energy for 
LUSEP development.
• In the mid-longer time frame, construction of a renewable solar PV energy array to supply 10 MVA  
to the University and sell excess capacity to the grid. 
• The two campus Combined Heat & Power Plants (CHP) are approaching the end of their life. A 
strategic balance of investment decision will be required to replace the CHP’s with green sustainable 
technologies, or the University will be locked out of achieving the zero-carbon target by 2050.
• On campus renewables – consideration of solar PV array, ground source heat pumps and wind 
generation on all new and refurbished buildings.
• Identify energy and carbon hot-spots and produce mitigation plans.
• Incentivise schools and professional services to realise energy savings.
• Charging for electric/hybrid vehicles to meet demand.
Space and asset 
management• Aim to grow capacity and capability, but to use less space through better space efficiency. 
• Capital projects approval process should assess viability of multi-use spaces as far as possible. 
• Incentivise schools and professional services to improve the efficiency of building utilisation by imposing 
an efficiency tax similar to the 2% annual measure on staff costs.
Study space • Consider proposals to provide a 24/7 study space for 300 students in the Library Building and give 24/7 
access to study space in the library for PGs outside of term time.
• Ensure each school has a dedicated study space within each school building.
Pedestrianisation 
and car parking• Pedestrianisation of the West, Village and Central parks and construction of new multi-storey car parks 
on LUSEP and East Park to reduce vehicle traffic on campus and create a green central spine. 
• Introduction of autonomous electric buses.
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Executive summary
06High level roadmap – capital plan
2019-2024
• School of Design and Creative Arts Building, incorporating  
F Building
• A new Students’ Union Building 
• Construct Large Lecture Theatres
• Demolish/refurbish Whitworth Tower
• Re-develop/refurbish Student Village accommodation to 
minimum B grade standard 
• LTA & Squash courts
• London 2.0
• Sport Park Pavilion 4
• Extension to the School of Business and Economics  
(Sir Richard Morris)
• LUSEP infrastructure inc Grow on Building
• Holywell Building BMS
• Net zero carbon initiatives
• W Building penthouse potential conversion into Graduate 
Accommodation provision (inc for families)
• Car Parking infrastructure
• Options to provide Campus Nursery provision
• Public Realm
• Rolling refurbishment of learning and teaching space
• Creation of an IT Super-lab on each park
• Rehabilitative Sciences Research and Innovation Centre 
• Demolition of buildings
• Holywell pitch 4
• Stadium synthetic pitch 
• Re-purpose of EHB squash courts
• Improve campus signage/way finding2030-2040
• By 2040 all campus buildings either constructed or 
refurbished prior to 2015 will likely require refurbishment  
or demolition
• For this iteration of the Estates Strategy, it has been assumed 
that the priorities in the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ 
strategy will endure to cover the period 2030-2040
• ABCE have been requested to support the development of 
the capital programme with expert advice on technologies 
and schemes that will help LU to meet its de-carbonsiation 
targets
• Research Facilities enabled by external funding
• Further phases of Student Village new-build/refurbishment
• Development of LUSEP phases 3 & 4
• Refurbishment of Hazlerigg & Rutland
• Redevelopment of Central Park: Brockington, Wavy Top, 
Geography and EHB 
• SDC projects not delivered in 2025-30 plus: Indoor rugby 
and football facility, Football stadium enhancements
• Global sports hub 
• Renewal of the Loughborough University London Lease2025-2030
• Re-develop/Refurbish Student Village accommodation to 
minimum B grade standard (includes data cabling)
• Manzoni major refurbishment
• Refurbish David Collett & Towers
• Services infrastructure upgrade and investment in 
sustainable technologies
• Demolish: 3D design, Edward Barnsley, Fine Art, Sir Arnold 
Hall, Campus Services offices
• Pedestrianise main campus, construct large capacity car 
parks on LUSEP, E&W parks and introduce park & ride
• Public realm and landscape improvements
• Brockington extension refurbishment
• T - Building internal refurbishment
• LUSEP Phase 3 & 4 sites – phased development
• Rolling refurbishment of learning and teaching space 
• Research Facilities enabled by external funding
• SDC major projects categorized as game changers, 
enhancements and replacements: 
- Game Changers: 7,000 seat arena, 25m swimming pool, 
sports pavilion/coaching hub inc spectator seating to 
Rugby facility
- Enhancements: Performance centre upgrade - creating 
SDC hub and increased space for Powerbase 
- Replacements: Paula Radcliffe Building - track, upgrades 
to changing spaces and reception facilities
Note: the cost to deliver a comprehensive refurbishment of the student 
accommodation is estimated at >£87m and the Operations Committee 
considered this unaffordable – Nov 18.
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Executive summary
071.1 Summary of the University Strategic Plan 
The estate was established in 1909 as a technical institute and 
has developed into a top ten UK University with more than 3,800 
staff, 15,500 students, 110 campus partners and an annual 
turnover in excess of £300m. The overall aims, objectives and 
targets can only be achieved if the facilities and infrastructure 
can support and sustain world-class activity and business needs. 
This strategy identifies how the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ 
strategy will be supported. 
1.2 Purpose of the Estate Strategy
The Estate Strategy supports the delivery of the key objectives  
in the University’s Strategic Plan and provides a roadmap  
out to 2040.
This Estates Strategy will underpin the continued realisation 
of University strategy and goals and will be a key contributor to 
sustain the ‘Top 10’ position in major league tables. The estate 
has evolved on the main site in Loughborough gradually over 
many decades and now consists of two vibrant campuses in 
Loughborough and the second in London on the site of the former 
Olympic Park.
The focus for the development of the estate has been operational 
and tactical rather than strategic. The aim of this Strategy is 
to develop a 20-year vision to 2040. Since 2008 the University 
has invested £350m in the estate and facilities. Assuming the 
annual capital expenditure continues at £30m per annum, a 
further £600m could be invested over the next twenty years. 
This Strategy enables the development of vibrant, attractive, 
adaptable and financially sustainable environments that support 
teaching, research, enterprise and sport. This can be achieved 
through understanding the needs of all stakeholders and planning 
for resilience by examination of potential scenarios. A flexible 
integrated approach to capital investment, maintenance and 
space management will optimise the benefit of investments now 
and in the future.
1.3 Aims of the Estates Strategy
In broad terms the aims of the Estates Strategy are to: 
• Align the Estates Strategy with the University Strategy;
• Build on the investment, the estate will be developed and 
maintained in a phased approach over the next 20 years;
• Provide a basis for capital planning and identify priorities  
for investment;
• Provide a flexible and adaptable estate that delivers 
consistently high customer satisfaction levels;
• Plan for an affordable and sustainable estate; 
• Create a more cohesive Estate to give a stronger identity;
• Deliver a digitally informed strategy;
• Improve the quality of residential accommodation;
• De-carbonise the estate to meet the Government’s zero-carbon 
target by 2050;
• Provide a structured building/renewal programme based on  
the University Strategy and the needs of the aging estate;
• Exploit the full potential of LUSEP by working with partners;
• Provide a development context and urban design framework  
to manage future development;• Improve the landscape and public realm of the main campus 
and capitalise on the natural asset and attractiveness of the 
green self-contained campus and its unique eco-system;
• Better utilise existing space, increase efficiency and 
sustainability, reduce costs;
• Ensure that the estate complies with all HSE statutory and 
regulatory requirements;
• Provide a sustainable infrastructure for grey water recycling 
and capture to sustain the grounds.
1.4 Overview of the current estate
The Loughborough campus in the heart of Leicestershire is a 
large green site of 440 acres, providing a supportive and enriching 
environment with first-rate facilities for both staff and students. 
The estate is located close to a market town and is minutes away 
from J23 of the M1 and 20 minutes from East Midlands Airport. 
The Loughborough campus has a variety of academic, residential, 
commercial and sports facilities and is 373,000sq.m in total.
Loughborough University London postgraduate campus on Queen 
Elizabeth Olympic Park is the former site of the 2012 London 
Olympics, offers education, research and enterprise opportunities 
in London’s newest innovation quarter.
Since 2000 expenditure on capital infrastructure projects has 
exceeded £350m. There are 154 buildings as well as a further 85 
acres that is currently agricultural land adjoining the campus. 
There is planning permission for the further development of the 
Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park (LUSEP) 
and is part of an Enterprise Zone.
The estate is divided into Parks comprising: East, Central, Village, 
West and LUSEP.
The importance of the estate is acknowledged in the University’s 
risk register. Expenditure on the estate is the second largest 
expense after salaries and pensions and estates and Facilities 
Management is a critical area in the Business Continuity Plan. 
The Estates Strategy will enable the development of a prioritised 
plan that will inform lower spend if requested in line with the 
budget available.1.0 Introduction
Rutland Hall constructed in 1938 for £42,000Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
1.0 Introduction
08The Estates Strategy aims to support the University’s strategic 
plan through analysis of the existing estate and consideration of 
the Teaching, Research, Enterprise and Sport agendas for new-
build or refurbishment projects.
Based on known and projected requirements the size of the 
University’s land bank should be capable of supporting projected 
growth in the University’s strategic plan for the next fifty years. 
Improvements will need to be made to the quality of the existing 
estate to achieve a greater output from assets to provide the best 
quality environment to maintain the excellent reputation. 
Key priorities are to:
1.5 Governance
University committees are a core component of the University’s 
governance structure and decision-making processes. In 
addition to ensuring decisions are fully considered and formally 
recorded, they are used for consultation and communication.
Committees draw members from across the University, 
continuing to make a key contribution to collegiality at 
Loughborough, and are essential for the effective handling 
of much University business. Discussing issues and making 
decisions through committees ensures that the University is 
operating transparently and is accountable for its activities. 
In appropriate circumstances, to support speedy handling of 
business, certain committee powers have been delegated to 
individual officers.
There are a number of University committees and project 
management boards (PMB’s) that provide governance and policy 
direction for all estates matters. These Committees and PMB’s 
report to Senate, and Council.• Estates Management Committee: chaired by the COO, 
supported by lay members, provides expert estates advice 
relating to the estate management strategy and long-term 
strategic plan.
• Operations Committee: approves the relevant stages of major 
and minor projects and provides appropriate management and 
independent review.
• Long-Term Maintenance PMB: chaired by the Finance 
Director, the LTM PMB approves the prioritised rolling 3-year 
maintenance programme and submits this to the Operations 
and Estate Management Committees for approval.
1.6 Key responsibilities
Estates and Facilities Management is responsible for the
development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the 
University categorised as:
• Capital Projects
• Property Management
• Statutory and Compliance Maintenance
• Long Term Maintenance (LTM)
• Planned Preventive Maintenance
• Reactive Maintenance
All works will be carried out in accordance with standards set 
by the University which will be fully compliant with all statutory 
and regulatory requirements. All planned maintenance will be 
informed by detailed condition survey, the condition based LTM 
programme, and in compliance with the priorities set by the EMC. 
It will be important to work closely with the local planning 
authority and Charnwood Borough Council to prepare 
masterplans and development frameworks, particularly for  
pre-application planning, option appraisals, feasibility studies  
and individual project implementation.
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
1.0 Introduction
092.1 Key estate issues and objectives 
Loughborough is an exceptional University. The combination 
of an excellent student experience, enterprising outlook, 
world class research and unparalleled sporting achievement 
gives rise to something that’s truly special and distinctive 
among the UK’s universities. The Estates Strategy aims to 
support the development of vibrant, attractive, adaptable and 
financially sustainable environments that support teaching, 
research enterprise and sport. This has to be achieved through 
understanding the needs of all campus users now and planning 
for potential scenarios into the future. A flexible integrated 
approach to capital investment, maintenance and space 
management optimise the benefit of investment. 
Delivering a coherent estate strategy means listening to the 
needs of our customers to achieve the University’s objectives. 
In operationalising this strategy it will be important for delivery 
agents to work closely with all campus partners to understand 
their requirements and develop and deliver investment that meets 
their needs in terms of teaching, research, enterprise and sport. 
We also work collaboratively with key services to ensure delivery 
of a coherent campus masterplan.
The Estates Strategy has five key themes:
• Building for the future
 The pace of change will be significant and a major priority 
in this strategy is to introduce a digital Building Information 
Modelling (BIM) based approach. Adaptability and flexibility 2.0 Estate Strategyfor all major capital investments is paramount, such that the 
facilities can respond to changing and as yet unknown needs. 
For example, the role of the library, is now a collaborative study 
space, whereas 10 years ago it was a book repository. The pace 
of technological change will also be a significant factor and 
buildings will need to be adapted to support a digitally-enabled 
learning environment. Security and stability of power supply 
and other essential infrastructure will be essential to meet 
future demands.
• Making the most of our current assets
 The size of the University’s land bank should support projected 
growth in the University’s strategic plan for the next fifty years. 
There should be no need to expand the physical size of the 
estate; instead the University should seek to improve the quality 
of the existing estate to achieve a greater output from assets. 
This should be achieved by renovating and refitting existing 
buildings to meet changing needs, improving performance and 
reducing the environmental impact.
• Affordable and sustainable estate
 The University has a number of policies dedicated to 
environmental sustainability and these have developed and 
evolved over the last decade. All of these can be linked to 
the Estates Strategy and used to inform and support its 
delivery. The development and future operations of the 
University must be underpinned by sound sustainability 
principles. It will become a core value and principle that runs 
throughout all aspects of university businesses and will be 
visible to all and integrated into operations, processes and 
procedures. The University has made a commitment to meet 
the government’s net zero carbon target by 2050 and will 
demonstrate a consistent and meaningful engagement with 
Loughborough Estates Strategy Framework
Loughborough University Strategic Pillars
Loughborough University Strategic Ambitions
Estates Strategic ThemesTeaching
A distinctive international 
reputation for excellenceAn outstanding university;  
two vibrant campusesOutstanding partnerships 
to deliver social, economic 
and cultural prosperity
The Strategy for the University’s estate is to develop and maintain an attractive, cohesive, sustainable environment  
supporting the provision of two excellent campuses that will be a combination of technology, people and place.
Building for the future
School of ABCE  |   Academic Schools  |   Professional Services  |   LLEP/CBC/EZ  |   CREST  |   Students’ Union  |   Loughborough College1.
Emphasis on adaptability 
and flexibility
Responsive to  
changing needs
Security of power and 
essential infrastructure2.
Exploiting the unique  
green nature of our 
Campus
Renovating and refitting 
our existing buildings  
and infrastructure3.
Deriving maximum value 
from our estate
Flexible and responsive  
to change
Agile and adaptable, Open 
Systems Architectures 5.
An environmentally 
compliant and sustainable 
estate
Trajectory to achieve  
a zero-carbon footprint  
by 2050
Maintaining the  
green campus
Sustainability  
audit of projects4.
Master planning
Integrated and  
connected campusMaking the most  
of the current assetsIntegrated  
campus planning  
and infrastructureAffordable and  
sustainable campusHealthy environment and 
thriving communitiesA life shaping  
student experienceA culture of delivering 
excellence in  
everything we doResearch Enterprise Sport
Delivered through a professional Estates and Facilities Management teamUniversity Estates Strategy
PartnersLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
2.0 Estate Strategy
10sustainability through the capital development programme, 
campus operations and academic activities. Sustainability 
considerations will be evident throughout activities and be a 
common thread in forged partnerships. Active consideration 
of environmental sustainaibility including carbon reduction 
strategies will need to be tensioned against the affordability  
of projects.
• Integrated campus planning and infrastructure
 To be effective, planning must deliver a physically connected 
estate campus and the external environment through 
consideration of all factors when considering a project, e.g. 
public realm, energy, sustainability, inclusivity, footpaths, cycle 
routes, car parking and access. In endorsing the strategy, 
Senate stressed that all decisions on estates spending should 
be accompanied by a consideration of investment in IT and 
digital infrastructure. The capital programme should be 
reviewed annually to take account of new priorities, risks and 
changing economic circumstances. Planning for future mobility 
to integrate autonomous vehicle infrastructure should be built 
into plans now.
• Healthy environment and thriving communities
 The University aims to be a ‘good neighbour’ and the operation 
and future development of the campus(s) must be done 
sensitively and with respect for the local community and 
borough.
The Estate Strategy must: 
• Comply with the law; 
• Build, maintain and operate infrastructure in compliance with 
all Health, Safety and Environmental legislation.
• Operate within the terms of the Office for Students mandate; 
• Continuously improve economy and efficiency as well as 
effectiveness;
• Transform the estate through the deployment of buildings 
powered by the sun to create energy resilience and to 
contribute to electric vehicle and decarbonisation targets.
• Provide access for everybody and ensure that inclusivity and 
Disability Discrimination Act requirements are considered in all 
future plans;
• Maintain the ability to respond flexibly to external opportunities; 
• Acknowledge our social, civic, environmental and sustainability 
obligations. 2.2 Contextual background
The University continues to go from strength to strength. The 
estates and facilities are integral to the success of the University 
and have received numerous awards over the past few years. 
The pace of change for the HE sector is greater than ever. Social, 
economic and technological advancements are changing both 
what students learn as well as their learning environment. Digital 
learning and global connectivity expand opportunities for learning 
but require high investment in shortening cycles to keep at the 
forefront of practices. This technology is required and demanded 
by students to support pedagogy. 
One differentiating factor that drives much of Loughborough’s 
success is the co-located student community and facilities’ that 
provide lessons for life as well as work. The strategy must deliver 
places and spaces that support and promote study, collaboration 
and activity. It should also identify options to optimise use of the 
estate through reduction in the size of buildings made possible  
by flexible, adaptable, accessible design and operation. 
The University has a robust governance and assurance regime 
and committees exercise strict financial discipline overseen by 
the Finance Committee. Wherever possible, capital projects will 
be self-funded, and any leases granted to third-parties to build 
on University land may be capped at 40 years with the exception 
of LUSEP where longer leases may be considered to aide viability 
of some projects. A full assessment of the infrastructure costs 
should be considered in any lease negotiation.
The post Brexit impact is likely to be significant and the effects 
could include considerable inflation in construction costs, skills 
shortages in the construction industry and longer supply chain 
pipeline times. 
The unquantified impact of the Augar Review means that the 
University revenue could be less, and further efficiency savings 
may have to be delivered. With estates and facilities being the 
second largest area of expenditure, it is likely that the capital 
programme could be targeted in any efficiency round and 
therefore have an impact on any major expansion of the University 
during the next decade.
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
2.0 Estate Strategy
113.0 The estate
3.1 Overview of the campuses 
London Campus consists of 7,700sq.m of leased accommodation 
on Queen Elizabeth Park. This is one of the few buildings leased 
as an institution and by 2021 will be home to 1,400 post graduate 
students. The building will require refitting over time and the cost 
of rental will increase in line with the agreement with the landlord.
Loughborough Campus is a single site of 440 acres divided 
into geographical zones and a Science and Enterprise Park. A 
summary of the character and needs of each zone is set out below:
East Park
The redevelopment of the Student Union Building has been 
identified as one of the two large projects within the capital 
framework over the next 5 years. The Park also contains 
academic departments, extensive sport facilities and two halls 
of residence: Butler Court and Towers. Most buildings have 
benefited from refurbishment over the past 15 years although 
there are some legacy buildings identified for demolition or 
refurbishment. The relocation of the School of the Arts from 
the site shared with Loughborough College will provide an 
opportunity for development or disposal. There are extensive 
sport facilities that vary in age and condition, but all are evaluated 
as sound for the next ten years. Several of the sports facilities 
were provided by lottery funding between 2001 and 2004 and will 
revert to LU ownership prior to 2027.
Loughborough campus: parks key facts (2019)Central Park
Has been developed over the years to provide co-located teaching 
spaces and student support functions. Major refurbishments of 
Schofield and Haslegrave has benefited academic departments 
though Brockington and Manzoni Buildings remain in need of 
refurbishment in the short to medium term. F Building, previously 
occupied by the Chemistry Department, will be refurbished 
and extended to provide a new building for part of the School of 
Design and Creative Arts. Teaching accommodation in EHB will be 
supplemented by the conversion of Quorn Hall by 2020 into large 
lecture theatres. The condition of the teaching spaces is varied 
and will require investment before 2030. An extension to the 
School of Business and Economics and a new sports pavilion have 
been proposed on Central Park. 
Student Village 
Provides accommodation for 3,768 students including the 
new Claudia Parsons Hall. Some 2,537 rooms are provided by 
third-parties. Standards of the accommodation varies across 
the Village, ranging from the newer en-suite accommodation 
under 10 years old to legacy accommodation including; Cayley, 
Telford, Whitworth at circa 50 years old. Much of the supporting 
infrastructure is in need of major refurbishment and adaptation 
or redevelopment. The demolition or redevelopment of Whitworth 
Tower, including the medical centre and the relocation of essential 
utilities services, the Student Union owned Purple Onion shop and 
other student facing services will be necessary. Furthermore, the 
demolition would remove 67 bedrooms which should be replaced 
as part of future redevelopment. Once complete this project will 
enable an improved landscaped entrance to the Village and create 
opportunity for development in a key location of the campus. 
LLUUSSEEPPWWEESSTTVVIILLLLAAGGEECCEENNTTRRAALL
EEAASSTT
LUSEP West Village Central East Off 
CampusLondon 
CampusTotal site
Residential sqm 0 9,080 43,379 8,617 15,738 3,467 0 80,279
Non residential sqm 28,645 68,039 473 68,326 56,785 2,678 7,254 232,199
Commercial sqm 46,984 10,753 563       578 3,395 5,527 1,203 69,005
Overall park size sqm 75,629 87,872 44,415 77,520 75,917 11,672 8,458 381,483Loughborough Campus: Parks Key Facts (2019)
LLOONNDDOONN  CCAAMMPPUUSS
LUSEP West Village Central EastOff 
CampusLondon 
CampusTotal site
Residential sq m 0 9,080 43,379 8,617 15,738 3,467 0 80,279
Commercial sq m 46,984 10,753 563 578 3,395 5,527 1,203 69,005Non residential sq m 28,645 68,039 473 68,326 56,785 2,678 7,254 232,199
Overall size sq m 75,629 87,872 44,415 77,520 75,917 11,672 8,458 381,483Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The estate 
12To meet student expectations and ensure that the University 
remains an attractive choice against increasingly attractive offers 
from competitors, the future residential strategy should deliver 
more en-suite self-catered rooms with 4’ beds. Dining halls will 
be examined as an opportunity to create more innovative multi-
use space to maximise their utilisation. Provision of improved 
landscape and public realm infrastructure through the centre of 
the legacy village would enhance a sense of community and safety 
for pedestrians, cycling and socialising.
West Park
Traditionally this park contains engineering activities and 
has been developed over the past 10 years to provide sport, 
fitness and teaching facilities as well as a refurbished library. 
The majority of the 1960’s Arup buildings will have been fully 
refurbished by the end of 2019 leaving T Building comparatively 
tired internally but sound in terms of external fabric and services. 
The David Collett student accommodation requires refurbishment 
and essential maintenance works are being undertaken, desirable 
cosmetic works have been deferred.
LUSEP 
The development of the Science and Enterprise Park and external 
partnerships are objectives that must be tensioned against 
University uses and affordability. LUSEP phase 1 comprises the 
original buildings purchased from British Gas in 2005 that are 
occupied by a mixture of LU academic research and tenants. 
These buildings will be in need of LTM investment during 2025-
2030 to meet the standards required by tenants. The long-term 
aim will to relocate office-based LU activity from LUSEP onto the 
main campus through a mixture of redevelopment and better 
utilisation of space. Phase 2 land is currently being developed 
with LCC for a third-party tenant and outline planning permission 
is being sought for the development of the phase 3 land up to 
Snells Nook Lane. The availability of power in the quantities 
required by tenants is already a factor that could limit the 
growth of the Science Park until major infrastructure upgrades 
by Western Power are implemented or LU sources or develops 
alternative energy sources. 
3.2 The character and performance  
of the estate
There has been an estates transformation over the last 10 
years with over £350 million investment from a vibrant capital 
programme. Some of the major estates projects >£3m delivered 
since 2000 can be seen in Figure 1 overleaf.
The campus is attractive for both staff and students, the sylvan 
setting provides a beautiful environment for the well-being of 
staff, students and tenants and supports a cohesive community 
and unrivalled student experience. 
The Loughborough campus presents a unique opportunity as 
the environment cannot be replicated by any of our competitors 
and our London Campus provides a city location as an attractive 
alternative Postgraduate offer.3.3 The size of the estate 
Every University estate is different, and the size of the estate 
measured by the Gross Internal Area (GIA) metric demonstrates 
that Loughborough is in the middle of the comparator group.  
See Figure 2. 
The Space Allocation Sub Committee, in consultation with 
the Planning Office have selected a suitable group of 17 other 
Universities1 against whom to compare ourselves in respect 
of performance. Out of the many statistics submitted the main 
subjects reported to our EMC are as follows.
3.4 Age of the estate
Although the capital programme has changed the profile of the 
age range of the estate there remains a considerable number 
of residential and non-residential buildings constructed in the 
period 1960-79 and 1980-1999. Circa 50% of the buildings are 
between 40-60 years old. Buildings of this age are of poor quality 
and whilst many have been refurbished, there is still a significant 
amount of the estate that needs major work to extend its physical 
life. Where major replacements are needed this includes heating 
and ventilation systems, compliance with statutory building 
regulations and new government zero legislation. See Figure 3.
3.5 Condition of the estate
The department regularly evaluates and reviews the condition 
maintenance and compliance needs of the estate and use Estates 
Management Return (EMR) statistics to measure and benchmark 
the performance of the estate against all the HE institutions that 
submit a return to HESA. Whilst it is accepted that institutions 
assess metrics differently, it does provide a useful comparison 
and illustrates trends across the sector. 
The condition of the estate is reported annually by the EMR 
though this mechanism is currently under review by the Office  
for Students (OfS). A simple standard assessment methodology  
is used to assess the condition:
• A: As new condition;
• B: Sound, operationally safe and exhibiting only minor 
deterioration;
• C: Operational, but major repair or replacement needed in  
the short to medium term.
• D: Inoperable, or serious risk of major failure or breakdown.
Building Condition (Residential)
Loughborough
UniversityBenchmark Comparison
group (Median)
A 1.4 8.2
B 68.5 68.9
C 26.5 8.3
D 3.6 0
Building Condition (Non-Residential)
Loughborough
UniversityBenchmark Comparison
group (Median)
A 3 9.65
B 77 68.5
C 19.7 19.7
D 0.3 0.9
  1 Comparator group is detailed in the table.Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate 
13Figure 1: major estates projects >£3m delivered since 2000
Figure 2: 2018/18 Non-residential GIA insq.m
Figure 3: Construction date of the estate (2018)‘00   ‘01   ‘02   ‘03   ‘04   ‘05   ‘06   ‘07   ‘08   ‘09   ‘10   ‘11   ‘12   ‘13   ‘14   ‘15   ‘16   ‘17   ‘18   ‘19   ‘20Long lease on 
Queen Elizabeth 
Olympic ParkLU London£20m    6,194m2National Centre for Sport 
& Exercise Medicine
LU Science & Enterprise Park
£100m+m    85 hectaresDesign School
£21m    7,920m2STEMLab (new build)
£17m    5,162m2
Falkner/Eggington Refurb
£12m    573 bedsFootball Stadium
£3m    3,000 seatsFitness Centre
£6m    860m2W&S Building Refurb
£50m    20,000m2Elite Athlete Centre & Hotel
£7m    44 beds
Student Village  
Claudia Parsons (new build)
£37m    617 bedsNottingham100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,0002017/18 Non-Residential GIA in sq m
0
Sheffield
Birmingham
Leeds
Bristol
Warwick
York
Southhampton
Loughborough
Leicester
Reading
Exeter
Bath
East Anglia
Surrey
Lancaster
Bangor
Aston
20,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000Construction date of the estate (2018)
0GIA in sq m
Since 2000 1980-1999 1960-1979 1940-1959 1915-1939 Before 1840
Residential Non-ResidentialLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
14The breakdown of pool teaching rooms by size (the above table includes the new 
EHB theatres but does not include London).
3.8 Student accommodation
It is an important part of the University Strategy to guarantee a 
place in halls for all first-year students and this will be placed 
under pressure should student numbers rise. The portfolio 
consists of a mixture of on and off campus University and third 
party owned properties. The residential estate consists of 6,305 
bedrooms in total of which 3,768 are owned and managed by the 
University with the remainder provided by third parties: Unite, 
UPP and Beehive. 2,441 bedrooms are in catered halls and 3,864 
in self-catered accommodation. 
University Owned Halls 2019/20
Catered Halls Beds
Cayley 329
David Collett 322
Faraday 367
Royce 373
Rutherford 334
Towers 310
Self Catered Halls Beds
Butler Court 251
Claudia Parsons 480
Falkner Eggington 519
Telford 483
Total University 3,768
Third Party Partnership Halls 2019/20
Catered Halls Beds Handback Partner
Elvyn Richards 406 2044 UPP
S/C Halls Beds Handback Partner
John Phillips 298 2044 UPP
Hazlerigg Rutland 196 2044 UPP
Robert Bakewell 400 2044 UPP
Harry French 389 2101 Unite
The Holt 261 2103 Unite
William Morris 478 2042 Unite
Highfield, Ashby, Clavering, 
Somerton38 2102 Unite
Forest Court 71 2098 put 
option at 2020Beehive
Total Third Party 2019/20 2,537In 2018 the University Council approved a change of ambition for 
the University to be in the upper half of the comparison group 
rather than the upper quartile. The percentage of the non-
residential estate in conditions A and B is median for the group. 
The condition has improved from 16/17 but unless investment 
is maintained then building condition will fall and the backlog 
of maintenance will grow. The Capital Framework approved in 
February 2019 has helped by increasing the overall LTM allocation 
to compensate for the reduction in cyclical refurbishment works. 
It will be important to monitor carefully building condition and 
fitness for purpose considering the available budget.
Space efficiency is improving having fallen from 14.4sq.m per 
staff/student in 14/15 to 12.9sq.m in 16/17 and then risen to 
13.01sq.m in 17/18. The median for the comparison group is 
11.77sq.m. A reasonable adjustment of 10% in space to make 
allowance for the additional footprint of many sports buildings 
would bring the estate near to the median at 11.7sq.m. Reduction 
of space and increased utilisation will continue to be a focus to 
help improve quality and affordability of facilities. The absolute 
measure of carbon for the estate has remained static over the 
past few years as a result of investment in heating, lighting and 
controls infrastructure off-setting the requirement of several  
new facilities on campus.
The future reporting of these statistics is currently under review 
by Office for Students (OFS) since these may no longer be 
reported to HESA.
3.6 Operating costs
In the EMR 17/18 return, the total property costs persq.m (GIA) 
were £120.17, this is above the upper quartile of the comparison 
group of £115.29; however, due to the inconsistency of what is 
included across the sector it is more useful to consider how this 
figure changes over time for LU rather than comparing against 
the comparison group or the sector.
3.7 Non-Residential accommodation
The teaching space (school and pool teaching) comprises 
33,400sq.m, of which 15,000sq.m is pool teaching space, 
the balance being dedicated to school teaching use. The 
apportionment of space allocated to each school and for pooled 
use is shown in table x. The demand for larger teaching spaces 
to meet the increased module sizes is being addressed by the 
construction of two large lecture theatres. Analysis conducted 
by the University timetabling team shows that the trend for more 
large teaching spaces will increase; the strategy and masterplan 
will need to adapt to meet future recruitment profiles.
These figures are based on the information in CMIS  
(Timetable system) and new School structures. School Approximate  
total area M2
Loughborough University London 2000
Pool Teaching 15000
School of Aeronautical, Automotive,  
Chemical and Materials Engineering2000
School of Architecture, Building and  
Civil Engineering 500
School of Business and Economics 900
School of Design and Creative Arts 6000
School of Science 2000
School of Social Sciences and Humanities 1000
School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences 1000
Wolfson School of Mechanical, Electrical and 
Manufacturing Engineering3000
Total University 33400Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
15The condition survey of the residential estate illustrates that 
facilities range in condition from excellent (new-build) to 
poor (aging infrastructure and buildings). Apart from the new 
build, the general standard of accommodation maintenance 
and refurbishment is below that of our competitors. Evidence 
suggests that hall accommodation can be the deciding factor 
in choosing a course at Loughborough. Whilst Loughborough 
continues to win the ‘WhatUni’ award for best student 
accommodation, the University should not be complacent. The 
risk could come from other Universities or more likely, local third-
party providers which are increasing the size of their operation in 
Loughborough town. 
The condition of the legacy estate in the Student Village is 
poor in many areas and in need of refurbishment. The level of 
investment planned until 2023/24 will be adequate to maintain 
the accommodation but no more. Medium to long term strategies 
for replacement are now required and it is necessary to consider 
balancing the needs for generation of surplus income against the 
deteriorating quality of the accommodation offering. 
There is currently no planned rolling refurbishment programme 
beyond the next 3 years. The existence of a rolling programme 
is recognised as professional good practice in the provision of 
residential accommodation. This is a stipulated requirement 
when the University enters into third party residential agreements 
where a lease of its land is involved.
This strategy recommends a programme of investment. Firstly, 
to reduce failure to the basic utilities i.e. water, power, heat 
and IT. Secondly to deliver a more flexible residential estate 
which students desire and thirdly offer the option of increased 
bed numbers. The current cost of providing a bedroom in 
new accommodation at 2019 prices is c.£70k per bed-space. 
Suggested investment in total is in excess of £90m over a ten-year 
period. There is flexibility and options within this figure to extend 
or shorten the investment period dependent upon availability of 
finance at the time. A study to identify a funded plan should be 
undertaken by 2021. Stages two and three could be self-funded 
or alternatively, a third-party provider could be contracted 
to fund and build the accommodation on the estate. Third-
party providers are already well established in the HE sector 
providing a one-stop capability for the design, build, finance and 
operation (DBFO) of new and existing student accommodation for 
concession periods ranging in length from 40 years to 125 years. 
The University’s stated preference is to self-fund capital projects 
if funding can be secured. An important assumption that will be 
applied to the study is that the University will not lease land in 
excess of 40 years. It takes substantial time to conclude financial 
arrangements for DBFO deals, often up to 2 years from inception 
to contract award.
3.9 Commercial estate
The commercial property accounts for 19% of our space and 
generates income of £2.5-3m per annum. The University has 
increased the level of rent recently, in exchange tenants expect 
suitable property in a good condition. 
Within the University’s commercial portfolio, sufficient priority 
and resource must be afforded to Imago’s conferencing, hotel and 
events venues3.10 Service charges 
The governance for LUSEP has emerged over time, moving from 
primarily a single building with one or two large occupiers, to 
a multi-building site with numerous tenants on different terms 
and leases. This process of development meant that a ‘working 
arrangement’, short of normal property management systems 
for an estate of this scale, was adopted for service charges. This 
arrangement has sufficed, although it has meant that there 
has been some lost income which has impacted the recovery 
of LTM costs. The University Property Office will establish a 
legally compliant rigorous service charge system that can be 
independently audited and complies with the industry standard 
RICS Service Charge Code.
3.11 Procurement
The University has a collaborative approach to procurement and 
has partnered with the University of Leicester. The current estates 
procurement modus operandi has served the University well but 
might not support future needs. This is because the procurement 
landscape is shifting as budgets are placed under increasing 
pressure by external factors including Brexit and Augar. The 
University’s procurement strategy is reviewed regularly to ensure 
that it offers best value via development and implementation of 
category strategies, such as framework agreements for minor 
and LTM works and estates consultancy.
 
In order to optimise the procurement functions effectiveness four 
principles have been adopted:
• Procurement is engrained within the University’s planning 
processes.
• Fully worked up category strategies will cover 100% of the 
procurement spend.
• Optimum use shall be made of e-Procurement technology.
• Procurement policies and procedures will continue to reflect 
the latest legislation and best practice, whilst staying clear and 
proportionate.
3.12 Construction sector strategy
The intention in this strategy is to build on the ‘Construction 
Sector Deal’ between industry and the government that seeks to 
transform the delivery of construction and infrastructure support. 
It aims to deliver better performing buildings that are built more 
quickly at lower cost and lower energy use. These goals will be 
met by focussing on three strategic areas:
• Digital techniques deployed at all phases of design will deliver 
better, more certain results during the construction and 
operation of buildings. Design teams, construction teams and 
the supply chain working more closely together will improve 
safety, quality and productivity during construction, optimise 
Non-Re sidential
58% Residential
21%Commer cial 
19%
Vacant
2%Gross internal area of the estateLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
16performance during the life of the building and better the ability 
to upgrade and ultimately dismantle and recycle buildings. 
• Off-site manufacturing technologies can help to minimise the 
inefficiencies and delays that affect on-site construction and 
enable production to happen in parallel with site preparation 
thereby speeding up the construction of higher performing 
buildings and reducing disruption. 
• Whole life asset performance will shift the focus from the 
costs of construction to the costs of a building across its life 
cycle, particularly its use of energy. In order to meet the net 
zero carbon target, it will be important to assess the viability of 
refurbishment with retrofit technologies versus demolition and 
new-build. Whichever option is chosen the active technologies 
should be proven and affordable in both terms of capital and 
ongoing maintenance costs.
3.13 Information technology 
IT infrastructure has become a business critical utility for the 
University over the last 20 years. In 1999 there was no wireless 
network, not every office had a network point, and the student 
Hallnet service was in its infancy.
In 2019 there are now over 5,000 wireless access points, nearly 
40 of which are outdoors supporting the estate landscaping 
aspirations, and providing the connectivity required for: sporting 
events, training, and research.
IT and FM colleagues together manage over 350 communication 
locations linked by underground ducts using 750 fibre optic 
cables, providing network access to 67,000 wired network points 
and the wireless network.
Increasingly the network does not just connect computers, it 
links: 4,000 telephones, 400 CCTV cameras, gym equipment, door 
access, alarms, and even the swimming pool floor.
The campus IT infrastructure is a key element for NSS 
satisfaction, in particular, question 18 “The IT resources and 
facilities provided have supported my learning well.” In 2019, 
Loughborough were number one in England with an increase in 
satisfaction from 91.47% to 92.4% in 2018.
3.14 Digital campus 
Existing processes are diverse and considerable effort and 
complexity is required to deliver informed investment decisions 
and generate the data to provide the end-to-end flow of 
information from building design through to handover and 
operation. Digital technology is about making processes as 
frictionless as possible and decisions as effortless as possible. 
Leading estates and facilities management organisations 
are investing in digital Building Information Modelling (BIM) 
technologies and processes. A BIM based approach enables the 
creation of digital twins of the estate that can provide
the information and data required by the University to optimise 
the strategic governance of the estate.
BIM supports the planning and tendering of capital projects and 
enables contractors to handover high quality digital information, 
3D models and structured asset data that can be used for on-
going maintenance of the estate. 
In the future, the University should not be procuring any newbuild 
major capital projects without a BIM model with sufficient intelligence to inform through life management of the asset. The 
benefits of a BIM based digital approach to estate management 
are that it provides:
• Cost analysis: commission new capital projects considering 
whole lifecycle costs; 
• A single source of truth for searchable and secure ‘as built’ data;
• Safety: confidence in the reliability and traceability of safety 
critical asset data;
• Budget control: accurate profiling of capital, minor and  
long-term maintenance budgets;
• Improved estate utilisation: maximise the use of the estate by 
coordinating activity based on digital asset utilisation data;
• Reduced costs: diagnose and resolve maintenance issues 
rapidly with easy access to ‘as built’ and manufacturer 
information;
• Improved project outcomes: control deliverables and costs by 
specifying only useful asset information on capital schemes. 
Use 3D simulation software to optimise design for use and 
sustainability;
• Shared vision: a joint organisational understanding of the 
bigger picture to remove inefficient information management 
practices; 
• Becoming smart: deliver the digital agenda by accessing 
accurate estates data.
3.15 Energy 
Council and Senate highlighted that the Strategy provides an 
excellent opportunity to set the agenda within the sector on 
reducing energy consumption, creating healthier buildings, 
and improving the student experience. Figure 4 shows that 
whilst energy consumption is steady the costs have increased 
exponentially. In the future the University must reduce its 
dependence on energy suppliers and drive down energy costs and 
carbon emissions. 
Further, the reliance on fossil fuel must be reduced in favour 
of meeting heating, lighting and other power requirements 
through environmentally sustainable options. Alternative ways of 
procuring energy to supply the campus will be pursued to reflect 
best practice and future infrastructure investments should be 
based on low carbon solutions.
Measure Loughborough Comparison Group Mean
Energy cost per m2 
GIA residential13.4 15.93
Energy cost per m2 
GIA non-residential8.28 10.87
This will be supported by an Energy Strategy that will be 
developed by the Energy and Sustainability Working Group 
drawing on expertise from ABCE and CREST. The demand for 
energy, particularly on the west of the campus and on LUSEP will 
grow exponentially and further development on these sites will 
require additional clean energy supplies to be provided. 
• An assessment of the current load across the four main HV 
rings and the future electrical demand has been mapped 
against known requirements – see Appendix M. High level initial 
analysis of the potential requirement is providing indicative 
loads of between 5 and 7.5 MVA. It should be noted that there 
are many unknowns in terms of what future buildings will be 
used for and loads required for manufacturing on LUSEP. 
• Options that should be considered and adopted to increase 
energy capacity are limited. Two credible options have been 
identified and will be developed. Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
HV Supply
Sir Richard  
Morris
Towers
Holywell Park
LUSEP
Students’  
Union2019 Capital Framework to 2024
Authorised 
supply capacity
5,000
2,000
4,400
2,000
650kVAAuthorised 
supply capacity
5,000
2,000
4,400
2,000
650Spare  
capacity
620
721
65
1,923
350Spare  
capacity
260
501
25
1,708
300Projected 
maximum 
demand
4,380
1,279
4,335
77
300Projected 
maximum 
demand
4,740
1,499
4,375
292
350
17Figure 4: Energy consumption
Figure 6: Total scope 1&2 carbon emissions – 2010 baselineFigure 5: Current and predicted electrical loads2017/18 2016/1720,000,000
10,000,00040,000,00060,000,00080,000,000100,000,000120,000,000140,000,000
2018/19Total energy consumption (kWh)
GasElectricity
2017/18 2016/172,000,000
1,000,0003,000,0004,000,0005,000,0006,000,0007,000,0008,000,000
2018/19Total energy cost (£)
GasElectricity
2010/17 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/205,000
-10,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,00040,000Total scope 1&2 carbon emissions (tonnes CO 2)
33,820
tonnes  
CO 225,330
tonnes  
CO 2target 
amount
tonnes  
CO 2target 
amount
tonnes  
CO 2Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
18• Increase the Bulk Supply Point (BSP) supplying LUSEP from  
2 MVA to 4 MVA to provide energy for LUSEP development.
• A strategic decision is required to forgo any decision to dispose 
of the Moat Farm site as it could be used to construct a 
renewable solar PV energy farm on Moat Farm to supply c. 10 
MVA which will meet the projected energy requirements for the 
next 10 years and reduce the amount of the budget spent on 
energy over the same period. 
• In the 5-15 year time frame the opportunities associated with 
the emerging Vehicle to Grid (V2G) technologies should be 
exploited.
The University will seek to draw on its very considerable in-house 
research and teaching expertise on issues relating to climate 
change, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability. The 
aim is to contribute to national and international understanding 
of these issues, to educate current students, regardless of their 
discipline, and to inform and guide the University in its own 
international management of its environmental responsibilities. 
Active Building Centre (ABC) will be a national centre of excellence 
working with supply chains from energy and construction 
supported by 10 universities, including Loughborough. The ABC 
vision is to transform the UK construction and energy sectors, 
through the deployment of buildings powered by the sun to create 
energy resilient communities and to contribute to electric vehicle 
and decarbonisation targets.
University buildings consume a great deal of energy giving rise 
to high levels of carbon emissions. The potential exists to create 
and operate buildings using materials that use heat and light 
to make and store energy that can be released through ‘smart 
energy systems.’ New technologies and methods of construction 
will enable the cost effective production of highly energy efficient 
walls, roofs and windows. Active buildings can reduce energy 
costs by combining the use of solar cells and battery storage to 
draw solar heated air into buildings as well as ground source 
heating to provide warmth in the winter. A balance has to be 
achieved between the benefits of active measures vs the capital 
and ongoing support costs of the technologies.
The capital approval process requires a business case for each 
project including a section on carbon impact/reduction benefits. 
The amount of energy/carbon consumed/saved will be a primary 
driver in considering whether a project can proceed. All future 
approvals should seek climate modelling and risk assessments 
and net zero carbon projects/proposals as these will all have a 
critical impact on the University’s ability to meet the 2050 net zero 
carbon target.
The European energy market has been extremely volatile in recent 
years and a different approach to procurement has been adopted. 
Electricity and gas supply contracts are procured through a 
flexible purchasing product, rather than the more traditional fixed 
price contract arrangement, allowing direct purchases from the 
wholesale markets, daily, weekly or several months in advance 
during the contract period thereby spreading the risk.3.16 Sustainability
The University is committed to sustainable outcomes and the 
University’s strategy ‘Building Excellence’ states that ‘we will 
embed sustainability and social responsibility considerations  
into all of our processes, operations and developments.’  
The Sustainability Action Plan is built on three strategic 
principles.
• Embedded
 Demonstrate a consistent and meaningful engagement with 
sustainability through the capital development programme, 
campus operations and academic activities and embed 
sustainability considerations in school and services 
management processes.
• Visible
 Sustainability considerations will be evident throughout our 
activities and be a common thread in the partnerships that we 
forge. The University will continue to have an important role 
in enhancing the social and economic wellbeing of the town 
and the wider region, working closely with key stakeholders 
and organisations, including residents, local authorities and 
businesses.
• Integrated
 Management of environmental impact in operational activity to 
protect and enhance the surrounding environment. ISO 14001 
provides the framework to meet increasingly high customer 
expectations of corporate responsibility as well as legal and 
regulatory requirements.
These principles are underpinned by a number of strategic aims 
and objectives covering teaching, research, enterprise, sport and 
living. Operationally the University is committed to delivering 
targets and objectives in the following areas: 
• Waste Management 
• Water Management 
• Construction and Refurbishment 
• Sustainable Travel and Campus Travel Infrastructure 
• Emissions to Air & Discharges to Water 
• Sustainable Procurement 
• Carbon Management 
3.17 Zero carbon 
With the UK Government having ratified the COP21 agreement, 
UK Universities need to prepare to be net zero carbon by 2050. LU 
has a responsibility to meet the targets and aims set; and also, to 
demonstrate to the students and academics that living, learning 
and teaching on the campuses is delivered sustainably.
The University emits approx. 27,500 tonnes p.a. from the estate. 
In the EMR 2017/18 return, the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions 
per student and staff full-time equivalent (FTE) (non-residential) 
for LU are 0.9 against the median for the comparison group of 
0.7. There is potential to influence the generations that will be 
steering businesses, governments and organisations towards 
the global 2050 targets. Setting a strong example now, in the way 
universities approach reaching net zero carbon has the potential 
to empower students to become responsible global citizens and 
ensure the future resilience of the University.Loughborough University Estate Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
19
Since 2008 the University has invested £350m in the estate. 
Assuming the annual capital expenditure continues at £30m per 
annum, a further total £600m will have be invested in the estate 
over the period covered by this strategy to 2040. It is vital that this 
capital spend contributes towards zero-carbon. The University 
is well positioned to respond to the climate change agenda as 
owners, developers, occupiers and operators of the buildings. The 
cost benefit of investing in zero-carbon buildings can be realised 
many times over during the building’s lifetime and the University 
is in a unique position to become an exemplar of best practice.
To be able to meet the net zero carbon target by 2050, the 
University should demonstrate that it is on the trajectory to 
achieve this by 2040. Unless new-build is the default approach 
to future capital projects it will be difficult to meet energy and 
sustainability targets. By 2040 the estate should have seen a 75% 
reduction in our carbon emissions. This could be achieved by:
• Achieving Passivhaus EnerPHit Certification. 
• Reducing long term deterioration of the building fabric. 
• A flexible services strategy for future energy generation, 
storage and consumption. 
All modern building refurbishments should consider adopting 
retrofit technologies during project evaluation and must aim 
to achieve a relevant and appropriate level of certification, this 
could be: BREEAM, Passivhaus EnerPHit or a bespoke standard. 
Where this is not possible, it must be demonstrated that this 
approach has been considered, explain why it is not possible and 
incorporate the best standard possible. 
There is a risk associated with including the latest energy saving 
technology and devices in building projects and the University 
will therefore, be in the vanguard of the late adoption of new 
technologies. Maximising the potential benefits from in-house 
world leading academic experts in ABCE and CREST who are 
best placed to advise on these new technologies should mitigate 
the University’s exposure to risk. For example, including digital 
building efficiency measures into all new buildings could 
transform our understanding and management of the estate, 
particularly in relation to energy efficiency.The refurbishment must consider the reduction of embodied 
carbon in the project through considering the whole life cycle of 
chosen materials, transportation and the proposed building works 
and techniques. There remains limited guidance on achieving 
whole life net zero carbon and ABCE will provide guidance.
3.18 Sustainable travel
The overall aim of the Travel Plan is to ensure that Loughborough 
University is an accessible University for staff, students and 
visitors without negatively impacting on the surrounding area.  
The University will continue to actively persuade staff, students 
and visitors to change their travel habits, especially single 
occupancy vehicle use, in favour of more ‘active’ travel modes.
Emphasis is placed on the health and wellbeing of all staff, 
students and tenants by continuing to encourage ‘active’ travel 
(walking and cycling) and reducing the environmental impact of 
necessary vehicle travel.
Our ambition is to pedestrianise the central spine of the campus 
and to reduce the number of vehicles travelling to and from the 
campus through the provision of efficient and reliable public 
transport linking the transport modes and hubs. 
The campus is not an inner-city location therefore it is likely that 
there will be a requirement for 50% of staff to arrive by car for at 
least the medium-term future. There are approximately 4,300 car 
parking spaces across the campus with the majority of parking 
to the West on the LUSEP. East Park parking provision does not 
meet the current demand.
The increased demand for spaces is driven by increased student 
and staff numbers and the expansion of LUSEP with tenant 
permits now accounting for 50% of all permits. The number of 
visitors to the campus, particularly those sponsored by SDC, 
continues to grow. It is estimated that the implementation of the 
capital framework up to 2024 will result in a loss of approximately 
100 spaces.
A review of the travel management and Car Park Management 
Strategy proposals will need to consider how to meet the 
challenge of insufficient parking and an aspiration to reduce 
the total number of cars on site in the longer term. Priority will 
be given to initiatives to reduce demand through investment in 
sustainable travel alternatives including the bus service and cycle 
facilities. A strict enforcement and application of fines together 
with proposal for charging of visitors for parking is proposed.
The University could pedestrianise large areas of the campus  
and eliminate all but essential delivery and emergency vehicles 
to the centre of campus. Parking could be concentrated at West 
Park as existing and the East Park could be served by a new 
multi-storey car park on the site vacated by the School of Design 
and Creative Arts in 2024.Loughborough University Estate Strategy 2020-2040 
3.0 The Estate
20Key factors that will influence the design and operation of  
the estate:
• Increasingly diverse student demographics will have specific 
expectations. Rising demand for life-long learning will require 
skills to be renewed during working careers. The estate will 
need to engage in the ways required by the different groups 
through continuous adaption of the learning environment to 
support qualifications on a skill by skill modular basis.
• On campus quality student experience of learning and 
community will remain key. Increasing ‘blended and active 
learning as part of the University’s digital strategy will be 
important. The learning environment is required to be dynamic 
and accessible and inspire participation and innovation.
• Greater understanding of user needs in terms of spatial context 
and conditions that allow students to thrive in the learning 
environment.
• A permeable estate and facilities that promote internal and 
external synergies between academic schools and external 
partners to drive innovation.
• Priority in EZ implementation is to remove (current and future) 
barriers to progress by achieving consistent availability of land 
for development to enable the best opportunities to be realised 
where a deal is in the commercial and academic interests of the 
University.
4.1 Academic space (teaching and learning) 
A Learning and Teaching Space Strategy was approved in 2014 to 
build capacity within the teaching space provision by maximising 
the quality, flexibility, utilisation and operational support of all 
teaching space to ensure that the ideal number, size, location and 
layout fulfils all the University’s learning and teaching needs to 
enhance the ‘student experience’. 
The objectives included:
• Optimum quality and geographical stock of teaching space 
through the creation of 2 main teaching ‘hubs’ on Central and 
West Park;
• Encouragement of students to learn by conversation not 
isolation;
• Appropriate and future proofed provision of learning and 
support technologies that are intuitive and consistent across all 
teaching space;
• Appropriate environments with diversity of design and layout to 
support blended and informal learning
Learning and teaching activities have been consolidated into key 
locations on Central and West Parks. There remains a number of 
opportunities to improve the quality of teaching spaces including 
Matthew Arnold, John Cooper, John Pickford and Edward 
Barnsley. These should be removed / replaced and re-purposed. 
There is an allowance in the capital framework for a rolling 
programme of pool space refurbishments that will focus upon 
maintaining functional suitability and increase quality wellbeing 
and inclusivity. Governance for this work is channelled through 
the Learning Environment Innovation Group chaired by the PVC(T). 4.0 Future requirements
Student surveys and qualitative data from the NSS have identified 
the key criteria to effectively support the learning experience as:
• Space for collaboration
• Natural light
• Adequate provision of power and data
• Comfort, inclusivity and wellbeing
 
These criteria have been incorporated into an approved learning 
and teaching space design guidelines for use in all new 
developments and refurbishments.
It is important to retain a variety of teaching room styles to suit 
the preferences for both delivery and learning. If student numbers 
increase, facilities must respond through the creation of agile 
and flexible infrastructure. The definition of ‘flexible’ should 
be defined at the start of the design process for each proposed 
project. There is the option to extend the teaching day and further 
utilise the building assets. Teaching delivery will continue evolve 
to align with technology which is supported through the Digital 
Strategy.
Students value spaces for independent study both within the 
school as a base and within ‘neutral buildings.’ In particular, 
they want increased capacity in the library with longer opening 
hours and more communal study spaces & IT hubs. The 
Digital Strategy for Learning and Teaching has examined the 
provision of IT Labs across the campus. The IT Lab Review has 
identified the requirement of a ‘Superlab’ to provide a holistic 
space incorporating appropriate hardware, software, support, 
appropriate amenities and social engagement. These criteria 
have been included in an IT Lab design guidelines document for 
use in all new developments and refurbishments. Virtualisation of 
software is being progressed to aid flexible and agile learning to 
support the physical environment.
4.2 Research space 
The immediate priority for the research agenda is to create 
single and family accommodation for postgraduate research 
students, academic visitors and newly appointed staff in order 
to attract the most talented people to the University. This will 
be on a commercial basis and will form part of the residential 
accommodation strategy. Proposed projects which could be 
externally funded include:
• Rehabilitative Sciences Research and Innovation Centre
• Centre for Advanced Automotive Research and Simulation
• Centre for Arctic Studies
•  Low carbon technology demonstrator within the LUSEP 
development.
In total these projects could have a value in the region of £40m 
and require a 10% university funding of c£4m.Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
4.0 Future Requirements
21Figure 7: LUSEP growth potential 4.3 Loughborough Science & Enterprise Park 
Requirements 
LUSEP is currently home to over 2,000 staff and tenants. 
Continued development is a key part of the University Strategy to 
build upon partnerships with commerce, industry and national 
research facilities. There is a science park area allocated in the 
Charnwood Borough Council core strategy. The University land 
identified for phase 3 of the LUSEP development is within this 
zone along with adjacent land owned by several other parties. The 
route to development of road and services infrastructure to serve 
this land is not clear due to competing interest of all parties. The 
table in Figure 7 highlights the significant growth potential that 
exists on LUSEP with 85% of the space on phase 3 and 100% on 
phase 4 available for future development.
LUSEP development should seek to gain maximum benefit 
from the external funding by being cohesive with the LLEP EZ 
Implementation Plan that LU has helped develop. The goal is 
to place LU in a dominant position to ensure that it has control 
over the whole estate and has the freedom to implement an agile 
masterplan for the development of the LUSEP sites. 
 
The rate of growth of the Park will be organic and opportunistic as 
external investment from tenants and development organisations 
becomes available. Letting land on a long lease basis to secure 
investment from tenants will depend upon the land availability 
for longer term future use by the University. Development will 
be limited by the availability of power until additional electrical 
infrastructure is available from either Western Power or a 
different provider of green energy.
The long-term plan is to consolidate much as of the University 
activity on LUSEP, making more commercial space available 
for rental income. A recent review has culminated in 1,500sq.m 
identified for relocation. The short-term ambitions would provide 
growth of space for the innovation centre and an additional block 
of accommodation for SportPark. Medium and longer-term 
aims are to achieve security of power for future development of 
facilities to support partnerships. A further option to consider for 
the land could be the development of major sport facilities that 
may include facilities of national significance.4.4 Sports Development Centre 
Loughborough is the premier University for sport, with an 
outstanding record of achievement in performance at every level 
and in sport’s underpinning academic disciplines of exercise and 
health sciences.
The campus has the UK’s largest concentration of world-class 
training facilities and support services across a wide range of 
sports, including an indoor athletics centre, outdoor stadium and 
a 50m swimming pool. Bases for a number of sports are located 
on campus, including national performance centres for athletics
and cricket.
Recreational sport is equally important and there is a popular 
programme of opportunities for sports enthusiasts of all levels 
and abilities. The University has the largest intramural hall 
sport programme for those students who enjoy being part of a 
team with an element of competition. The University’s sporting 
excellence is crucially underpinned by internationally renowned 
teaching and research in sports science, engineering and 
technology.
SDC has a sports capital framework that sets out ambitions in 
three categories:
• Replacements funded through the LTM programme to deliver 
artificial replacements such as change of EHB to a 2nd 
waterbase surface, track and sports hall replacements and 
upgrading of changing and storage spaces and reception 
facilities.
• Enhancements to improve the capability of current facilities 
include: Performance Exercise Centre (PEC) improvements to 
increase capacity within Powerbase; creating an SDC hub for 
staff; Sir David Wallace – upgrade facility to deliver to current 
needs; Holywell pitch 4 and stadium enhancement; increase 
meeting / seminar space and provide additional sporting facility 
including refurbishment of the Paula Radcliffe pavilion building 
and potential relocation of gymnastics facility.
• Game Changers are defined as projects that develop a 
step change to creates a unique environment that ensures 
Loughborough remains at the forefront of university sport and 
grow the reputation global. Major investment is planned for 
the development of new squash facilities and an enlarged LTA 
Phase
1
2b
4
*Possible grow-on building adjacent to ATIC **Gross development parcels: excludes estate infrastructure and green space etc.  
***Nemaura Pharma and Project X requirementsStatus
Developed
Outline 
planning
Approval to 
purchaseSize (Gross) 
hectares
15.1
7.2
42% used inc. 
infrastructure% plannedBalance 
hectaresComments
95
47
00
11*
00.75
3.0
42Limited opportunities for in-fill  
e.g.. reuse of contractors car park
Council approval to purchase2a
3Developed
Planning 
application4.8
26.13**95
05
15***0
22.4Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
4.0 Future Requirements
22centre. SDC have ambitions for a new Sport Pavilion on East 
Park, a 25m swimming pool, a 7,000-seater arena, a sports 
pavilion and indoor football and rugby facility. These are not 
currently funded and would be beyond the scope of the capital 
framework.
4.5 Student requirements
The planned redevelopment of the Student Union Building by 
2024 must provide for students needs now and into the future. 
The location adjacent to the existing LSU Building will allow for 
continuity of SU operations during construction and will ultimately 
provide a welcoming pedestrian connection to the town. The brief 
is currently under development and will consider the inclusion of 
a variety of student services currently located elsewhere. 
4.6 Future IT infrastructure requirements
The planned Network 2020 project will provide a next generation 
(Software Defined) network for the forthcoming eight to ten years. 
This will provide the foundation of the digital campus of the future 
and providing the opportunity to turn the University into a living 
laboratory supporting global challenges in: energy, changing 
environments, and infrastructure.
Wireless network technology is a rapidly developing area, 2023 
is predicted as a tipping point where some locations in the estate 
can be deployed as wireless only areas. Wired networking will 
still be required to connect the data intensive users, the actual 
wireless access points and other devices like printers, BMS, etc.
Ubiquity, Agility, and Capacity:
• Martini networking (Any time, any place, anywhere) will be an 
expectation for data-driven everything;
• Increased recognition of the importance of video;
• IT should be considered at the design phase of projects and 
should integrate seamlessly with the built environment (not an 
afterthought);
• Increasing cellular technology in 5G and beyond will require an 
increased density of mobile masts, and may require allocation 
of space on the estate;
• Ensure that copper and fibre network cabling is included in the 
building condition survey;
• Increase flexibility of buildings through dense wireless 
deployments when technology matures.Resilience and Security:
• To ensure two resilient fibre connections to each building 
through two diverse duct routes;
• To use a next generation network to automatically detect and 
mitigate threats to service availability;
• To use opportunities to migrate data and services into cloud 
services in a response to changes in the estate and increases in 
energy costs;
• Ensuring a joint IT and FM infrastructure business continuity 
plan is regularly reviewed and tested;
• Continuing investment in infrastructure and robust project 
management capability.
4.7 Future Digital campus
Looking to the future, the digital campus will support the 
University ‘Digital Strategy for Learning and Teaching’ where 
students of the future will benefit from the same disruptive 
technology that has transformed our daily lives using platforms 
like: Uber, Netflix, and Bitcoin.
A next generation network facilitates the connection and 
integration of intelligent building technology. This requires well 
integrated, well managed, and highly functional information 
systems underpinning the estate, improving the campus 
experience and driving cost optimisation: 
• Smart energy control of telephones, laptop chargers, and 
any connected appliances in response to building occupancy, 
timetables, control of energy demand, and time of day related 
tariffs;
• Smart maintenance can provide cleaning rotas specific to 
building use, and generate just in time Planned Preventative 
Maintenance requests;
• Smart lighting can replace traditional 240v lighting circuits in 
buildings with network connected LEDs;
• Smart reporting of room occupancy with timetable integration 
and associated environment controls;
• Smart alerting and tailored support for building occupants in an 
emergency situation.
The future vision for intelligent buildings will require the control 
of cyber security risks. The next generation network is critical to 
implement mitigations including micro segmentation rules that 
control access across the network and estate depending who you 
are, what you are, and where you are.Figure 8: Sports capital framework 2018-2023
Sports capital framework 2018-2023
Game Changers Enhancements Replacements (LTM)
 
Arena (7000) 
Swimming Pool (25m)
Tennis and Squash development 
Sports Pavilion 
HFC upgrade 
Powerbase commercial 
Holywell artificial 
Holywell stadium 
HiPac adaptions 
Artificial tender 
Waterbased pitch 
PEC pitch 
Badminton Centre 
Holywell American Football 
EHB sand-dressed 
Rugby artificialLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
4.0 Future Requirements
234.8 Generation Z 
The Association of University Director of Estates (AUDE) produced 
a report looking at how universities need to develop to meet the 
needs of Generation Z.
This challenges the historic higher education learning process 
in a world that has drastically changed from when it began. To 
remain successful, universities must understand how to teach the 
next generation of students. The report aims to understand what 
today’s 10-year old’s will want from university and how the sector 
caters for this.
Within UK higher education the term ‘student experience’ has 
become ubiquitous and embedded within discussions at every 
level. Following the 2012 decision to increase student fees in 
England, there has been a shift to a more demanding culture 
among students as they bear the increased burden for the cost 
of tuition. Universities are confronted with a new generation 
of students who, with legitimacy, are stating, ‘I expect a better 
quality university experience.’ This is a reasonable request as 
students positively challenge the status quo as both consumers 
and partners in their education.
Today’s 10-year olds are ‘digitally dependent’, meaning they were 
born into a world surrounded by advanced technology, their entire childhood will have been shaped by technology and the internet. 
Generation Z will have higher expectations for their university 
experience and this imbalance between generations will place a 
greater demand on the sector.
Over 77 per cent of students rate their learning experience 
as better in innovative, new spaces. Advances in artificial 
intelligence, internet connectivity and augmented and 
virtual reality are due to transform estates into immersive 
learning spaces. Universities will need to upgrade their digital 
infrastructure to cater for this.
The report identified eight key themes estate professionals should 
consider to effectively address the challenges of educating today’s 
10-year old’s. 
• Prepare for the changing demographic of students
• Ensure that technology and technology-based learning 
approaches are suitable for future students
• Adapt the physical space
• Explore innovative partnerships with organisations
• Utilise the vast potential to gather and analyse data
• Co-locate with corporations, markets and new clusters of 
business
• Start investigating models of smart buildings
• Blur boundaries between campus and non-campus
Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
4.0 Future Requirements
245.0 Estates Master Plan 2020-2040
Since 2008 the University has invested £350m in the estate. Assuming the annual capital expenditure continues at £30m per annum, 
a further £630m could be invested in the estate over the period covered by this Strategy to 2040. 
The project approval process for major capital building projects should consider: 
• A strategic categorisation of capital projects, to ensure alignment with the University strategy, as well as operational needs.
• A formalised ‘condition of each building’ for current and future investment considerations and planning purposes.
• A robust whole-life based cost estimation process (3-point estimate) to inform financial planning.
• Clear connection with other university committees and PMB’s to map dependencies e.g. IT and enterprise.
2019-2024
• School of Design and Creative Arts Building, incorporating  
F Building
• A new Students’ Union Building 
• Construct Large Lecture Theatres
• Demolish/refurbish Whitworth Tower
• Re-develop/refurbish Student Village accommodation to 
minimum B grade standard 
• LTA & Squash courts
• London 2.0
• Sport Park Pavilion 4
• Extension to the School of Business and Economics  
(Sir Richard Morris)
• LUSEP infrastructure inc grow on building
• Holywell Building BMS
• Net zero carbon initiatives
• Car Parking infrastructure
• Options to provide Campus Nursery provision
• Public Realm
• Rolling refurbishment of learning and teaching space  
and assets
• Creation of an IT Super-lab on each park
• Rehabilitative Sciences Research and Innovation Centre 
• Demolition of buildings
• Holywell pitch 4
• Stadium synthetic pitch 
• Re-purpose of EHB squash courts
• Improve campus signage/way finding2030-2040
• By 2040 all campus buildings either constructed or 
refurbished prior to 2015 will likely require refurbishment  
or demolition
• For this iteration of the Estates Strategy, it has been assumed 
that the priorities in the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ 
strategy will endure to cover the period 2030-2040
• ABCE have been requested to support the development of 
the capital programme with expert advice on technologies 
and schemes that will help LU to meet its de-carbonisation 
targets
• Research Facilities enabled by external funding
• Further phases of Student Village new-build/refurbishment
• Development of LUSEP phases 3 & 4
• Refurbishment of Hazlerigg & Rutland
• Redevelopment of Central Park: Brockington, Wavy Top, 
Geography and EHB 
• SDC projects not delivered in 2025-30 plus: Indoor rugby 
and football facility, Football stadium enhancements
• Global sports hub 
• Renewal of the Loughborough University London Lease2025-2030
• Re-develop/Refurbish Student Village accommodation to 
minimum B grade standard (includes data cabling)
• Manzoni major refurbishment
• Refurbish David Collett & Towers
• Services infrastructure upgrade and investment in 
sustainable technologies
• Demolish: 3D design, Edward Barnsley, Fine Art, Sir Arnold 
Hall, Campus Services offices
• Pedestrianise main campus, construct large capacity car 
parks on LUSEP, E&W parks and introduce park & ride
• Public realm and landscape improvements
• Brockington extension refurbishment
• T - Building internal refurbishment
• LUSEP Phase 3 & 4 sites – phased development
• Rolling refurbishment of learning and teaching space 
• Research Facilities enabled by external funding
• SDC major projects categorized as game changers, 
enhancements and replacements: 
- Game Changers: 7,000 seat arena, 25m swimming pool, 
sports pavilion/coaching hub inc spectator seating to 
Rugby facility
- Enhancements: Performance centre upgrade - creating 
SDC hub and increased space for Powerbase 
- Replacements: Paula Radcliffe building - track, upgrades 
to changing spaces and reception facilitiesLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
5.0 Estates Master Plan 2020-2040
25Appendices
A Loughborough Estates Strategy Framework
B Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2020-2024
C Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2025-2030
D Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2030-2040
E Estates Capital Framework Major and Minor  
 Projects (June 2019)
F Campus Parks
G East Park Strategy 2020-2040
H New Loughborough Students’ Union
I Central Park Strategy 2020-2040
J Student Village Strategy 2020-2040
K West Park Strategy 2020-2040
L LUSEP Strategy 2020-2040
M Energy Demand
N Pedestrianisation and Sustainable TravelLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
26
A: Loughborough Estates Strategy Framework
Loughborough University Strategic Pillars
Loughborough University Strategic Ambitions
Estates Strategic ThemesTeaching
A distinctive international 
reputation for excellenceAn outstanding university;  
two vibrant campusesOutstanding partnerships 
to deliver social, economic 
and cultural prosperity
The Strategy for the University’s estate is to develop and maintain an attractive, cohesive, sustainable environment  
supporting the provision of two excellent campuses that will be a combination of technology, people and place.
Building for the future
School of ABCE  |   Academic Schools  |   Professional Services  |   LLEP/CBC/EZ  |   CREST  |   Students’ Union  |   Loughborough College1.
Emphasis on adaptability 
and flexibility
Responsive to  
changing needs
Security of power and 
essential infrastructure2.
Exploiting the unique  
green nature of our 
Campus
Renovating and refitting 
our existing buildings  
and infrastructure3.
Deriving maximum value 
from our estate
Flexible and responsive  
to change
Agile and adaptable, Open 
Systems Architectures 5.
An environmentally 
compliant and sustainable 
estate
Trajectory to achieve  
a zero-carbon footprint  
by 2050
Maintaining the  
green campus
Sustainability  
audit of projects4.
Master planning
Integrated and  
connected campusMaking the most  
of the current assetsIntegrated  
campus planning  
and infrastructureAffordable and  
sustainable campusHealthy environment and 
thriving communitiesA life shaping  
student experienceA culture of delivering 
excellence in  
everything we doResearch Enterprise Sport
Delivered through a professional Estates and Facilities Management teamUniversity Estates Strategy
PartnersLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
New 
Loughborough 
Students’ Union√ √ √ √ √ √ √ High 2021- 24Existing facility 
condition£35m
W and S Building 
Refurbishment√ √ √ √ √ High 2016-19 £43m
Demolition √ Medium £0.50 
Tenant led D and 
B (LCC – Access 
bldg)Medium 0
Grow on Building √ √ √ Medium 2021> £6m (£3m LU)
Sport Park 
Pavilion 4√ √ √ High 2021> £5.5m (£nil LU)
Extension to 
School of 
Business and 
Economics (Sir 
Richard Morris)√ √ √ √ √ √ Medium 2021- 24 £5m (nil LU)Capital 
Framework 2019 
to 2024Building for the 
FutureMaking the most 
of our current 
assetsAffordable and 
sustainable 
campusIntegrated campus 
planning and 
InfrastructureHealthy 
environment and 
thriving 
communitiesTeaching Research Enterprise Sport Priority programme RiskStrategic themes Strategic pillars Project Criteria
2022 - 24Structural 
adequacy check£30m √ √ √ √ √ √ √Capital 
Framework 
AllocationStudent & Staff 
experience
2019 -20 £2.3m
LTA and Squash 
Academy√ √ HighLarge Lecture 
theatres√
High 20219-20 £4.3m √ √
£15m (£2m LU) Medium
Projects X, Y & Z √√ RRR √
√25m swimming 
pool√ √NCARRS Lab √Key Project with existing capital framework allocation Projects with Zero capital framework allocation Estate Strategy Planning Framework 2020 to 2024 
Whitworth Tower
Medium LLEP/EZ √
Nil
24/7 Library 
Learning Zone √√ √
Nil
√
NilPVC/SDC potential projects not listed on capital frameworkLondon 2.0 √
√Nil
7,000 seat arena √Increased scope 
and costNew Arts 
Development 
Building
£2.5m
√√ √ 2020-21
2022-23 £4.5m √ √ High√ High
27B: Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2020-2024Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
Refurbish 
Manzoni ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Medium Major Low Nil
David Collett - 
Refurbish✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Low
Telford - 
Redevelop✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Faraday - 
Redevelop✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
25m Swimming 
Pool✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Arena (7k seat) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Sports pavilion / 
coaching hub✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Performance 
centre 
upgrade/SDC hub✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Campus library - 
refurbish✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Low Nil
Upgrade IT 
infrstructure✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Public realm. And 
pedestrian links to 
student village✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Medium Major Low Nil
Grade II listed 
building in FM 
Yard - refurbish✓ Medium Minor High Nil
T-Building - 
Refurbishment✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Increased energy 
infrastructure to 
LUSEP✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High NilRutherford - 
RedevelopMediumTowers - 
Refurbish/replace
Nil Medium MajorMatthew Arnold / 
John Cooper 
Refurbish / 
replace✓ ✓ ✓
Major High Nil
✓ ✓Capital 
Framework 
AllocationStudent & Staff 
experienceKey Project with existing capital framework allocation Projects with Zero capital framework allocation Estate Strategy Planning Framework 2025 to 2030 
Wavytop 
Replacement✓ High Major High Nil ✓Research Enterprise
Major Medium Nil ✓ ✓ MediumEHB - 
Refurbishment✓ ✓ ✓ ✓✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
✓ ✓ ✓✓ ✓Capital 
Framework 2025 
to 2030Building for the 
FutureMaking the most 
of our current 
assetsAffordable and 
sustainable 
campusIntegrated campus 
planning and 
InfrastructureHealthy 
environment and 
thriving 
communitiesTeaching
Cayley - 
RedevelopSport Priority Programme RiskStrategic themes Strategic pillars Project Criteria
✓ HighMajor Medium Nil Medium
High Major High Nil ✓
28
C: Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2025-2030Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
Major investments de-
carbonisation projects and 
use of all resources✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Cost of keeping technology 
current for connectivity and 
partnerships ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Development of LUSEP and 
partnerships✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Major refurbishment or 
replacement of all sports 
buildings and facilities and 
reduction in space✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Refurbishment programme 
for all academic buildings not 
refurbished over the past 25 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Campus pedestrianisation 
projects and new transport 
technology✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Low Nil
Public Realm and landscape 
improvements✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Low Nil
Centre for Artic Studies ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Low Cardon demonstrator ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
LUSEP Infrastructure 
Development✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major High Nil
Indoor rugby and football 
facility✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Football stadium 
enhancements✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
Sports Pavilion ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
25m swimming pool ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium Nil
7000 seat arena ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ High Major Medium NilPotential projects identified by PVC’s and SDC (carried over from 2030)Capital 
Framework 
AllocationStudent & Staff 
experienceKey Project with existing capital framework allocation Projects with Zero capital framework allocation Estate Strategy Panning Framework 2030 to 2040 
Research EnterpriseCapital Framework 2030 to 
2040Building for the 
FutureMaking the most 
of our current 
assetsAffordable and 
sustainable 
campusIntegrated campus 
planning and 
InfrastructureHealthy 
environment and 
thriving 
communitiesTeaching
A University academic strategy vision to 2040 is required to inform the requirements of the estate to support strategic and operational activities. There are no new major project committed for the period and those suggest are based on estates needs only since there is no 
academic strategy or projects other than the potential for the very speculative PVC (E) projects and the ‘game changer’ potential projects of SDC. We only know that will have an aging estate with constant need for maintenance.  Assuming a IRV of £1.5bn. A 2% allowance 
for refurbishment would equate to the £30m total annual capital budget.  RICS recommend a combination of new build and refurbishment of 4 to 5% of IRV invested annually.  The size of the campus will have to reduce.Sport Priority Programme RiskStrategic themes Strategic pillars Project Criteria
29D: Estates Strategy Planning Framework 2030-2040Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
30
E: Estates Capital Framework Major and Minor Projects (June 2019)
Estate Capital Framework
Major capital projects with financial allocation  
@ Sept 2019Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
SNELLS    NOOK    LANESNELLS NOOK LANESNELLS NOOK LANE
                         A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD
EHB Sports TurfWater Based Hockey Pitch
Haslegrave Cricket GroundPaula Radcliffe
Athletics Stadium
Ball Park & 
ECB Nets
1st XV Rugby PitchPEC Sports Turf
Brockington Pitches 
& Cricket Nets
Towers Rugby Pitch
Tennis Courts
Outdoor Courts
Paddock Park
and Run Trails
Loughborough University
StadiumRubber CrumbHolywell 1 Pitch 
Holywell 2 Pitch 
Steve Backley National
Throws Centre (Holywell 3) 
Holywell 4 Football Pitch
Holywell 5 Football Pitch
Holywell 6 Football Pitch
Holywell 7 Football PitchBeach ParkGames Park
1
2 34
5
68
71112
141319
1618
17232221
24
1527
2629
28
43
4530
433232
42
3131
413833
49 4834
39
37
468081
7978
77828485
86
76
75 74
706972
7164
62
6153
54
55565760A6768
59
5958
5866
6573
108115
116
117107
104103102
106105 114113
112100969798
99959491939292125125
125
123
118119
120121
34
3383
63
10
10B41
9
Holywell
Wood
Hurst 
Farm
Jamson’s
PlantationBurleigh Brook
Longcliffe Golf ClubGarendon
Park
Shepard’s
HillShortcliff Brook
10A1A60B
11A35
36
9A40
20
7
                                                               
   A512        N
EW
 ASHB
Y ROAD    
 
 
 
  A512        N
EW
 ASHBY ROAD
                         A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROADA512   ASHBY ROAD  A6004 EPINAL WAY                      A6004 EPINAL WAY       A6004 EPINAL WAY                                                                                                  A6004 EPINAL 
M1
M1JUNCTION
23To Forest Court 132
The Holt 133To Frederick Street 131
A60 NottsA6 Derby
M1, J23To Nottingham
To Leicester
West entranceEast entrance
West ParkVillage ParkCentral Park
East Park
LUSEP
Published under License by Location Maps Limited PU100029016 all rights reserved. 0800 7314 084  www.locationmaps.comA6 Derb y
A60 Notts
M1, J23
31For estates planning purposes the campus is divided into five zones:
East Park, Central Park, Student Village Park, West Park and LUSEPF: Campus ParksLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
Future Capital Projects 2019 to 2024
• Construction of new Students’ Union Building
• Demolish: John Hardie, John Clements and possibly John 
Cooper to create public realm/future developments
• Provide standby power
• Provide external power and storage on Shirley Pearce Square 
Future Capital Projects to 2031 to 2040
• Power generation – solar/PV
• Replacement or major refurbishment of Performance 
Education CentreFuture Capital Projects to 2025 to 2030
• Refurbish/Replace Towers and Butler Court student 
accommodation
• Development of land on other side of Epinal Way
• Construction of multi-storey car park with solar generated 
electric charging and vehicle to grid(V2G) storage
• Refurbish/replace Matthew Arnold and possibly John Cooper 
• New 25m swimming pool 
• Sports pavilion/Coaching hub inc spectator seating for Rugby
LSU to be demolished 
and redeveloped  
(2021-2024)
John Hardie to be 
demolished in 202025m swimming pool
John Clements used 
for temporary space 
or demolished for 
development site
John Cooper used 
for temporary space 
or demolished for 
development site
Art buildings dispose 
or redevelop as 
multi-storey car park 
with bridge to main 
campusSports pavilion/
Coaching hub inc 
spectator seating for 
Rugby
Refurbish Towers  
and Butler Court
New LTA academy  
and Squash 2020Projects with potential 
capital framework 
allocationsProjects have no capital  
framework allocations
32
G: East Park Strategy 2020-2040Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
The new LSU will be set back from 
existing mature trees framing  
views from the Bastard Gates.Create views to the  
administrative and student hubsProposed vista and paths create  
links between LU and town.
The task is to create a new Student Union Building that is fit for a 21st century Student Union of the present day that is adaptable and flexible to accommodate the yet  
unknown needs into the future. The working brief is for the new building to be the gateway to the student experience on campus; a campus living room.  
An indicative allocation of £5m (including £5m from philanthropic donations) has been allocated for the project.
33H: New Loughborough Students’ UnionLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
Refurbish Hazlerigg 
& Rutland and reduce 
energy/carbon 
footprint
Manzoni - refurbish
Sir Arnold Hall - 
demolish
Wavytop - demolish 
and replace with new 
building in 2030-2040 Future Capital Projects 2019 to 2024
• Large lecture theatres
• New School of Design and Creative Arts
• Improved Public Realm linking to new Students’ Union
• Pedestrianisation of area around Hazlerigg, Rutland and  
new Students’ Union
• Demolish Sir Arnold Hall
• Provide standby power
• Provide charging points for Electric Vehicles
Future Capital Projects to 2025 to 2030
• Wavytop replacement
• EHB refurbishment
• Manzoni refurbishment
• Demolish Campus Living & GP Surgery and relocate services
• Refurbish sports pitches
• Improved Public Realm and pedestrian/cycle links  
to student village 
• Refurbish Grade II listed building in E&FM yard
Future Capital Projects to 2031 to 2040
• Replace CHP with alternative power generation and  
storage facility
• Real investment required for de-carbonisation and security  
of power plus other services
Projects with potential 
capital framework 
allocationsProjects have no capital  
framework allocationsEHB- new large 
lecture theatres and 
repurposed squash 
courts
G. Oldham - demolish 
as part of new Arts 
developmentG Block - refurbished 
as parts of Arts 
development
F Building - major 
refurbishment and 
new build to create 
new Arts development Extension to the 
School of Business 
and Economics
34
I: Central Park Strategy 2020-2040Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
35J: Student Village Strategy 2020-2040
Future Capital Projects 2020 to 2024
• Requirement to balance maintenance of student bedroom numbers and associated income for LU with challenge  
of not having the capital to improve the standard of LU accommodation to meet student expectations.
• Provision of postgraduate accommodation 
• Phases 1-3 of a 7-phase programme to redevelop the Student Village:
• Phase 1: Upgrade the services & IT Infrastructure to improve resilience and improve Public Realm and landscaping.
• Phase 2: Demolish/Refurbish Whitworth Tower and relocate services incl 67 student bedrooms.
• Phase 3: Redevelop Cayley and create an Accommodation Services hub, retail facility and medical centre. Future Capital Projects to 2025 to 2030
• Phase 4 - Redevelop Rutherford.
• Phase 5 – Redevelop Royce.
Future Capital Projects to 2030 to 2040
• Phase 6 – Redevelop Telford.
• Phase 7– Redevelop Faraday.
UPP
ROYCECAYLEYCLAUDIA PARSONS
RUTHERFORD
TELFORDFARADAYLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
W & S Building 
- refurbished  
investment in STEM 
for research and 
teaching.
Complete Nov 19
Stadium -  
synthetic pitch Refurbish  
David Collett
Pitch no 4 -  
synthetic surface
Future Capital Projects 2019 to 2024
• Refurbish David Collett accommodation
• Provide Uninterrupted Powers Supply (UPS) and  
standby power 
• Convert ‘Penthouse’ into student IT and self-study/learning 
space 
• Reconfigure West Park access to accommodate LUSEP  
phase 3 and 4 development and prevent congestion
Future Capital Projects to 2025 to 2030
• Refurbish T Building
Future Capital Projects to 2031 to 2040
• Potential relocation onto LUSEP of Imago conference  
and hotel facilities
• Replace CHP with alternative power generation and  
storage facility
• Refurbish/demolish John Pickford/Sir Frank Gibb labs
• Refurbish Stewart Miller 
• Refurbishment of West Park Teaching Hub
Projects with potential 
capital framework 
allocationsProjects have no capital  
framework allocationsT Building - essential 
refurbishment to 
fabric and services
36
K: West Park Strategy 2020-2040Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
Phase
1
2b
4
*Possible grow-on building adjacent to ATIC **Gross development parcels: excludes estate infrastructure and green space etc.  
***Nemaura Pharma and Project X requirementsStatus
Developed
Outline 
planning
Approval to 
purchaseSize (Gross) 
hectares
15.1
7.2
42% used inc. 
infrastructure% plannedBalance 
hectaresComments
95
47
00
11*
00.75
3.0
42Limited opportunities for in-fill  
e.g.. reuse of contractors car park
Council approval to purchase2a
3Developed
Planning 
application4.8
26.13**95
05
15***0
22.4
37
Future Capital Projects 2019 to 2024
• Enterprise Office to publish options for  
25 year plan.
• Development should seek to gain maximum 
benefit from external funding by being cohesive 
with the LLEP EZ Implementation Plan.
• Goal is to place LU in a dominant position to 
ensure that it has control over the whole estate 
and freedom to implement an agile masterplan 
for the development of the LUSEP sites.  
• Migration of LU academic Schools to main 
campus (with the exception of some research 
facilities) to release space for rental.
• Planning for PVC (R): speculative projects of 
NCAARS, Centre for Arctic studies, Low Carbon 
Technology demonstrator.
• Planning for PVC (E): priority for grow on space, 
Sport Park pavilion 4, infrastructure and power,. 
Other potential large projects of Nemaura 
Pharma, Project X, global sports hub sport 
cluster. 
• EZ Infrastructure to open-up 27 hectares of 
space in Phase 3 creating 2,850 jobs.
• New floorspace at LUSEP EZ (two pre-lets and 
move-on space).
Future Capital Projects to 2025 to 2030
• 17,000 sq m of additional space in three projects 
delivering up to 1,000 jobs.
• Creation of 3,500 m2 of move on space at LUSEP 
EZ Phase 2.
• Increased Power infrastructure to cover 
additional phases of LUSEP EZ.
• Development of International Sports Hub 
focussed on sports technology and advanced 
manufacturing.
Future Capital Projects to 2031 to 2040
• Consideration for major sporting facilities 
envisioned  
by SDC.
• Potential revenue projects to support extended 
marketing and promotion and the development 
of enhanced business start-up and growth 
support.LUSEP in numbersL: LUSEP Strategy 2020-2040Loughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
SNELLS    NOOK    LANESNELLS NOOK LANESNELLS NOOK LANE
                         A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD
EHB Sports TurfWater Based Hockey Pitch
Haslegrave Cricket GroundPaula Radcliffe
Athletics Stadium
Ball Park & 
ECB Nets
1st XV Rugby PitchPEC Sports Turf
Brockington Pitches 
& Cricket Nets
Towers Rugby Pitch
Tennis Courts
Outdoor Courts
Paddock Park
and Run Trails
Loughborough University
StadiumRubber CrumbHolywell 1 Pitch 
Holywell 2 Pitch 
Steve Backley National
Throws Centre (Holywell 3) 
Holywell 4 Football Pitch
Holywell 5 Football Pitch
Holywell 6 Football Pitch
Holywell 7 Football PitchBeach ParkGames Park
1
2 34
5
68
71112
141319
1618
17232221
24
1527
2629
28
43
4530
433232
42
3131
413833
49 4834
39
37
468081
7978
77828485
86
76
75 74
706972
7164
62
6153
54
55565760A6768
59
5958
5866
6573
108115
116
117107
104103102
106105 114113
112100969798
99959491939292125125
125
123
118119
120121
34
3383
63
10
10B41
9
Holywell
Wood
Hurst 
Farm
Jamson’s
PlantationBurleigh Brook
Longcliffe Golf ClubGarendon
Park
Shepard’s
HillShortcliff Brook
10A1A60B
11A35
36
9A40
20
7
                                                               
   A512        N
EW
 ASHB
Y ROAD    
 
 
 
  A512        N
EW
 ASHBY ROAD
                         A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROADA512   ASHBY ROAD  A6004 EPINAL WAY                      A6004 EPINAL WAY       A6004 EPINAL WAY                                                                                                  A6004 EPINAL 
M1
M1JUNCTION
23To Forest Court 132
The Holt 133To Frederick Street 131
A60 NottsA6 Derby
M1, J23To Nottingham
To Leicester
Holywell Park
Supply Capacity: 4400 kVA
Maximum Demand: 4375 KVA
Spare Capacity: 25kVALUSEP - Phase 1 & 2
Supply Capacity: 2000 kVA
Projected MD: 292 kVA
Spare Capacity: 1708 kVA Sir Richard Morris
Supply Capacity: 5000 kVA
Projected MD: 4740 kVA
Spare Capacity: 260 kVA 
Towers
Supply Capacity: 2000 kVA
Maximum Demand: 1499kVA
Spare Capacity: 501 kVA
West entranceEast entrance
West ParkVillage ParkCentral Park
East Park
LUSEP
Published under License by Location Maps Limited PU100029016 all rights reserved. 0800 7314 084  www.locationmaps.comA6 Derb y
A60 Notts
M1, J23Electrical Demand – Projected Electrical Demands to 2024
38
M: Energy DemandLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
39
SNELLS    NOOK    LANESNELLS NOOK LANESNELLS NOOK LANE
                        A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD
EHB Spor ts TurfWater Based Hocke y Pitch
Haslegrav e Cricket GroundPaula Radcliffe
Athletics Stadium
Ball Pa rk & 
ECB Nets
1st XV Rugby PitchPEC Spor ts Turf
Brockington Pitches 
& Cricket Nets
Towers Rugby Pitch
Tennis Cour ts
Outdoor Court s
Paddock Pa rk
and Run Trails
Loughborough Univ ersity
StadiumRubber Cr umbHolyw ell 1 Pitch 
Holyw ell 2 Pitch  
Steve Backley National
Throws Centre (Holywell 3) 
Holywell 4 Football Pitch
Holywell 5 Football Pitch
Holywell 6 Football Pitch
Holywell 7 Football PitchBeach ParkGames Pa rk
20
7                  
     
                
       
      
          
    A512    
    
NEW
 AS
HBY
 ROAD
    
  
 
  A512   
     NEW
 ASH
BY
 ROAD
                        A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROAD 
 
 
 
                                           A512        ASHBY ROADA512 
  ASHB
Y ROAD  A6004 EPINAL WAY                      A6004 EPINAL WAY       A6004 EPINAL WAY                                                                                                  A6004 EPINAL 
M1
M1JUNCTION
23To Forest Court 13 2
The Holt 133To Frederick Str eet 131
A60 NottsA6 Derb y
M1, J23To Nottingha m
To Leicester
Holywell Park
Car Park - Priority for 
technology demonstratorsPedestrian and  
cycle zone
West entranceEast entrance
West ParkVillage ParkCentral Park
East Park
LUSEP
Published under License by Location Maps Limited PU100029016 all rights reserved. 0800 7314 084  www.locationmaps.comA6 Derb y
A60 Notts
M1, J23Park and Ride (West)
Park and Ride (East)Pedestrianisation of the West, Central and Village parks and construction of new  
multi-storey car parks on LUSEP and East Park to create a green central spine to 
generate green public spaces.  
New multi-storey car parks (500)
Quality public realm spaceRestricted vehicular routes
Green pedestrian spineMain vehicular routes
N: Pedestrianisation and Sustainable TravelLoughborough University Estates Strategy 2020-2040 
Appendices
77165/C&PS/Jan2020
