Program Name
Enhancing Sustainability of Global Society Through Jitsugaku (Science)
Keio's Aspirations for the Top Global University Project
Keio University will continue to educate the next generation of leaders who will play active roles on the world stage. Based 
on the spirit of jitsugaku (science), an educational philo sophy espoused by Keio founder Yukichi Fukuzawa, we will make 
positive contributions to world development as an institution of higher education th at can propose innovative social systems to  
the world. By achieving this, Ke io University will gain  recognition as a top global research  university  among the world’s top 
100 in the world university rankings. 
Summary
The Top Global University Project at Keio integrates educati on and research in the humanities and sciences to enhance the 
sustainability of global society through jitsugaku (science). Keio aims to strengthe n ties with international academic 
communities and industry while making positive c ontributions to the world. In this way, we hope to bolster Keio University’s 
international reputation by building on our existing strengths and achievements. Specifically, under the integrative theme of
Sustainable Development of a Super Mature  Society, Keio has established three global initiatives: Longevity, Creativity, and 
Security.
The Headquarters for the Top Global Univers ity Project is currently consolidating Un iversity resources in each initiative to 
better support world-class educa tion and research across the di sciplines. Within each  initiative, Keio w ill greatly improve its  
human resources management and educational systems; improveme nts include changes to the faculty salary policy, new cross 
appointment and tenure track positions, expa nded degree programs offered in English, and a new visiting research co-advisor 
scheme for doctoral candidates. The University hopes that th ese human resources and academic  policies will help increase 
international jointly authored re search and the number of academic papers written in English, which in turn will lead to more
citations and better representation of Keio's research abroad. The University will revamp its research information infrastructure in order to share its research findings with the world. This will enhance the University’s international presenc e 
and reputation for education and research, which are measured by the number of citations and worldwide reputation surveys.
In order to reinforce university governan ce and presidential leadership , Keio will establish the Global Advisory Council as 
well as a discretionary fund that the pres ident can use to distribute swiftly and flexibly in order to accelerate reform. 
Presidential leadership will promote new initiatives in Keio Un iversity’s endeavors to become a world-leading research 
university.
Outline of the Top Global University Pr oject (Type A)  at Keio University
1. Proposal for TGUP at Keio University

Summary of 10-Year Plan
○Establishment of Keio's Global Initiatives
The University will launch th e three initiatives of Longev ity, Security, and Creativity to conduct transnational, 
transdisciplinary education and research to be shared with the world. These three initiatives form the basis of the Top Global 
University Project at Keio University.
○Expansion of Double/Joint Degree Programs
As of 2014, Keio boasted 23 double degree programs with ma ny leading universities around th e world—the most of any 
university in Japan. The number of programs will increase to 35 in ten years’ time.
○Improving Overseas Research Hubs
Keio has plans to expand its overseas research hubs from 3 to  15 in fields spanning the natural and social sciences, 
humanities, and medicine. The University pl ans to use these hubs to promote partne rships for global research and define 
Keio's position as a world-leading research university.
○Increased Employment of Foreign Faculty
The proportion of foreign academic facu lty employed under the annual salary system/cross-appoint ment system and 
Japanese faculty who have either conducte d research or earned a degree at an ins titution overseas will increase to 67.5%, or 
over two-thirds of the total academ ic faculty. The Univers ity will effectively play  to these individuals'  strengths to promote 
organic internationalization of the University's education and research systems.
○Development of Degree Programs Offered in Englis h & Increasing Inbound/Ou tbound Student Exchange
The University will launch the Global Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC) Program, an English curriculum across Keio's 
undergraduate faculties and graduate school s. Each faculty and graduate school will expand upon the common GIC platform 
with its own specialized curriculum to increase the number of c ourses available in English, which will lead to an increase in
the number of degree programs available to international st udents. Combined with newly designed short-term summer 
programs, Keio will greatly incr ease its international student population. Within the next ten years, th e University aims to 
create an environment where all Keio students have internati onal experience of some kind, through short-term and long-term 
study abroad, internships, or otherwise.
○Implementation of Initiative-bas ed Human Resources Management
The University will formalize visiting re search co-advisor appointments, which ha ve been piloted by Keio's All-Round 
Program for Leading Graduate School, making the appointments available to all graduate schools. Moreover, under this 
framework, the University will devise a sy stem within each initia tive that supports and encourages  joint research and jointly 
authored papers with researchers from Ke io's partner institutions overseas. By 2023, foreign researchers will participate in 
doctoral candidates' research across the entire university. 
Additionally, the University w ill establish a tenure track system that empl oys around five foreign faculty members per 
initiative to be the catalysts fo r joint research and jointly authored academic papers. Tenure track candi dates must be highly 
motivated to conduct research and author academic papers.
Defining Characteristics of TGUP at Keio University
○Giving Back Through Educ ation/Research Findings
Under the integrated theme of Sustainable Development of a Super Mature Society, Keio will create three global initiatives: 
Longevity, Creativity, and Security. The Un iversity will consolidate university re sources within each initiative to conduct 
practical, globally-applicable education and research that transcend traditional disciplinary boundaries and integrate the 
natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities. The University will serve as a model of social service and contribution to
the world and gain prominence as a top world-leading research university. The initiatives form a university-wide system for 
research where academic faculty members from Keio’s underg raduate faculties and graduate  schools can engage in both 
basic and applied research.
○Global Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC)
The Global Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC) Program, Keio’s first university-wide English curriculum across the 
undergraduate faculties and graduate school s, will offer general education and sp ecialized courses in English in an 
environment where students of all nationa lities from different faculties and graduate  schools can learn together. Moreover, 
the GIC Program will incorporat e activities from each of Keio’s global initiativ es to foster students' ability to conduct 
research in English and author internationally relevant research.
Policies for International Collaboration
The University will utilize the cross appointment system  and quarter system to invite  foreign researchers and conduct 
international collaborations in research and education in capacities such as visiting research co-advisor. At the same time, Keio University faculty may also go abroad to serve as visiting research co-advisors for graduate st udents conducting 
research under foreign faculty and offer opportunities to advise joint research. Th is system will not only dramatically 
increase the mobility and international cont ributions of Keio's academic faculty, but  will also make it possible to produce a
new generation of academic researchers who are ready to su cceed globally due to prior colla borative research and joint 
authorship. 
Moreover, the University will work closely with its overseas partner institutions, who are some of Keio's most important 
assets, to promote the establishment of overseas research hubs  for the purpose of collaborative research. The University will
leverage its research and technological assets to form ins titutional relationships with universities and industries overseas th at 
promote international collaboration. This signifies a move away from the volatility that researchers may experience when personally organizing joint research to a more stable mechanism that allows the University to provide the organizational 
support necessary to bolster new internati onal developments. In addition to these m easures undertaken by Keio University 
leadership, each undergraduate faculty and gr aduate school is also encouraged to pur sue international collaborations of their
own.
International Initiatives
○Establishment of All-English Global  Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC)
The Global Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC) Center was established in 2014 to 
design the GIC Program, which started in April 2015. Keio’s first university-
wide curriculum conducted in English, the GIC Program is available to students 
across all of Keio's undergraduate faculties and graduate schools and will 
function as a platform that works towards developing courses which allow more students to study and graduate in English. The GIC Program launched with 13 
Core Courses and 172 Research Courses that offer GIC credit.
○A University-wide GPA Standard
Many of Keio's undergraduate faculties and graduate schools already use the grade point average (GPA) scale as 
an evaluation tool for advancement and graduation, academic advisement, scholarships and awards for academic 
excellence, and study abroad. In 2014, th e University decided to formulate an institutional standard  of evaluation to 
be implemented upon consensus among underg raduate faculties and graduate schools.
Governance Reforms
○Appointment of Tenure Track Faculty
As defined by Japan's Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), the “tenure track 
system” is a mechanism that enables young researchers to gain  the experience needed to establish themselves in their 
field during a fixed term of service before obtaining a perm anent tenure position. The resear ch they produce during this 
period is strictly evaluated when considering them as candidates for tenure. While tenure track positions already exist 
within some undergraduate faculties and graduate schools, the University has now established “Regulations for the Top 
Global University Project Tenure Track System” in order to implement a unive rsity-wide tenure track system. As of 
Spring 2015, the University employs 36 tenure track faculty members, surpassing its tenure track target for 2020.
Academic ReformsKeio Research Highlights
The Internet in Asia: Looking Ahead to 20252. Keio's Current Progress Concerning Top Global University Project Initiatives (as of June 2015)
○Platform for Keio Research Released
The Keio Research Highlights website was released as a platform to deliver the latest information about the 
innovative research and revolu tionary findings in the natural and social  sciences and humanities at Keio, thereby 
increasing Keio's interna tional research presence.
Visit the site: http://research-highlights.keio.ac.jp/
○Establishing the Global Advisory Council
In 2014, the University established the Global Advisory Council (GAC), 
which acts as an advisory body to the Keio president, the university's head 
decision-maker. The University hopes to benefit from the expert opinions 
and international standpoints of GAC members, all of whom are presidents 
of distinguished universities overseas.
○Increased Number of Degree Programs Offered in English & Introduction of Third-Party Test Scores on 
Entrance Examinations
The Faculty of Economics has announced the “Programme in  Economics for Alliances, Research and Leadership 
(PEARL),” a brand-new economics program offered entirel y in English. The Faculty of Economics will begin 
accepting applications for the inaugural  September 2016 admission in October 2015.  This program, coupled with the 
Global Interdisciplinary Courses (GIC), will offer students a comprehensive education entirely in English, from general education requirements to areas of specialization.  Designed to foster global economic leaders of tomorrow, 
PEARL equips students with a global perspective and a specialized knowledge of economics. PEARL students who 
qualify also have the opportunity to earn both their bachelor's and master's degree within a five-year period. Selection for the program will be based on overall academic read iness and English ability. A pplicants' overall academic 
readiness will be evaluated using asse ssment tools such as the Internationa l Baccalaureate (IB) and SAT. English 
ability will be assessed using scores from the TOEF L, IELTS, and other approved third-party tests.
Additionally, the GIGA Program, which was launched at Shonan Fujisawa Campus (SFC) in 2011 under the Faculty 
of Environment and Information Studies , will expand to include the Faculty of  Policy Management in September 2015.○Establishment of a Presidential Discretionary Fund
The University has established a discretionary fund for the President to use 
swiftly and flexibly in order to inj ect funding and accelerate reform. This fund 
has made it possible for the University to prioritize and selectively consolidate 
resources on exceptional projects in need of funding. This fund helped bring 
together leaders from the business, academia, and government from throughout 
the Asia-Pacific region for candid discussions concerning key issues for the 
future of the Internet at the Associa tion of Pacific Rim Universities' (APRU) 
Internet Business Offsite: “The Internet in the Asia-Pacific – Looking Ahead to 2025,” which was held from March 10-11, 2015, at Keio University.  
◆Common Performance Indicators for TGUP
○Keio's Global Initiatives
In 2014-2015, the University  launched the three transd isciplinary initiatives of 
Longevity, Security, and Creativity. Ki ck-off symposiums for each initiative 
marked the beginning of advanced edu cation and research within and between 
initiatives. As of June 2015, research cen ters for each initiative have been set up 
within Keio Advanced Research Centers (KARC) with a total of nine initiative-
based research projects currently selected  to receive internal research funding. 
This research will serve as the basis to attract other research projects and obtain 
external research funding to invite exceptional researchers from overseas for joint research. Keio expect s to attain better interna tional visibility by publishing 
high-quality papers jointly authored with international researchers and 
ultimately boost the University ’s international dimension.
Commemorative Events
The history between Keio and Harvard dates back to 1890, when then-President 
of Harvard, Charles Eliot, nominated three professors to head Keio’s first three 
university departments of literature, ec onomics, and law. To celebrate the 125 
years since the first departments were established, a Keio delegation to Harvard 
in March 2015 was made possible with the cooperation of Harvard’s Reischauer 
Institute of Japanese Studies and the Program on U.S.-Japan Relations, the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs.
President Seike met with Harvard Presid ent Drew Faust before giving a lecture 
as part of Keio’s Longevity Initiative, titled “Japan’s Aging Society and the Role 
of Higher Education,” to a large audience which included many researchers and 
students. At the reception that followe d, researchers from both institutions 
discussed opportunities to strengthen the Harvard-Keio relationship through joint 
research and academic exchange. Many Harvard students also showed a keen 
interest in studying in Japan at the information sessions held by Keio staff the 
following day.Keio Creativity Initiative Symposium
President Seike gives a lecture at Harvard○Visiting Research Co-Advisors
The University has developed a new scheme to invite re searchers from abroad under a cross-appointment system as 
visiting research co-advisors to advise  doctoral candidates. During a short-term pilot program in late 2014 and early 
2015, the University invited over thirty vi siting research co-advisors. In a post-p ilot survey that reviewed outcomes of 
advisement, all parties involved—primary advisors, visiti ng research co-advisors, and doctoral candidates—expressed 
a high degree of satisfaction with the scheme. The University hopes to build enduring relationships with visiting 
research co-advisors who will contribute to joint research, joint editorship, and/or joint authorship with Keio's 
academic faculty and doctoral candidates,  thereby helping to raise Keio's in ternational reputation in the future.
○Double Degrees & Joint Degrees
The University added three new double degree programs to bring the total 
number of double degree programs to 26—more than any other university in 
Japan. This surpasses Keio's target for 2016. The three new programs are 
between the following:Open Research Forum
Partnerships with Universities Overseas
In 2014-2015, Keio University leadership played a leadi ng role in strengthening ties with universities overseas by 
instating a pilot cross-appointment sche me for visiting research co-advisors, establishing the Global Advisory Council 
(GAC), and developing ne w overseas research hubs. Keio’s faculties and gr aduate schools have also  driven efforts to 
strengthen collaboration with universities abroad. One of these programs is the “Joint Project Based Global Learning” 
between Master's students at Keio Media Design (KMD) and the Stanford University’s Graduate Schools of 
Engineering and Education. This program gives students the opportunity to engage in a short-term collaborative project 
related to the application of new media and involves two-week stays at both Stanford University and KMD. Faculty 
members from each participating graduate  school are appointed as project advi sors. Though brief in duration, students 
encounter the distinctive educational me thods of each of the graduate schools a nd experience the cultures and lifestyles 
of both the Silicon Valley and Tokyo. The program is intended for students to take their first steps on the road to global 
citizenship.
○ Research Growth
In 2014-2015, Keio's research greatly exceed ed many of its research targets. For 
example, the total amount of commissioned research grew 23% to 64 billion yen, 
and the total number of domestic/foreign patents grew 53% to 988. The University 
also established a hub for collaborative res earch with the U.S.  National Institute 
on Aging, a world leader in aging and longevity research.
・Graduate School of  Economics and Bocconi University; 
・Graduate School of Science and Technology a nd the Free University of Brussels; and  
・Graduate School of Science and Technology  and Université catholique de Louvain. 
Keio continues to promote active collaboration in education and research with universities overseas.
.
○Keio Delegation to Harvard University: Celebrating 125 Years Since the Establishment of the First University 
Departments at Keio◆Keio University's Original Performance Indicators for TGUP
International InitiativesProject-wide Performance Indicators and Target Goals
Establishment and Operation of All-English Global Interd isciplinary Courses (GIC)
The Global Interdisciplinary Courses Program start ed in earnest across undergraduate faculties and graduate schools 
in AY2015-2016. As of May 1, 2016, A to tal of 1,162 students are enrolled in 75 core courses established within the 
GIC Center. This total increases to 8,337 students enrolled in 471 courses when all other GIC courses (international 
center courses, research courses, et c.) are included. We expect even higher enro llment with the incoming class in Fall 
Semester. The GIC Program is Keio’s first university-wi de curriculum conducted almost entirely in English and is 
available to students across all of Ke io’s undergraduate faculties and graduate schools. It functions as a platform for 
English-language courses that allows more  students to graduate entirely in English.
International Student Dormitories
Keio has gradually added international housi ng with the increase in international 
student numbers, and in March 2016 t he university opened the doors to the 
Okurayama Dormitory, the university’s newest housing complex designed with international students in mind. In March 2017,  Hiyoshi International Dormitory*, the 
university’s first attempt at a truly in ternational dormitory, is slated to open. 
Additionally, Keio has plans to open another  international student dormitory at 
Tsunashima Sustainable Smart Town in Yokohama by March 2018.
Academic Reforms
Development of Short-Term Programs
The development of short-term programs is underway to increase the number of 
international students who come to Keio . Thesis@Keio, a program geared towards 
graduate students, began in  2015. Graduate students at the master’s or doctoral level 
who are accepted to the program are allo wed to conduct research at Keio and gain 
access to university resources. They may conduct fieldwork and interviews and receive 
advisement from Keio faculty members for t heir research. This new system provides 
students from other universities direct acce ss to Keio academic faculty in order to 
further their research while Keio benefits by  building an international academic network 
with talented graduate students and early-career  researchers from abroad. Additionally, 
numerous new programs are slotted for Summer 2016 and beyond across many 
different faculties and graduate schools.3D rendering of Hiyoshi International 
Dormitory* (*Na me tentative)
PEARL Applications Begin
The Faculty of Economics began accepting applications for the “Programme in Economics for Alliances, Research and 
Leadership (PEARL),” a brand-new economics program offered entirely in English.  The university has received a large 
volume of applications from student s of various backgrounds from Japan and abroad. As of June 2016, inaugural 
applicants are finishing their final admissions procedures.The Top Global University Project at Keio University in AY2015-2016
Governance Reforms
Development of a Medium-Term Plan
Keio has raised objectives and guidelines for a medium-te rm plan, which formed the basis for individual policies 
established as short-term measures. Keio’s  selection for the Top Global University  Project made the institution reflect 
on what Keio should look like by the end of the project in 2023 and resulted in the Keio Vision for 2023, which divides 
the years up to 2023 into three periods. First unveiled in 2015, the plan is in the midst of the first of these periods.
This first period, dedicated to the pr omoting the Top Global University Proj ect at Keio, focuses on communications, 
internationalization, and pers onnel system reform. Keio has committed to a proactive communications strategy in 
order to better convey its interdisciplinary, internat ional strengths in advanced educ ation and research, which are 
firmly rooted in the three initiatives of Longevity, Security, and Creativity. Increasing International Partner Institutions
In 2014, the total number of partner in stitutions at Keio University was 261. This number in cludes both department-
level and university-wide partnerships fo r academic exchange and joint research. As  of May 1, 2016, this number has 
increased to 310. As partnersh ips continue to thrive and grow, Keio has placed particular emphasis on increasing the 
number of exchange students through univers ity-wide agreements by partnering with  selective inst itutions abroad, 
which are limited to the most select ive universities in the world. Part nership agreements are signed only after 
confirming real possibilities for exchange,  and, as a result, we have experienced a steady but increm ental net increase 
in student exchange numbers.  Moreover, Ke io is committed to strengthening its rela tionships with current partners by 
revisiting former agreements and negot iating increased student quotas.
Keio Short-Term Japanese Studies Program 
Expanding Global Visibility A visiting research co-advisor meets with a 
Ph.D. candidateUniversity-specific Performan ce Indicators and Target Goals
Visiting Research Co-Advis or Scheme in Full Swing
The university commenced full operation of its cross-appointment scheme to 
employ researchers from abroad as visi ting research co-advisors to advise 
doctoral candidates at Keio. In AY2015,  Keio welcomed a total of 60 co-
advisors. Just as the year  before, all parties involv ed—main research advisors, 
visiting research co-advisors, and doctoral candidates—expressed a high 
degree of satisfaction with the scheme. Several joint research and co-authored 
papers have been or are currently in the process of being published. The 
university expects their c ontributions will have a pos itive impact on citation and 
ranking indices. 
Communicating Keio Research Better Than Ever
In November 2015, Keio implemented Pure, a researcher  information system made by Elsevier, to announce the 
findings and contributions of Keio resear ch to the world. The research findings  of full-time academic faculty recorded 
on Scopus, the world’s largest abstract and indexing database of  research information, are released on Pure.  Making 
this information readily available to other institutions  and researchers, especially those abroad, joint research.International Partnerships (As of May 1, 2016)
Keio Ageing Week
Keio Ageing Week was held from Sunday, October 4, to Friday, October 9, 
2015. Organized by Keio University wi th the collaborati on and cooperation of 
various organizations, including the World Economic Forum (WEF), the World Health Organization (WHO), and Osaka Un iversity, the week consisted of an 
international conference and various events including lectures focused on 
healthy ageing, or more specifically, expl oring solutions to challenges related 
to an ageing society. World-leading researchers convened to discuss issues related to a super-ageing population and cognitive decline as part of Keio 
University’s ongoing research on longevity,  one of Keio’s global initiatives and 
a field in which Keio has long had a st rong reputation. This  meeting provided 
new insights needed to spark joint research  on building a society that can cope 
with an ageing population through ongoing interdisciplinary and international research.
 International Conference on Cognitive Decline and its 
Economic Consequences Co-hosted by Keio University and the World Economic ForumImproving and Increasing Overseas Research Hubs
Keio is dedicated to building an envir onment that makes it easy to deliver  world-leading research findings and 
promote international joint research. The university is enhancing collaboration with res earch hubs abroad to improve 
its visibility abroad and increase its num ber of internationally co-authored publications. Since 2014, Keio has 
increased its number of research hubs abr oad from four to sixteen. The universit y will continue to increase these hubs 
in both quality and quantity and provide the high degree of mobility ess ential to successful joint research.
Australia University of New South Wales Singapore Keio – Nus CUTE Center
Australia University of Sydney Switzerland T he European Organization for Nuclear Research
AustriaUniversity of Vienna
The Faculty of Historical and Cultural StudiesUSANational Institute on Aging
Intramural Research Program
AustriaUniversity of Vienna
The Faculty of PsychologyUSA Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard
France The Centre National de la Recherche Sci entifique USA Georgia Institute of Technology
FranceCommissariat à l énergie atomique et aux énergies 
Alternatives
USAUniversity of California, Berkeley
Precision Manufacturing Center in the Department of Mechanical EngineeringFrance The ITER International Fusion Energy Organization
India Indian Institute of Technology HyderabadKoreaYonsei University
Center for Information Technology and GovernanceUSAWashington University in St. Louis
School of Medicine
