Sussex 2025 reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of our University
but does so for new times and a new generation
Introducing Sussex 2025Sussex 2025
Strategic framework
A better
University
For a better
world
Disruptive by design02:01
We have challenged convention since the University’ s foundation in 1961. From the
campus’  modernist architecture on the edge of a rural national park, to our progressive
academics and creative professional services staf f, to the inspiring students who choose
to learn and live here, to the very tone of the institution and the nature of its
conversations, through to the expressions of radicalism, critical thinking and, at times,
dissent.
This is Sussex. We dare to be different.
Today , our staf f, students and alumni continue these traditions, making their own
extraordinary contributions locally , regionally , nationally and globally .
Sussex 2025 reimagines the pioneering spirit of the original purpose of the University
but does so for new times and a new generation.
What we stand for – our values
Our five core values will shape what we say and do. W e will support our staf f, students
and alumni to create a flourishing and strong Sussex culture that continues our traditions
of disruptive creativity and innovation.
At all times, we will strive for excellence in everything we do. Our success and
distinctiveness will be defined through our institutional values, and these will underpin
our education, research and engagement activities.
We will seek to be known as a ‘kind’  institution. W e will care for each other and for the
world around us, in responsible and sustainable ways. W e will value collegiality and
mutual support across all of our actions and activities.Designed to be dif ferent, the University of Sussex has a distinguished tradition of
disruptive and experimental interventions.
Kindness
Integrity
We will ensure that everyone within our community is treated with dignity and respect.
We will value and celebrate the diversity of our campus community and partners, and
what they bring to our activities.
We will put collaboration at the heart of all that we do, seeking out productive and
creative relationships. W e will acknowledge and celebrate everyone’ s contribution.
We will speak out on issues that concern us and will face up to dif ficult challenges. W e
will support those who have the courage to change and be bold, innovative, creative
and experimental.
Through the transformative power of education, research and engagement, we will
work for a better world.
Our framework for continuity and change
The University of Sussex has a long tradition of experimentation and innovation that has
made a real dif ference to the lives of many students, and those who benefit from our
research and wider endeavours. W e will build on these achievements and evolve as a
better university , dedicated to making a better world.
Our framework will guide the institution to 2025 and beyond.
It is a seven-year transformation – an expression of what we stand for and how we will
continue to build on our success whilst reinventing ourselves for the future.Inclusion
Collaboration
Courage
In uncertain and changing times we will need to make tough choices if we are to turn our
ambitions into reality . By working towards a shared vision, and having an understanding
of our common goals, we will prioritise our ef forts.
Our strategic framework is based on four areas:
Learn to transform
Research with impact
Engage for change
Build on strengthsOur strategic framework is based on four areas:
Based on the vision and aspirations outlined in this framework, our academic schools
and professional services divisions will develop their own strategies and operational
plans which will articulate how they will contribute to the University’ s goals and priorities.
Learn to transform
Making students partners in the big decisions that shape our university's future
Our students will receive a transformative, high quality education and learning
experience that will allow them to realise the futures that they want. They will be able to
embrace opportunities and challenges, making meaningful contributions in their own
way. Sussex students will develop the knowledge and skills to be critical thinkers,
entrepreneurs, commentators, citizens and activists.Learn to transform Research with impact Engage for change Build on strengths
Distinctive
We will pioneer , develop and integrate across our on-site and virtual programmes,
cutting-edge and creative innovations in educational pedagogy , learning methods and
digital technologies. Our curriculum will break boundaries, it will inspire students to be
disruptive thinkers, and it will ignite our students’  critical and entrepreneurial
imagination to meet future global challenges.
We will embed meaningful student participation in everything that we do. Students will
routinely participate as partners in the development of their learning, in the discovery of
new knowledge, and in the big decisions that shape the University . Student input will
help to shape the future of our physical estate and the spaces in which they learn, as
well as the design of the curriculum and the appointment of academic staf f. We will be
recognised globally as an inclusive educational community , widening participation,
where the diversity of our student and academic body is celebrated and the individual
needs of our students are respected and supported through a personalised, holistic
and inclusive approach.
We will be known as a university that is world leading in the development, application
and use of smart technologies – whether that is the virtual and augmented reality of
today or the new digital technologies of tomorrow . We will use these technologies to
enhance student learning, facilitate knowledge creation, aid educational administration
and strengthen University governance. Our students will be equipped with enviable
levels of digital literacy and competencies in a wide variety of leading-edge
technologies, ensuring they are able to challenge and succeed in the workplace of the
future and in a rapidly evolving digital society . We will use targeted investment and
strategic partnerships to achieve these aims.
In partnership with our students, we will build creative opportunities that enhance their
experience, and which extend their skills, confidence, competencies and networks so
that they can imagine every possible future. W e will increase the opportunities for
students to take placements and paid internships in government, industry and with civil
society organisations, as well as to participate as volunteers, mentors and communityStudent-centred
Digitally advanced
Enhanced curricula
organisers. W e will recognise the value of these diverse experiences through a new
accreditation scheme that captures these and other contributions, giving students the
opportunity to showcase and celebrate their attainments.
Our students will be confident, knowledgeable and skilled, with clear career choices
and real opportunities. They will be ready to be citizens of the world – connected,
civically and politically engaged, entrepreneurial and creative.
We will have a nationally recognised programme to promote positive student physical
and mental health, and wellbeing. W e will be known as a university that promotes good
health and wellbeing throughout – and beyond – our students’  education. W e will have
a fully accessible campus, with no areas ‘out of bounds’  to people with impairments or
disabilities; we will have appropriate expert mental health services alongside good
physical healthcare; our early warning and support systems will be sensitive, reliable
and highly professional.World citizens
Wellbeing
Research practitioners
Our students will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge, skills and
competencies through active engagement with the pressing research questions and
challenges of our time. They will enhance their skills by working independently and
collectively on topics of mutual interest and significance. They will become members of
research groups, centres, networks and initiatives and work alongside academics and
doctoral researchers, as well as drawing on wider partnerships beyond the University .
These research-practitioner and team-working experiences will provide valuable skills
to help our students succeed in the workplace and communities of the future, and as
citizens in the world of tomorrow .
Research with impact
By challenging conventional thinking and discourse, we will understand and help solve
the grand issues of our time
We will reimagine ‘interdisciplinarity’  as a driving force for our research. This will be
internationally regarded. Our research will create new agendas, contribute new
knowledge and provide new ideas and solutions that will help to shape the world. W e
will challenge conventional thinking and discourses, of fering inspiring and creative ways
to understand and solve global issues.
We will support and develop our researchers to recognise and deliver excellence, at all
times. Our mantra will be ‘quality not quantity’  and we will expect researchers to be
able to produce world-leading work. W e will value research that has an impact outside
academic circles as well as within the academy , and we will develop the skills and
competencies of researchers to maximise the influence and impact of their work.
We will champion new ways to generate knowledge that challenge conventional
wisdom. Extending the boundaries of research, we will draw on technological and
intellectual advances to build a distinctively Sussex research platform and agenda.
We will set up support mechanisms to help our researchers to develop throughout their
whole career , as undergraduate researchers, postgraduate research students,
postdoctoral researchers, early-career academics and established academic staf f. We
will support the whole research lifecycle, from fundamental to applied research, from
first ideas to practical application, with appropriate co-production and iteration with our
external partners. W e will develop leadership and engagement programmes to support
all of our research staf f and future research leaders.Excellence
Experimental
Our people
Our strengths
We will be recognised for the individuals undertaking world-leading enquiry and the
strength of our research in key areas. Sussex will grow these research areas and
invest in emerging areas of excellence. W e will continue to nurture and develop
research excellence wherever it is found. Our research will transcend boundaries, be
they disciplinary , geographical, political, sectoral or cultural. W e will collaborate with
academic organisations, and communities beyond the academy , confronting the grand
challenges facing society and the economy – locally , regionally , nationally and globally .
Interdisciplinarity
Building on our pioneering heritage of interdisciplinarity , we will reclaim our reputation
as the university of choice for academics and doctoral students committed to
interdisciplinary research and engagement, and for students who want to understand
their world beyond disciplinary boundaries. Interdisciplinarity provides creative
opportunities to rethink old and emerging challenges in new ways.
We will re-energise our staf f and students to the possibilities of this – to deliver both
greater knowledge and action for change. W e will do this by supporting the formation
and development of interdisciplinary research programmes, groups and networks
based on recognised and emerging areas of excellence and grand global challenges.
Research at all levels will meet the highest standards of rigour , integrity , ethics and
governance. W e will operate in an open environment and, wherever appropriate,
enable access and share our research for public benefit.
We will support our academics to attract and access the resources needed to
undertake ground-breaking research. Our programmes will develop our researchers’
capabilities, networks and opportunities to maximise their success in grant capture –
from small to large amounts – as well as supporting their ambitions to produce world-
leading enquiry .
We will increase the number and quality of international research collaborations,
partnerships and co-authorships, joining forces with researchers around the world to
work on the global challenges that we all face. W e will build a greater international
profile and reputation as one of the leading research universities in the world. Our
researchers will be highly regarded for the quality and distinctiveness of their work and
for its wider impact.Integrity
Grant capture
International reputation
Engage for change
Connected, engaged, entrepreneurial, creative... And citizens of the world
We will be widely respected as an engaged university – interacting purposefully with
people, organisations and communities at a local, regional, national and international
level. W e will do this so that we can bring benefits to society at large, the economy and
to the many individuals who are part of our world. Our external engagement will enable
greater public understanding of science, technology , medicine, health, society , the arts
and humanities – challenging pre-conceptions and arming people with knowledge and
ideas to inform their personal and collective choices. W e will contribute to the
democratic process, inspiring citizens to be active agents in their own communities. By
doing this, we will learn and gain from our partners, just as much as they do from us.
We will embed the ethos and practice of external engagement across all of our
academic schools and activities. W e will become connected to, trusted, and respected
by more external partners at local, regional, national and international levels. Diverse
individuals and groups will feel more connected with the University and will benefit, as
we will too, from greater access, interaction and knowledge exchange. W e will
establish a development programme to provide academics and professional services
staff with sector-leading training to develop their knowledge, skills and practices.
We will be seen as both listening and acting in the local and regional interest, working
with public bodies, charities and civic society to find solutions to economic and social
challenges. W e will co-deliver projects on the ground in local communities – making a
real dif ference to people’ s daily lives and helping our partners to tackle big and small
issues. W e will be known as an anchor institution that convenes community dialogue
and encourages social cohesion. W e will develop our volunteering programme, withEthos
Community
more students and staf f making valuable contributions to local communities, initiatives
and projects, and we will recognise and value these interactions as transformative for
individuals and the community .
With a network of alumni in more than 150 countries around the world, Sussex
graduates are our best ambassadors and the embodiment of our values and
knowledge. Building on their warmth, loyalty and commitment, we will create new
engagement opportunities that drive and encourage increased involvement with their
alma mater . We will establish an ambitious programme to include our alumni and
supporters more extensively and ef fectively in our local, national and international
engagements. W e will draw on their experiences, expertise and networks, to broaden
our engagement activities and to widen our influence and impact. Our alumni and
supporters will join us in shaping the future of the University and will be at the heart of
what makes Sussex a great and enduring institution.Alumni
Cultural
We will use the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts, The Keep and our many
assets to forge broader and deeper partnerships with local communities, creative and
cultural industries. The collections at The Keep, including our Special Collections and
Mass Observation Archive of fer an unrivalled record of regional and national history
and social culture. These assets will be used to ignite innovative, world-class teaching
and learning across the disciplines, harnessing creative methodologies and emergent
technologies to build on our pedagogical approach. They will enhance our research,
attracting grants and prestige partnerships. Through the Attenborough Centre for the
Creative Arts, we will bring the world’ s leading artists, thinkers and provocateurs to the
University to show their work and embed them in campus life.
We will embed business engagement, innovation and enterprise activities, addressing
the relevant strands of the Government’ s Industrial Strategy and its successors. These
activities will support productivity improvement and will be supported by well-regarded
business engagement staf f, working across the University to accelerate and maximise
our business and industrial activities. W e will help and support academics to use these
opportunities and collaborations for mutual benefit. The Sussex Innovation Centre will
become a leading hub for innovation and technology . It will be a conduit for our
enhanced commercialised, business engagement and knowledge exchange activities.
We will expand our unique Catalyst programme, which links students with business
and industry . This will complement their studies and University experiences, providing
them with stronger career opportunities while growing the institution’ s networks and
reputation.
We will create an international leadership programme that will recognise and reward
students who participate in mobility and inter-cultural awareness activities. To enable
this, we will develop a model that will allow more students to engage in having an
international experience, whether at home or overseas. This will be embedded in our
curriculum, as well as extending to opportunities with overseas partners – bringing our
students together with students from across the globe. Additionally , we will develop
programmes to enhance the international mobility opportunities for our staf f, ensuring
there are exciting and sustainable ways for colleagues to connect with partners and
institutions throughout their academic and professional work. W e will create new ,
innovative, global hubs where research, teaching, blended learning and executive
education can be delivered and that strengthen our international reach and reputation.
Build on strengths
A people-powered transformation
For a kinder universityBusiness
International
We will re-engineer our processes, structures and governance with a special focus on
our core professional services of Human Resources, IT , Finance and Estates. Sussex
will be known in the higher education sector for its agility , efficiency , effectiveness and
care in enhancing and delivering our academic vision, strategies and priorities. W e will
have a confident and agile academic and administrative workforce, which understands
its role in delivering the University’ s priorities and value-for-money outcomes.
Our staf f and students will recognise the institution as one that values its people as its
greatest asset. W e will draw on our people to deliver great outcomes. Our staf f will be
supported to do their best teaching and research, and our students will be empowered
as partners in their education. Exceptional teaching and research contributions will be
rewarded equally . Our professional services staf f will be supported in their endeavours
and will be respected from within the institution and across the sector . Our alumni will
be engaged actively in the life and work of the University , supporting students, being
ambassadors for the University , and making their own distinctive contributions to
engagement and the common good.
Strategic and competency-based frameworks will support the professional and
personal development of all of our people. This will help them to define their career
journey and manage their own aspirations in a way that best aligns their goals with
those of their school or division. Using an inclusive people-centred approach, we will
underpin our commitment to upholding equal respect across all our activities. Success
will be recognised and rewarded through a model that ascribes equal value to work
undertaken in support of all the University’ s education, research and engagement
goals.
We will take bold action to reduce inequality and promote diversity and good relations.
We will transform the University so that our campus community has a fully inclusive
experience, providing the kind of environment where people can achieve their
ambitions and potential. W e will make this happen by being accessible, caring and
flexible in everything we do.People powered
Staff development
Equality and diversity
We will establish a powerful and robust digital infrastructure, supporting our students in
their education and learning; academics with their teaching; researchers in their pursuit
of new knowledge, engagement and impact; and our professional services in the
delivery of our priorities. W e will have a technological infrastructure in place that
distinguishes us as a leading institution in digital transformation. W e will partner with
leading organisations to build a digital campus fit for the 21st century; pioneering the
use of smart technologies and other leading-edge innovations; championing the use of
automated, immersive and experiential techniques; using state-of-the-art energy
provision to dramatically reduce our impact on the natural environment.Digital infrastructure
Pride in place
We will capitalise more assertively on our location and place as a village-campus on
the edge of Sussex’ s stunning South Downs National Park, close to the sea and
vibrancy of Brighton & Hove. Our pride in place, and our commitment to local
engagement, will position the University as a unique space to learn, live, work, thrive
and revive – a creative community built on enabling, empowering and caring values.
A high-quality estate will attract students and staf f to Sussex. W e will complete the next
phase of our Estate Plan, having built more than 2,000 new bedrooms for our students,
new teaching and research facilities and a student services centre. In addition, we will
have increased the number and quality of learning spaces both on and of f the campus.Estate
We will focus on core facilities to support the student experience, especially around the
activities housed in our heritage and residential estate. Sussex’ s new estate strategy
will clearly articulate the ten-year rolling programme of capital developments, as well
as the ambition and challenge around the estate, enabling appropriate and timely
developments and renovations to deliver our academic priorities. Our focus on
delivering cost-ef fective core services, to a high standard and in an environmentally
sustainable way , will be well known.
The University has a strong business model that seeks to balance improvements in
existing programmes and infrastructure with investment in new activity and people. W e
will seek to increase resilience and capacity by diversifying income sources and
increasing our delivery ef ficiency . In doing so, we will aim to enable more ambitious
investment into our education of fering, research facilities, infrastructure, people and
estate. W e will grow our surplus to ensure we can invest in the University’ s future and
become more resilient to wider economic and sector changes.
We will embed a model of ‘The Sussex Leader ’, which exemplifies the values and
behaviours that are expected of all those in leadership roles at Sussex. This will foster
and facilitate greater trust and devolution. Using this model, we will develop our
leadership competencies at all levels, ensuring that staf f understand their own style
and can adapt them to deal with dif ferent situations in order to motivate and energise
their teams. W e will prepare staf f for leadership roles early in their careers so they
have the necessary depth and breadth of experience to take on roles with greater
responsibility . Significant steps will be taken to achieve greater diversity among our
leaders. Our leadership philosophy to embrace collaboration, trust and collegiality will
be key to our future success.
As we develop our education, research and engagement activities, we will ensure that
we celebrate and harness these successes – sharing these widely with our networks
and stakeholders. Good news and success fuels positive energy and furtherReinvestment
Leadership
Celebration
achievement. W e will build inspiring narratives that infuse and energise our
communities and diverse groups, and instil values of trust, openness and transparency .
Our engagements will be two-way – a conversation that matters.
If ever there was a time for a great university  to stand on the sidelines this isn't it.
Visit  the University of Sussex  website (https://www. sussex.ac.uk)
(https://twitter .com/sussexuni)  (https://www .facebook.com/un  (https://www .instagram  (https://www .y  (httpsUniversity of Sussex
Sussex House,  Falmer
Brighton,  BN1 9RH
United Kingdom
Course and application enquiries:
study@sussex.ac.uk  (mailto:study@sussex.ac.uk)
General enquiries:
+44 (0)1273 606755  (tel:+441273606755)
information@sussex.ac.uk  (mailto:information@sussex.ac.uk)
Copyright © 2018, University of Sussex
Accessibility  (http://www .sussex.ac.uk/aboutus/website/accessibility) |
Privacy  (http://www .sussex.ac.uk/aboutus/website/privacy) |
Cookies  (http://www .sussex.ac.uk/aboutus/website/cookies)
