Radboud University   Mankind and the universe. Will we ever understand it all? Fully comprehend it? The answer lies in the ques?on itself. But with insa?able curiosity we keep trying. Seeking answers for a planet and a world on which we make ever greater demands. That requires people with a drive for knowledge. Each in a speciﬁc ﬁeld, coming together for a common purpose. Exploring, discovering, trying, failing and succeeding. STRATEGIE RADBOUD UNIVERSITEIT JULI 2019 STRATEGY RADBOUD UNIVERSITY JULY 2019 strategies strategy. A signiﬁcant impact Ever since it was founded in 1923, Radboud University has been making a signiﬁcant impact. We are contribu?ng to a healthy, free world with equal opportuni?es for all. We are guided by both academic ques?ons and societal challenges. We have an eye to ethical issues and the implica?ons of our research for society. We are ac?ve across many ﬁelds of academic endeavour. Research and teaching are closely interlinked at our university. We encourage an open intellectual climate in which staﬀ and students inspire and challenge one another, a climate in which they change perspec?ves, push boundaries, take responsibility and reach their full poten?al. We form a close academic community together with Radboud university medical center. Staﬀ and students feel a commitment to one another, to society and to the world around them. Our students develop into conscien?ous, commiXed, cri?cal and self-conﬁdent graduates who go on to take up responsible posi?ons in society What do you think you were doing? We’re relying less on our senses and reac?on ?mes and more on digital technologies. That means those technologies are taking on a liability of their own. What rights, and more importantly what obliga?ons, will tomorrow’s autonomous vehicles have?. Ge[ng hackers into a diﬀerent kind of cell? Disabling one of the ABC proteins in the malaria parasite changes the parasite’s programming and stops it breaking out of the liver to infect blood cells. The hacked parasite gives the immune system plenty of ?me to develop a response. This could herald a breakthrough in the ﬁght against malaria. How far can we trust robots? When will the robo?sa?on of society reach its ethical limits? What will we gain as a civilisa?on and what will we lose? How far we can go will depend increasingly on how far we want to go. The ethical debate on robo?sa?on will run and run. 13% van. 13% of people in the Netherlands ﬁnd this ad diﬃcult Our communica?on is increasingly digital. Nowadays it’s not unusual to have a thousand friends. Online, anyway. But if you can’t read or type, you don’t have a say. Without language people get le` out. We’re not having that. We’re working to stop it. Because everyone should be able to par?cipate in our society. How fair is fair trade food if people can’t aﬀord it? There’s growing demand for authen?city in society and a longing for honest products. But that will pose problems in the decades ahead due to spiralling costs of the energy transi?on and the shi` to sustainability. Con?nued access to healthy, fresh products will then be a key concern for researchers.. B-Day A report on the results of research by 150 scien?sts shocked the world and dominated global headlines for days during the spring of 2019. A`er already having lost 75% of our insect popula?on we may just lose another 25% in the next few decades. What will that mean for mankind’s survival? Researchers are ringing alarm bells. Let me think about it for a moment Nowadays having an opinion o`en seems more important than what that opinion is. But taking ?me to make up your mind is more a sign of development than of weakness A signiﬁcant impact 7 TEACHING 25 We focus on people and community Our students develop into cri?cal, commiXed and self-conﬁdent graduates 25 We respond to new developments Face-to-face contact in a digital world 27 Our doors are open We embrace broad perspec?ves on the world 30 RESEARCH 33 The quality of our research is interna?onally recognised Founded on 
collabora?on 33 An open research culture: FAIR and with integrity We support researchers in Open Science 35 IMPACT 37 Our teaching and research maXer We work on the world around us 37 At the heart of society We show what we have to oﬀer 38 Caring for the future Our task is to train new genera?ons 39 PEOPLE 41 We are commiXed to one another Respect for each other and for each other’s diﬀerences 41 FACILITIES 45 Livening up the campus A vibrant and sustainable mee?ng place 45 Credits 56 . Our educa?onal vision Quality, connec?on and personal contact are central to our educa?onal vision. This has a posi?ve impact on development opportuni?es for our students and on their well-being. Our students learn from one another and take responsibility for the learning of their fellow students. Personal and connected Our teaching focuses on the individual. We want every student on campus to develop fully. At the start of their programme, we provide suﬃcient structure to help them ﬁnd their way at our university. As they progress, we oﬀer increasing ﬂexibility: the programme is increasingly tailored to the learning ques?ons of the developing students. Contact between lecturer and student and among students themselves is an essen?al part of their studies. Mentoring helps each student acquire growing academic and professional independence. An interna?onal focus and regional roots Radboud University is an interna?onally oriented university with strong roots in the region. Our university welcomes students from diﬀerent backgrounds, countries and cultures and oﬀers equal opportuni?es for all. Radboud University is commiXed to making sure everyone on campus feels at homeBachelor’s programmes: developing cri?cal thinking Our bachelor’s students build a solid founda?on within their chosen programme for the next stage of their studies. In the bachelor’s programme, they experience the depth that is part of an academic discipline. This forms the core of their academic training. From that founda?on, they are able to converse eﬀec?vely with experts from other disciplines. Our university gives them ample opportunity to do so. Each bachelor’s programme oﬀers room for elec?ves, which students can also select from outside their own discipline. In addi?on, all students receive philosophy training and come into contact with sustainability issues within their own discipline. All students have an opportunity to gain interna?onal learning experience and we encourage extra-curricular ac?vi?es in, for example, work on boards, sport, culture and entrepreneurship. This helps them to develop cri?cal thinking skills in prepara?on for taking up responsible posi?ons in society. Master’s programmes: a growing ambi?on to con?nue learning Alongside programmes oﬀering in-depth knowledge of the discipline, we oﬀer our master’s students interdisciplinary or mul?disciplinary programmes. There they learn to deal with ques?ons from academia and from society that demand a broader, interdisciplinary approach. Our master’s programmes have a dis?nc?ve proﬁle that dis?nguishes them from programmes at other ins?tu?ons at home and abroad. These programmes, and in par?cular our special research master’s programmes, are closely ?ed to our research. In this way, students receive the best possible prepara?on for an academic career. All our master’s programmes meet the needs of a rapidly changing society, which calls for mo?vated, crea?ve and versa?le professionals with up-to-date knowledge and skills, and a desire to keep learning. In this way we are enhancing our students’ future prospects. We maintain ac?ve rela?onships – interna?onally, na?onally and regionally – with companies and ins?tu?ons that oﬀer internship places that are of interest to our students. 26 radboud universiteit radboud university We incorporate the latest educa?onal research ﬁndings into the design and organisa?on of our programmes. With the help of the Radboud Teaching and Learning Centre, Radboud University boosts the quality of its teaching through research and innova?on. The Centre is a place where lecturers and students can meet, share 
experiences and inspire one another, ensuring that educa?onal innova?ons are felt across the university. The Centre also provides prac?cal support with educa?onal innova?ons and plays a key role in the professional development of our lecturers. Digital resources and face-to-face contact Digital resources oﬀer many opportuni?es for improving, enriching and complemen?ng teaching. They make learning paths more ﬂexible and allow teaching to be tailored to the individual student. Within each programme, students learn to use digital technology that is relevant for their discipline. This involves reﬂec?ng on the implica?ons of technological developments for academia and for society. In an increasingly digital world, we as a university also con?nue to support the need for face-to-face contact – between students and lecturers and among students. When it comes to the crea?ve and innova?ve use of digital technology in teaching, there is a lot that we as an academic community can learn from one another. The Radboud Teaching and Learning Centre plays a key role here. For example, the Centre gathers data on how students learn, with a view to improving our teaching s?ll further. We make the most of opportuni?es and possibili?es in this area, allowing students individual choices about sharing their data, thereby safeguarding their privacy. We respond to new developments Face-to-face contact in a digital world strategie strategy Interna?onal experience We regard the interna?onal and intercultural context as indispensable for the quality of our teaching. Our ambi?on is that everyone who graduates from Radboud University will have gained interna?onal experience, either at our university or abroad. Speaking about language Our students are trained in strong communica?on skills in prepara?on for the job market. Our language policy is aimed at improving their proﬁciency in at least Dutch and English. We have introduced diagnos?c tes?ng in Dutch and English, coupled with supplementary courses where necessary. The language of instruc?on for each programme, specialisa?on or course is determined on the basis of quality and content. Other considera?ons include the demands of the professional ﬁeld and the need to ensure that the programmes remain accessible to Dutch students. The right place for everyone Radboud University owes its origins to the Catholic emancipa?on movement of early last century. Because of our heritage, we aXach great value to accessibility: we feel a responsibility to provide anyone who is willing and strategie strategy 29. able to undertake university study with an opportunity to do so. This applies par?cularly to students who for whatever reason are unfamiliar with universi?es. We regard the quality of teaching as paramount. We take the necessary steps if this quality comes under pressure through unexpected ﬂuctua?ons in student numbers. We wish to grow in quality, not necessarily in quan?ty. ‘The right student in the right place’ is our guiding principle. Contribu?ng to a learning society Learning doesn’t stop once you graduate from university. Graduates con?nue to develop throughout their lives. They require ﬂexible, modular forms of post-ini?al educa?on, with content that is determined by social need, personal ambi?on and/or a curiosity that is anchored in academic knowledge. As a university we welcome anyone who wishes to keep developing in this way. We use new pedagogical models, personalised learning paths and a combina?on of online-applica?ons and face-to-face encounters on campus. In so doing, we contribute to a learning society together with interna?onal, na?onal and regional partners. Academic freedom and applica?ons in society The research at Radboud University is of a high academic quality and is characterised by integrity and academic freedom. Curiosity is the primary driver for our researchers. This is also true when the emphasis of their research is on its applica?on to society. Top-quality research Academic freedom, integrity and curiosity are precondi?ons for academic research of high quality. Top-quality research is only possible in an open and unrestricted interna?onal context, where 
researchers work within interna?onal networks and have access to the infrastructure of interna?onal knowledge, funding and publica?on. We encourage every researcher – from PhD candidate to professor – to gain interna?onal experience. Wide-ranging research: within and across disciplines We are a broad-based university with a dynamic range of research focuses. Our combina?on of academic disciplines provides opportuni?es for mul?disciplinary and interdisciplinary research. On our compact campus, we work closely with the Radboud university medical center and the Max Planck Ins?tute for Psycholinguis?cs. Our research responds to the complex problems of today and tomorrow. We encourage coopera?on between disciplines and we challenge our staﬀ to engage in cross-disciplinary research. Our students are involved in research wherever possible, which enriches both teaching and research. Academic research cons?tutes the future of our teaching, just as our students cons?tute the future of our research. de basis We encourage our researchers to be ac?vely involved and to take the lead role in interna?onal research networks and projects. We work in interna?onal programmes, European ones in par?cular, in order to secure resources for our research and to enhance collabora?on with top universi?es, companies and civil society organisa?ons abroad. Grant applica?ons to secure these resources are ac?vely and professionally supported from both Nijmegen and Brussels. When choosing interna?onal partners, we opt for quality over quan?ty. Unique facili?es Our university invests in unique research facili?es of interna?onal signiﬁcance. Examples are the combina?on of magnets and lasers for materials research at HFMLFELIX and brain scan facili?es for research at the Donders Ins?tute for Brain, Cogni?on and Behaviour, as well as the wealth of research opportuni?es oﬀered by the Catholic Documenta?on Centre and the University Library’s special collec?ons. With facili?es such as these, we provide an impetus for research collabora?on between diﬀerent disciplines. Companies, organisa?ons and ins?tu?ons can come to our university and take advantage of our range of rooms, facili?es, labs and equipment. Feeling responsible and taking responsibility As a university, we feel a responsibility for the world in which we live. We want to be in the vanguard when it comes to achieving the United Na?ons sustainable development goals and to make our own contribu?on to the changes needed in the world in the coming decades. Our broad range of academic disciplines and the opportuni?es for mul?disciplinary and interdisciplinary research at our campus oﬀer excellent possibili?es here. Making our ﬁndings public At Radboud University we have complete academic freedom and an open culture. It is axioma?c that our researchers exchange ideas openly with one another. This also means giving and receiving cri?cism and 34 understanding that academic research is an ongoing process in which we openly share and discuss our ﬁndings. Our research meets the standards of academic integrity. We make clear agreements about staﬀ involvement and the use of knowledge in start-ups, for example. We see academic integrity as the shared responsibility of individual researchers, the research group and the university as a whole. Academic integrity is also part of our students’ training. We apply the na?onal code of conduct for academic integrity in our research as well as our teaching. Open Science: access to research data The developments regarding Open Science are complex and bring with them major changes for all researchers. Open Science is not only about open access and publica?ons, but also about the reuse and storage of data. Research funded by public money should make a contribu?on to society and be publicly accessible wherever possible. We facilitate and support our researchers in this endeavour. Open access and making research data accessible are part and parcel of an open scien?ﬁc and academic culture. Open access publishing is part of our social responsibility. Our ambi?on regarding research data 
management is that data associated with all publica?ons should be stored in a way that is FAIR (ﬁndable, accessible, interoperable and reusable). Findability and accessibility, along with the associated infrastructure and support, will be a major focus of our programme for research data management in the years ahead. We will play a key role in this area, both na?onally and interna?onallyMeaningful teaching and research The teaching and research at Radboud University are meaningful, not just for our own students and staﬀ but also for the world around us. We are working on a healthy, free world with equal opportuni?es for all. Together with our social partners and other knowledge ins?tu?ons, we are commiXed to tackling the challenges facing our society. We look for answers, solu?ons and the added value to society that our teaching and research bring. Our range of disciplines allows us to help ﬁnd answers to a broad spectrum of issues facing society, ranging from health, climate, well-being and arts & culture to safety and the way society is organised. Our teaching and research are meaningful, both interna?onally and for our immediate environment. Interna?onal alliances Together with our partners – including the Associa?on of Universi?es in the Netherlands (VSNU) and The Guild, a network of European universi?es – we are commiXed to collabora?on at the na?onal, European and interna?onal levels. Radboud University enters into interna?onal and regional strategic alliances, based on our view that coopera?on should be a structural and valuable investment. Our partnerships are characterised by quality and reciprocity, with ethical considera?ons playing a role in our choice of partnerships. Enterprising in the wider region As a university, we are posi?oned at the heart of society. Our immediate environment – city, province and border region – is home to many companies, educa?onal ins?tu?ons and other ins?tu?ons and organisa?ons with whom we enter into or build on meaningful rela?onships. It is at this interface between government, industry, civil society and other knowledge and educa?onal ins?tu?ons that collabora?on generates perfect opportuni?es. We ac?vely seek out ques?ons from our environment to which we as a university can respond. Visibility is key We encourage enterprise among our students and staﬀ via start-ups. We work to make our research visible to a wide audience and we play an ac?ve role in the public discourse. We strive to make our rich heritage visible and publicly accessible. At the same ?me, as academics we follow developments within society with a cri?cal eye: iden?fying social developments is an inalienable task of academia. At the heart of society Radboud Universiteit en het Radboud Pre-University College. Alumni are important ambassadors Alongside our collabora?on partners, alumni are our chief ambassadors and we maintain good rela?ons with them. We oﬀer lectures, share ar?cles and provide other opportuni?es for them to broaden their knowledge and keep in touch with the university. In so doing, we give our alumni an opportunity to con?nue to develop. Alumni are also an important source of feedback about the direc?on in which university should go. We therefore involve them in curriculum development, informa?on about the choice of study programme and careers, guest lectures and fundraising. Impact on primary and secondary educa?on We have a social responsibility to train new genera?ons of teachers. In view of the acute teacher shortage, this mandate has a major impact. Radboud University provides modules and programmes for diﬀerent groups of prospec?ve teachers to ensure an adequate supply of academically trained primary and secondary school teachers for the region. These teachers are able to reﬂect on how educa?on should be organised to ensure that pupils and students learn to think cri?cally and can develop fully to become crea?ve and enterprising ci?zens. We also make a direct contribu?on, via the Radboud University Science Educa?on Hub and Radboud Pre-University College, to promo?ng curiosity and an inquiring a[tude among children and 
young people in primary and secondary schools. which staﬀ and students inspire and challenge one another. As an academic community, the university is characterised by apprecia?on and respect for each other and for each other’s diﬀerences. Inclusivity in a broad sense, social safety and the safety of the study and working environment are key principles. We aXach great importance to diversity, among both students and staﬀ. We ac?vely communicate these principles so that all staﬀ and students are able to achieve, develop and feel at home: their well-being is a subject close to our heart. This means we will commit ourselves in the coming years to reducing the workload of our students and staﬀ and to improve their well-being. Because of our historical background, we pay special aXen?on to students and staﬀ who are forced to seek refuge in our region. We make dedicated funds available to provide them with opportuni?es and support. Personal and academic leadership Courage, connec?on and openness are core values for our staﬀ, giving them the space and responsibility to develop their talents and achieve their ambi?ons. This starts with personal leadership. We invest in the ongoing development of our students, our academic staﬀ, our support staﬀ and the way we all work. to be aXrac?ve and sustainable, there has to be the right balance in terms of the value we place on research, teaching, impact, support and leadership. What maXers is the contribu?on that individual staﬀ make to the university as a whole. We seek a balance between apprecia?on of individual achievements and of achievements made as a team, for instance by introducing team awards or by taking into account team performance in currently exis?ng awards. Each member of staﬀ contributes to the team’s achievements based on their own skills and abili?es, thereby reducing the burden on each individual. The way we recognise and value teaching, research and impact is changing. For academic staﬀ, we seek a beXer balance in future in terms of their overall contribu?on. Quality, not quan?ty, is key. Responsibility for staﬀ on a temporary contract We feel responsible for the future prospects of staﬀ on a temporary contract, such as PhD candidates and postdocs, as well as support staﬀ. We provide informa?on about their career prospects at an early stage and oﬀer opportuni?es for further training. PhD candidates and postdocs are given opportuni?es to gain teaching experience. An aXrac?ve employer To remain aXrac?ve as an employer, we seek to an?cipate the needs of new genera?ons entering the interna?onal job market. Newer genera?ons of graduates place high demands on work and the working environment, something that we, as an employer, are keenly aware of. This means that we have to invest in our ability to aXract staﬀ and in our talent policy, as well as in modern and transparent recruitment and selec?on procedures. An organisa?on that can readily adapt As a university, we operate in a dynamic academic and social environment. This calls for an organisa?on that can readily adapt and that places high demands on the ﬂexibility of our lecturers, researchers, support staﬀ and students. In doing so, Radboud University pays aXen?on to the well-being and workload of its staﬀ and students and is ac?vely involved in issues regarding the health of its staﬀ and students. At the same ?me, our organisa?on needs to be eﬀec?ve and eﬃcient. To further strengthen the organisa?on, we are commiXed to improving its ﬂexibility and eﬃciency, for example by harmonising processes where possible and where necessary. strategie strategy Studying, mee?ng and collabora?ng The Radboud University campus plays a key role in our ambi?ons for personal educa?on and interdisciplinary research. Our campus is an invi?ng place to study, meet and collaborate. These ac?vi?es are supported by our technical and infrastructure facili?es, which are state--o`he-art to provide op?mum support for teaching and research. We consider the needs of our students and staﬀ in the design of the campus. The campus is ﬁrst and foremost a place 
where students and staﬀ come together, work, collaborate and relax. It is also a place where the university and society can come together: our university stands at the centre of society. So too does our ‘digital campus’, where we facilitate online teaching, research, knowledge sharing and encounters through accessible, stable and user-friendly technological and infrastructure facili?es that are in line with the needs of our researchers, teachers, support staﬀ and students. Transforming our campus We are transforming our campus into an accessible knowledge district in the city and region. It will be a green and dynamic area with ﬂexible opportuni?es for development, where a range of ac?vi?es, ways of living, cultures and sports can take place alongside teaching and research. We s?mulate ini?a?ves that enliven the campus and strengthen our rela?onship with the city of Nijmegen and the region. This means a greater blending. of func?ons and a campus that is also alive in the evening. These changes will help to break through the tradi?onal monoculture of teaching and research on the Heyendaal campus. We are working on this together with the municipality, province, Radboud university medical center and other partners. Together, we are also tackling the challenges of mobility and road safety, with a view to making the campus as green and safe as possible. Our facili?es are op?mally designed to support teaching and research and to facilitate excellent business opera?ons. To the best of our ability, we will apply the knowledge available in our facul?es. Much more than a place to study For our students, the campus is much more than just a place to study. Students take an ac?ve part in extracurricular ac?vi?es – as members of boards and par?cipa?onal bodies, in cultural and spor?ng ac?vi?es. They want to be part of the organising process. We give them an opportunity to do so and we support this endeavour, in the convic?on that it will have a posi?ve impact on their development and well-being. Our campus will beneﬁt from this as well. Our facili?es are designed with this in mind. Improving sustainability We are commiXed to improving sustainability on campus. This involves working closely together with Radboud university medical center. We aspire towards a green and healthy campus with a posi?ve impact in terms of climate and crea?ng a circular economy. We are leaders in this ﬁeld, making the best possible use of exis?ng facili?es. We use modern tools and make use of our ‘smart campus’ as a ‘living lab’: a place where we experiment and encourage innova?on on themes such as sustainability and social safety. Radboud University wishes to contribute to a healthy, free world with equal opportuni?es for all. It begins right here on our own campus.. Nijmegen, 2019 Credits The Strategy was realised on the basis of strategic sessions in dialogue with our students, staﬀ and external rela?ons. The strategic sessions were organized by Frisse Blikken. Special thanks go to Radboud University control group and workgroup. The content has been translated into English by Radboud in’to Languages. The crea?ve design was jointly realised by Gloedcommunica?e and Total Design. A limited number of copies of the Strategy was printed by Drukkerij van Deventer, in accordance with FSC standards, but it is broadly available online. Nijmegen 2019  
