VITAL 2030
A VISION FOR AUB FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND
Office of the President  |   June 2020

INTRODUCTION
Throughout its 154-year history, the American University of Beirut (AUB) has delivered 
transformative service to the people of Lebanon, the Arab world, and beyond. It educates 
students to the highest global standards, instilling citizenship and unlocking their talents; 
it exemplifies a thriving liberal ethos in which the quest for knowledge is enabled by 
institutional values that prize critical thinking, mutual tolerance, and dialogue; its faculty, 
while small by international standards, is comparable to that of a top international 
university; it employs an exceptionally dynamic and dedicated staff; and its health services 
make the most advanced treatments available to a wide diversity of patients. 
Given the daunting challenges facing Lebanon and the MENA region and our increasingly 
connected world, AUB cannot rely purely on this legacy of excellence and impact, 
impressive though it is. Like any successful, sustainable institution, the university must 
keep moving forward to ensure it renews its purpose and relevance in a rapidly unfolding 
future. This document outlines the progress of the last four years towards developing 
a formal strategic planning approach to position AUB structurally to address national, 
regional, and international demands and changes. 
Since taking up his role as AUB’s 16th president, Dr. Fadlo R. Khuri has articulated the 
necessity and urgency of breathing new life into the university’s mission, from the local 
to the global level, so that AUB may continue transforming education, public service, and 
health in the long term. Setting the pace from the outset, President Khuri’s inauguration 
address on January 25, 2016 crystallized his vision for AUB under four aspirational 
headings covering students, faculty, staff, and alumni, which served to mark out the 
route ahead1. 
    “This university, its leaders and its 
faculty, its staff and students, have 
always preferred to shape events, 
rather than be shaped by them. 
To act, rather than be acted upon.” 
– Fadlo R. Khuri, PresidentINTRODUCTION   1
The four aspirational areas of focus of the new strategic plan are:
1. Education as the path to a more abundant life:  
Against growing external competition and challenges, the university must continue to stand 
out as an aspirational destination university for the best and the brightest, regardless of their 
origins or ability to afford an AUB education. This goal will be achieved by striving to provide 
new opportunities for young leaders to make a positive and even transformative difference in 
their societies and enabling all whom AUB touches to lead more abundant, meaningful, and 
purposeful lives.
2. Expansion and empowerment of the research mission:  
After implementing academic tenure in a manner that is fiscally responsible and empowering of 
faculty, the university needs to leverage its ambitious capital campaign to reinvigorate research 
and infrastructure on campus and at the medical center and secure modern, competitive 
resources to realize a vision of world-class scholarly and translational research output.  
3. A better, fairer, healthier, and more sustainable workplace:  
AUB must ensure its non-academic staff are enabled to develop their careers and improve their 
lives, through training, and being empowered, energized, and valued. AUB must be a role model 
of fairness, transparency, and best practices that cuts through those external and internal factors 
holding the university back and imperiling its economic, environmental, and ethical sustainability. 
4. An alma mater for the 21st century:  
AUB’s 70,000 living graduates are among the most loyal, accomplished, and influential alumni 
of any university in the world. The university needs to engage these alumni transparently, 
honestly, continuously, and ethically in a relationship of mutual respect, collaborative growth, 
and partnership, rather than one of interdependence.
       “With the inauguration of Fadlo 
Khuri, we renew our commitment 
to an ever-more-ambitious sense 
of purpose.” 
Philip S. Khoury,  
Chair, Board of Trustees2  VITAL 2030 INTRODUCTION   3
FROM INAUGURAL VISION  
TO VITAL 2030
The VITAL 2030 plan coalesced at the end of an in-depth strategic planning 
and master planning process over three years, but it was unthinkable for the 
university to stand idle during that planning process. At the dawn of AUB’s 
second 150 years, with new senior leadership and a new direction based on 
the four elements of President Khuri’s inaugural vision, the time was right 
to begin enacting substantive, systemic changes that would position the 
university for even greater leaps forward in the future. Numerous university-
wide and faculty-level initiatives were launched and realized during the period 
between the inauguration and the launch of VITAL 2030. These initiatives fit 
within the overarching strategic planning framework, laying a firm foundation 
for the implementation of the VITAL goals, objectives, and strategies. 
Following are just some of the transformative initiatives that the university 
has realized over the past few years. 
One of the current administration’s top priorities remains ensuring that AUB 
continues to attract the best and brightest, regardless of financial constraints. 
Toward this end, AUB has capped tuition fee rises for the last four years 
and introduced a plethora of new scholarship programs that have greatly 
expanded student diversity on campus. Equally important is providing 
students and faculty with the resources they need to realize transformative 
educational experiences. The BOLDLY AUB capital campaign, launched 
in 2017 , is bringing in much-needed funds to transform AUB’s campus and 
medical center. New state-of-the-art buildings already completed include 
the Daniel Academic and Clinical Center, the Munib and Angela Masri Building, 
and an extensive renovation of Penrose Hall.
      “AUB itself is an inspiration, growing, 
changing, excelling despite contradictions 
and fault lines, maneuvering, battening 
down and blossoming out; a model of the 
university as part of civil society, engaged 
with it and working for it, drawing energy 
from it and serving it.”
– Ahdaf Souief, Hon. DHL 2017
      “The future of the 
region belongs to all its 
people…Opportunities 
to flourish should not 
be limited to include 
only those who have 
the means.”
– Zine Labidine Ghebouli 
(BA ’19)FROM INAUGURAL VISION TO VITAL 2030  5 4  VITAL 2030
The reintroduction of academic tenure in 2018 was a huge step towards 
cementing AUB’s global reputation for outstanding research and 
attracting world-class faculty recruits. In addition, AUB has introduced 
new PhD programs in epidemiology and chemistry, as well as an 
interdisciplinary, inter-faculty PhD program in biomedical engineering. 
This period also saw the elevation of the Hariri School of Nursing to 
independent faculty status.
Transforming the health and wellbeing of Lebanese and broader Arab 
communities has been another pillar of this administration. Dr. Khuri 
brought with him a new vision for health that aims to develop an 
all-encompassing approach to human health, including mental health, 
nutrition, agriculture, nursing, public health, science, and clinical 
medicine. AUB also took the bold step of declaring the campus tobacco 
free as of August 31, 2018 and was recognized for this by the World 
Health Organization. 
Caring for the region’s most vulnerable patients is a critical aspect of the 
university’s mission. Through the long-planned expansion—currently 
delayed due to recent events—that is at the heart of the health vision, 
AUB will continue to recruit, retain, and mentor the finest physicians, 
nurses, and health specialists to ensure the well-being of both the 
patients and populations we serve. 
Ensuring that the AUB campus is a safe, equitable, and inclusive space 
has been of the utmost importance since day one. The Taskforce on the 
Lives and Careers of Women at AUB, which was made into a standing 
committee in 2018, is charged with developing an action plan to improve 
the lives and careers of women faculty, students, and staff. AUB also 
launched Accessibility for a Bolder Learning Experience (ABLE) to work 
towards implementing digital accessibility in higher education.Preparing AUB students to be engaged citizens and 
leaders in their communities is another top priority. 
The Center for Civic Engagement and Community Service 
continues to garner international recognition, such as the 
MacJannet Prize for Global Citizenship, for its model of 
transformative leadership education and service learning. 
AUB also launched #AUB4Refugees as a university-wide 
initiative to nurture cooperation and build partnerships 
on- and off-campus to deal with the repercussions and 
effects of this ongoing crisis.
One of the roles that a university fulfills is to empower 
its community to develop and grow innovative ideas to 
solve pressing local, regional, and global social issues. 
Toward this end, AUB celebrated the inauguration 
of the Talal and Madiha Zein AUB Innovation Park 
(AUB -iPark) in September 2019. AUB-iPark will provide all 
AUB faculty and students with invaluable opportunities 
to develop innovative ideas into profitable and scalable 
startups. This far-reaching initiative will position AUB at 
the heart of an emerging entrepreneurship ecosystem 
that is so important to the future of Lebanon. It will also 
create opportunities for the next generation to propel the 
knowledge economy of the region, thereby elevating and 
diversifying the Lebanese economy. This is an important 
part of our vision for the future of AUB and for Lebanon.      “As a physician, I found 
that my fellow health 
professionals from AUB 
always ranked in the top 
echelons of our field…
After a while, I came to 
realize that the name AUB 
was synonymous with 
outstanding and world 
class.”
– Howard Koh (Hon. DHL 2018)
      “Our primary role as 
educational institutions is to 
form ethical leaders capable 
of serving their society.”
– José Zaglul, TrusteeFROM INAUGURAL VISION TO VITAL 2030  7 6  VITAL 2030
Finally, strengthening and enhancing the connection 
between AUB alumni and their alma mater has been a 
primary goal from the beginning. In addition to meeting 
directly with alumni around the world, the Worldwide 
Alumni Association of AUB (WAAAUB) was completely 
restructured and the university finalized an agreement 
with the AUB Alumni Association (AAA), two landmark 
accomplishments that should have a great positive 
impact on the relationship between AUB and its 
stellar  graduates.
These and many other initiatives and achievements 
over the past four years are merely the starting point. 
They were the foundation upon which the new vision for 
AUB—VITAL 2030—will grow and develop.
      “We carry with us now 
significant cosmic values of 
respecting others opinions, 
transparency, integrity, 
accepting people of different 
races, religious backgrounds, 
and we carry revolutionary 
ideas to transform our world for 
a better tomorrow.”
– Kelvin Kimani (MS ’19)VITAL 2030  – 
HOW IT ADAPTED
By its very nature, VITAL 2030 was created to overcome unforeseeable 
challenges and crises, both internally and externally. Having the right structure 
in place has enabled us to be very quick and agile in prioritizing which 
strategies to put on hold and which to push forward. VITAL 2030 – HOW IT ADAPTED  9 8  VITAL 2030
Starting late 2019, this new vision for AUB had to be adapted in response to the disruptions and 
instabilities associated with the deterioration of the Lebanese economy, the October 17 uprising, 
and later with the COVID-19 lockdown and an imminent global recession. This confluence of 
calamities has already started to have permanent effects on higher education and the healthcare 
sector. In fact, many experts are predicting the demise of swathes of higher education business. 
That is why everyone at AUB, including deans, directors and senior administrators, has been 
working assiduously, around the clock, to come up with a plan that will allow the university to 
survive the next several years, and to ensure that we can again thrive in the longer term.
Discussions with chairs and other leaders have focused on exploring every aspect of every 
program, its viability, and its importance to the future of the university and to our students, 
faculty, staff, and alumni. We have continued to look everywhere for savings, including a reduction 
in capital expenditure, travel, and many other areas. We have reviewed student outcomes, 
employability, staffing plans, financial papers, rental agreements, purchases of equipment and 
materials, and the flow of funds. This has allowed us to define a process that has been driven 
forward in a series of inclusive meetings involving all our constituencies. The process will culminate 
in the finalization of the university’s budget.
Ultimately, the goal is to become a leaner, more efficient, and more sustainable university. We must 
ascertain in a relatively limited period of time what are the most fundamentally critical programs we 
have at AUB that allow us to empower and educate leaders, create and implement groundbreaking 
research, and serve the community, country, and region in a transformative way. Anything that is 
not deemed mission essential will likely prove to be a luxury that AUB can no longer afford. MISSION , VISION ,  
AND CORE VALUES
AUB’s strategic planning framework is underpinned by the university’s 
mission statement which was adopted in 2005. 
Mission Statement
 The American University of Beirut (AUB) is an institution of higher learning 
founded to provide excellence in education, to participate in the advancement 
of knowledge through research, and to serve the peoples of the Middle East 
and beyond. Chartered in New York State in 1863, the university bases its 
educational philosophy, standards, and practices on the American liberal arts 
model of higher education. The university believes deeply in and encourages 
freedom of thought and expression and seeks to foster tolerance and respect 
for diversity and dialogue. Graduates will be individuals committed to creative 
and critical thinking, life-long learning, personal integrity, civic responsibility, 
and leadership.MISSION, VISION, AND  CORE  VALUES   11 10   VITAL 2030
New Vision Statement (Proposed)
Although the institutional mission statement contains aspirational 
elements that speak of AUB’s lasting effect on graduates, the university 
has not to-date developed a vision statement that specifies the impact 
which it seeks to have on the wider world on completing its mission. An 
earlier version of the following vision statement was proposed to the 
Board of Trustees and the AUB community in November 2017 , following 
a broad consultative process. The administration intends to put the 
statement before the Board for formal approval at a future meeting.  
The American University of Beirut aspires to be a unique global 
institution of higher education that stands out as a powerful role model, 
one which prepares ethical leaders for just, peaceful, resilient, and 
relevant societies. The university serves the peoples of the Middle East 
and beyond by sharing our common values of freedom of thought and 
expression, tolerance, honesty, and respect for diversity and dialogue, 
and by providing opportunities for all of its community members, 
including those less fortunate. AUB strives to improve all aspects and 
stages of the human condition through teaching, service, and research, 
and by preparing students as impactful and empowered citizens who 
play a transformative role in addressing the challenges that communities 
and individuals face at a global, regional, and local level.Core Values (Proposed)
Dialogue and group meetings will also be held with all 
stakeholders to affirm the institutional core values and 
align them across AUB campus and the medical center. 
These core values will be validated keeping in mind the 
AUB mission and draft vision statements. 
Following is a proposed list of AUB core values:
      “AUB has thrived and 
continues to thrive precisely 
because it embodies and 
conveys to successor 
generations the core values 
of humanity, and the essence 
of human knowledge.”
– Hussein Ibish,  
Senior Resident Scholar 
at The Arab Gulf States 
Institute  in Washington• Accountability
• Cooperation
• Diversity 
• Empathy
• Equity
• Integrity
• Respect
• TransparencyMISSION, VISION, AND  CORE  VALUES   13 12   VITAL 2030
DRIVING FORCES AND INFLUENCES
As we seek to ensure a future for AUB that is brighter, more sustainable, and 
more relevant, it has been necessary to understand our current environment 
and to look frankly and honestly at the internal and external challenges that 
we face as an institution and as a community. 
Internal Challenges
AUB is facing many internal challenges, including from its own financial model 
that has been too traditional and dependent on a limited number of revenue 
streams, such as tuition and patient fees. The fixed perimeters of the campus 
and the near doubling of the student body over the last two decades result in 
a chronic shortage of space for new building, while many facilities for faculty, 
staff, and students need major upgrades; at the medical center, the buildings 
are aging structurally and a private practice culture is taking root. A culture of 
resistance to change predominates at both the main campus and the medical 
center among certain constituencies. Other major challenges include the 
undervaluing of the humanities, a phenomenon that has and continues to 
spread throughout academia, while the growing cost of being competitive in 
sciences and engineering is putting a strain on AUB’s competitiveness in these 
areas. The university lacks strategic programs for retention and recognition 
of its employees. The rising cost of an AUB education, especially given the 
collapse of the Lebanese economy, the COVID-19 crisis, and subsequent 
global economic depression, actually provides an opening for the proliferating 
universities of varying quality in Lebanon and the region to compete 
for the best and brightest students opting for a lower quality 
education at a considerable discount for economic reasons. 
In our rapidly changing world, while many within the 
community and outside look to AUB for leadership 
and values, there is an increasing need for AUB 
to redefine its mission, enhance its relevance, 
and ensure its sustainability, as well 
as to communicate its mission and 
values effectively.
14   VITAL 2030 DRIVING FORCES AND  INFLUENCES   15
External Challenges
AUB’s host country and region present numerous challenges. Lebanon has 
a crumbling infrastructure, collapsing economy, and a dearth of suitable 
employment opportunities for its citizens and other inhabitants. Its divided 
house of politics, where regional and international actors continue to influence 
government, ranks among the world’s worst with regard to corruption, 
efficiency, environmental awareness, and sustainability. Lebanon lacks 
a substantial industry and has an underdeveloped private sector that is 
inadequately supported by a bloated and highly inefficient public sector. 
It also faces numerous environmental threats, from an absence of clean water 
and safe waste disposal to a chronic lack of electricity. Even when it has 
recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic and the global economy has started to 
revive, it will be many years before Lebanon has a sustainable economy, with 
unemployment projected to reach 70% in Lebanon towards the end of 2020.
The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has suffered through multiple 
decades of political, economic, and security instability, from the Lebanese civil 
war to the Syrian refugee crisis and war in Yemen. There are 25 million displaced 
persons in the MENA region2, with Lebanon hosting an inordinately high number 
of these, creating the largest refugees per capita population in world. 
A full half of the population in many Arab countries is under the age of 
25 and opportunities for economic and political empowerment are severely 
limited, resulting in too many young people not living up to their potential 
due to a lack of adequate education and employment. Other key social and 
other challenges in the region include: gross inequities between and within 
countries, with the Middle East leading the world in terms of the share of 
national income received by the top 10 percent of earners (61 percent)3; an exponential rise in population, currently 380 million, up from 100 million 
in 19504 and projected to reach 600 million in 20505; an increase in the 
proportion of senior populations; hosting more than 40 percent of displaced 
individuals and refugees globally; failing states and weak health systems; a lack 
of environmental sustainability; the dual burden of disease on both society 
and the individual; and the lack of personal freedom and limited engagement 
in governance. 
Research investment and capabilities are also severely lacking in most 
Arab counties, with substandard research infrastructure, low investment in 
research (0.2 percent of GDP on average in the Arab world vs. 0.7 percent 
globally and 2.7 percent average in the US over many decades), weak research 
collaborations, and significant brain drain. Indeed, the rate of return for 
students who go abroad for two years or longer seeking graduate education 
is at 4.5 percent6, among the lowest in the world. Furthermore, evidence -based 
policymaking is minimal, due to a complex policymaking environment and 
political, economic, and security instability.
Globally, higher education is becoming increasingly unaffordable for most 
people, worsening social cohesion and increasing economic disparity. 
Tuition increases have accelerated at many universities, including this 
university, in recent years. And to further increase the challenges, online 
education, while improving rapidly at AUB, plays away from many of the core 
strengths of the intensive and inspiring AUB student experience. All this puts 
AUB in danger of becoming more economically elite than it is intellectually elite 
which is a fundamental threat to the university’s mission. DRIVING FORCES AND  INFLUENCES   17 16   VITAL 2030
       “The renovation of Penrose 
Hall is one of many milestones 
in our campus master plan for 
a more sustainable and vibrant 
campus.” 
Mary Jaber Nachar, 
AVP  for Administration 
and Chief of Staff
CAMPUS MASTER   
PLAN  2030CAMPUS MASTER  PLAN 2030  19 18   VITAL 2030
and concluded with the Board of Trustees meeting during which the findings of 
the final master plan were shared and discussed. The goal of this project was to 
envision the physical structures and planning discipline necessary to significantly 
enhance the academic and organizational vision of the institution, while taking 
into account the university’s geographical and social context. The project scope 
and delivery was enabled through the generous donation of services from 
Dar Al -Handasah and Trustee Talal Shair.
The campus master plan for 2030 has advanced four pivotal strategic 
priorities. The first involves recognition of the strategic relationship between 
the socioeconomic vitality of Lebanon and the academic programs, research 
portfolio, and clinical services of AUB as the country’s foremost research university. 
The second priority addresses the fundamental requirement to enhance the 
value and quality of the AUB experience on a continuous basis. The third priority 
focuses on the urgent need to improve substantially the sustainability of AUB, 
its host city Beirut, and its host country Lebanon. The fourth priority addresses 
the critical infrastructure needs of AUB in order to support the fulfillment of its 
research mission.
Given the accelerating pace of Lebanon’s economic meltdown, the COVID-19 
pandemic, and the expected global economic depression, implementation of the 
priority projects identified by the campus master plan was put on hold, except for 
a few projects that were already underway. The latest campus master plan7 concept has been 
devised to support the university’s strategic mission 
and vision within a framework of future campus 
development, with a view to optimizing open space 
and improving circulation and infrastructure. The plan 
seeks to safeguard current assets, while strengthening 
integration, connectivity, and accessibility, at the same 
time as exploring the neighborhood and accommodating 
the AUB community within scaled approaches at varying 
degrees of concentration, intensity, and distribution. 
This campus master plan is critically important to ensure 
that the campus grows both strategically and sustainably 
and that it can support the needs of a world -class 
research university. VITAL 2030 and the campus 
master plan for 2030 were developed in tandem with 
multi -stakeholder engagement, with each framework 
able to inform the other, while also taking into account 
the objectives of the five-year $650 million BOLDLY AUB 
capital campaign.  
Work on the campus master plan began in March 2016. 
The planning process was informed by inclusive 
charrettes with the various stakeholders on campus CAMPUS MASTER PLAN 2030   21 20   VITAL 2030
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORKVITALSTRATEGIC FRAMEWORK  
2030STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK   23
VITAL stands for:
 V Valuing our community and sharing our values
 I Integrating a humanities, technology, and purpose-based education across all disciplines
 T Transforming the university experience
 A Advancing a world-class research agenda
 L Life: Lifting the quality of health and medicine across our region
These themes were linked to the strategic priorities of earlier retreats (October 2016, October 2017 , and February 2018). 
They represent the main, high-level business strategies that form the basis for the institution’s business model. Themes 
are broad in scope and define the major strategic thrusts the institution will pursue in order to achieve its vision. Goals 
are the stepping stones for achieving these strategic themes and tend to be long-term targets. Objectives have a shorter 
timeframe and represent the activities that need to be accomplished to reach the strategic goals. Finally, each objective 
has actionable strategies and an operational plan to successfully implement and measure progress8.
After working groups made up of members of the senior leadership team identified relevant goals, objectives, and 
strategies for each theme, the VITAL 2030 draft plan was presented to the Board of Trustees in November 2018. 
In order to benchmark with peer universities and to develop an actionable strategic plan, we carried out a wide 
assessment of a broad group of aspirational and peer institutional strategic plans9-17. It was essential to identify the 
resources that each goal and objective might require, whether in terms of people, time, space, technology, and funding. 
A template was developed and shared with the assigned working groups which identified the entities responsible 
for implementing each action, the date by which it is expected to be completed, and the measures used to assess 
completion of the action, i.e. key performance indicators (KPIs). STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK –  
VITAL 2030
      “Over the past twenty years, 
I have watched with admiration 
this wonderful institution 
achieve a remarkable recovery 
and then thrive well beyond 
recovery into a leading position 
among universities in this part 
of the world. More than ever, 
AUB today offers global value as 
an oasis of vigorous academic 
pursuits and of intellectual 
exchange between many 
cultures and traditions.”
– George Helou (Hon. DHL 2018)The result of three years of intensive engagement with 
stakeholders across the institution, the new draft strategic 
vision seeks to ensure AUB’s future success, relevance, 
and sustainability over the next decade and beyond.
Strategic planning retreats began in October 2016 with 
the senior leadership team including deans, VPs, AVPs, 
and directors. Over the course of four in-depth retreats, 
the team identified internal and external challenges, 
conducted situational analyses, and incorporated the 
vision and priorities of the proposed campus master 
plan. Throughout this process, other stakeholders—
faculty, staff, students, and alumni—were engaged to 
define and refine the developing goals and objectives. 
During the June 2018 retreat, VITAL 2030 was proposed 
as AUB’s draft strategic vision. 
VITAL is a mnemonic for five themes, which allow the 
university to focus energy and resources, strengthen 
operations strategically, bring all stakeholders together 
towards common goals, establish agreement around 
intended outcomes, and course-correct when necessary.STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  25 24   VITAL 2030
Communication of VITAL 2030
AUB’s strategic vision and priorities, VITAL 2030, was communicated to the 
whole community through a series of activities, starting with a presentation 
to the Board of Trustees in November 2018. This was followed by two faculty-
staff town hall meetings in December 2018 and a Senate presentation 
in January 2019. On February 2, 2019, a special issue of the President’s 
Perspective was dedicated for VITAL 2030. The President’s Perspective 
reaches an audience of approximately 60,000 people and is widely read by 
alumni around the world as well as by the on-campus community.
VITAL -  
Strategic Themes, Goals, and  Objectives
Over a period of six months, from March to August 2019, the baton was taken 
up again by the five working groups, which were set the substantial task of 
clarifying elements within the strategic themes and fleshing them out into 
operational plans. Those plans were then presented for final approval by the 
Strategic Planning Steering Committee which was established to develop and 
monitor the strategic planning process and to ensure that the plan is being 
implemented in a timely manner.
Elements of the five strategic themes are detailed below. 
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  27 26   VITAL 2030
V
Strategic Theme V: 
Valuing our Community 
and  Sharing our Values
AUB’s mission statement speaks about excellence, advancing 
knowledge, and service, our foundation in American liberal arts 
education, freedom of thought and expression, tolerance, respect for 
diversity, and dialogue. It concludes with the aspirational statement 
that our graduates will be committed to creative and critical 
thinking, life-long learning, personal integrity, civic responsibility, 
and leadership. This first priority is about “walking the walk,” as the 
saying goes, so that every aspect of our shared mission is translated 
into measurable reality.
The university needs to distill its common core values—integrity, 
accountability, diversity, transparency, equity, etc.—and do more to 
affirm them in everyday practice. 
       “This university sits at a global 
crossroads, between the Levant 
and Mediterranean, between 
Africa, Europe, and Southwest Asia, 
between the glory of the ancient 
world and our hopes for a future of 
greater wisdom and greater peace. 
That’s a legacy to honor, and one 
I know AUB will live up to.”
– Reeta Roy (Hon. DHL 2019)28   VITAL 2030
VThe core values must be validated and shared externally 
as well as internally, to enhance and communicate 
AUB’s relevance in the world. AUB values are key to 
building partnerships, critical assessment of programs, 
and seeking alignment and avoiding duplication. 
Upholding our values will steer AUB to becoming 
more academically elite and less economically elite by 
expanding scholarships, diversifying revenue streams, 
and tapping new philanthropic resources. The university 
must assure the sustainability of its strategic path and 
values and manage future growth accordingly.
As part of its commitment to build and strengthen 
its strategic partnerships, AUB is currently working 
on a proposal to serve as a catalyzing force to guide 
Mastercard Foundation university partners in Africa to 
lead impactful community development interventions, 
thus promoting dignified livelihoods for marginalized 
refugee and host community youth, while simultaneously 
preparing African youth as the next generation of 
transformative leaders. Based on its successful models, 
AUB will provide technical assistance and guidance to 
select university partners to establish university civic 
engagement centers capable of implementing strategic 
community development interventions.
       “As AUB faculty, we are and we 
see ourselves as a community that 
upholds the virtues of excellence, 
collegiality and diversity, and one 
that is committed to the education 
of tomorrow’s citizens and leaders.” 
– Nadia El Cheikh, Dean, 
Faculty of Arts and Sciences
1Goal
  AFFIRM COMMON CORE VALUES 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY. 
Objectives:
• Develop core values and align them across AUB.
• Communicate and educate community about 
AUB core values.With the existential challenge that AUB is facing 
because of the multifold crises in Lebanon and the 
global COVID-19 emergency, focus is being redirected 
towards increasing donations and grant allocations; 
establishing solidarity funds for students, patients, and 
staff; and conducting a critical assessment of existing 
and new programs in terms of relevance, impact, and 
sustainability. 
On the communication front, the COVID-19 Studio 
AUB-Annahar has been launched in an effort to redress 
the “infodemic” of misleading reports and social media 
memes around the pandemic. This studio is a twice-
weekly Facebook and YouTube webcast in Arabic 
providing analysis of the outbreak’s progress in Lebanon 
and its socio-political ramifications. We have also 
launched an English-language Facebook platform for our 
global community under the banner of our existing Beirut 
Briefings program. This will open a window onto the 
situation in Lebanon and the region through the eyes of 
our experts and researchers.STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  31 30   VITAL 2030
2Goal
  ENHANCE AND COMMUNICATE 
OUR RELEVANCE.
Objectives:
• Foster research, programs, public policies, 
and community service projects that support 
AUB’s  mission.
• Ensure programs and outreach activities are relevant, 
impactful, and grounded in our core values.
4Goal
  ASSURE SUSTAINABILITY 
OF STRATEGIC PATH AND VALUES.
Objectives:
• Ensure programs, teachings, research, and 
service remain up-to-date, competitive, and 
aligned with our values.
• Strengthen community outreach. 
• Diversify and strengthen revenue streams. 
3
Goal
  THRIVE MORE AS ACADEMICALLY ELITE 
AND LESS AS ECONOMICALLY ELITE.
Objectives:
• Grow school and center endowments.
• Grow endowments for financial aid for students coming 
from underrepresented areas.
• Continue to attract highly motivated students with 
strong academic track records through financial aid 
or merit scholarships.
5Goal
  MANAGE STRATEGIC GROWTH IN 
ALIGNMENT WITH MISSION AND VALUES.
Objectives:
• Prioritize university growth on- and off-campus in a way that 
is sustainable and consistent with our core values.
• Provide life-long learning programs to the region and beyond.
• Provide distance and e-learning programs, academic and professional.
V
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  33 32   VITAL 2030
IStrategic Theme I: 
Integrating a Humanities, 
Technology, and Purpose‑Based 
Education across All Disciplines
AUB must provide its students with knowledge that is as deep as it is 
wide and for this it must innovate in pedagogy and develop the best 
possible curriculum consistent with AUB values to create additional 
opportunities wherever they are identified. The university must ensure 
students are strong communicators in a widening range of media 
they need to master in an evolving professional landscape. The key will 
be to continue the move away from the one-way street that considers 
students as vessels to be filled with knowledge and towards enabling 
collaborative and engaged learning and working environments that 
will allow them to excel in the world outside.
       “What if AUB never existed? Where would we be, as Arabs, 
Lebanese and many other nationalities in this world?  I see success 
stories all over the globe and the primary reason? An education that 
makes you think, analyze, be critical of your own prejudices and train 
you to be a leader in this global society.” 
– Talal Shair, Trustee34   VITAL 2030
 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  35
IAn essential element of this plan is to 
advance e-learning strategies at AUB and 
enhance its digital capabilities. For this 
purpose, a working group was formed 
with a mandate to assess the landscape, 
appetite, acceptance, and recognition 
for online education at the university. 
The working group will also assess 
in-house capabilities, identify strategic 
partners, and evaluate cost structures 
to augment AUB capabilities and build 
high-quality online courses and programs 
economically and cost -effectively to 
ensure the long-term success of the 
program. Additionally, AUB is working 
on securing funds to enhance its digital 
capabilities in all areas involved in a 
student’s journey through the university, 
including student recruitment and 
admissions, the delivery of learning, 
student support services, and research or 
experiential  activities.This requires real innovation in teaching. We envision 
a more advanced e-learning strategy; thematic 
cross- disciplinary courses all over campus; computer 
coding and technological literacy as part of the learning 
experience; theater to enhance communication skills, 
cultural exchange, and self-confidence; cross-disciplinary 
team-based entrepreneurship; promoting healthy 
lifestyles; and creating adaptive learning spaces for 
multimodal learning. We need to go out and create the 
world that we want to live in, and we need to re -imagine 
our own campus to make it more open, creating 
amenities here to engage the public and celebrate the 
arts, theater, and music, transmitting the potency of our 
mission and message to all.
With the impossibility of teaching and learning in a 
classroom setting that arose first during the October 
2019 uprising and then during the COVID-19 lockdown, 
AUB worked on developing an academic continuity 
plan that allows the continuation of academic activities 
as much as possible and mitigates the effects of a 
significant disruption with serious academic and financial 
consequences. 
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  37 36   VITAL 2030
I
6Goal
  PROVIDE AUB STUDENTS WITH KNOWLEDGE, 
SKILLS, AND ABILITIES THAT ARE DEEP 
AND WIDE.
Objectives:
• Prepare students to develop their abilities to ask what problems are 
worth solving.
• Enable students to understand critical contemporary questions within 
and across disciplines.
• Create self-designed/flexible degree programs that allow integration 
of knowledge and skills across various disciplines.
7
Goal
  ENSURE GRADUATES ARE LITERATE IN DATA, 
COMPUTING, AND TECHNOLOGY.
Objectives:
• Prepare students to use technology effectively to access, integrate, 
and communicate information.
• Have students use data, computing, and technology tools to solve 
real world problems.
8Goal
  ENABLE A COLLABORATIVE AND 
ENGAGED WORKING AND LEARNING 
ENVIRONMENT.
Objectives:
• Integrate community based/experiential/service 
opportunities in teaching and learning experience.
• Provide accessibility for distance learning to drive 
more inclusion and diversity.
• Enhance infrastructure to support team work and 
innovative teaching. 
9
Goal
  ENSURE AUB STUDENTS ARE 
STRONG COMMUNICATORS IN 
MULTIPLE MEDIA.
Objectives:
• Enhance students’ abilities in verbal, written, and 
visual communication skills.
• Use various media and communication platforms. 
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  39 38   VITAL 2030
T
       “I believe more than ever in the transformative 
power of education in fostering freedom of thought 
and expression and creating a society that values 
civic responsibility and international relationships.” 
– Dame Nemat Shafik, Hon. DHL 2018Strategic Theme T: 
Transforming 
the University  Experience
AUB seeks to transform itself by providing an innovative and progressive 
campus-wide experience for students, building more fulfilling lives for faculty, 
and creating a happy and productive culture among AUB staff, while more 
actively engaging our incredible corpus of 70,000 alumni. This requires 
the redesign of classrooms, renovation of dorms, restructuring our alumni 
association (WAAAUB), encouraging sport for all, recreating transformative 
teaching opportunities outside the classroom, and planning upgrades for 
faculty and postgraduate housing and a student center to provide a nerve 
center for student life. 40   VITAL 2030
 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  41
The creation of a more engaging AUB culture will be founded on two-way 
communication, through open forums like traditional town halls as well as bespoke 
briefings and Q&As. The AUB community needs to hear not only from the president, 
but also its distinguished university board, leadership, faculty, students, staff, and 
alumni, all of whom already serve as exceptional ambassadors and advocates both 
inside and outside the university. In addition, survey data is needed to listen and 
learn from all constituencies, with new platforms for feedback and consultation, 
new ways to express appreciation to hard-working faculty and staff, and new 
opportunities for AUB students in these difficult times. 
To help combat the increased stress during the COVID-19 crisis, mental health 
support initiatives have been launched for our faculty, staff, and students, and the 
broader AUB community. Weekly online support group sessions are offered for 
faculty and staff. Students are engaged through various initiatives, including remote 
individual counseling support, a support group for dorm residents, peer support, 
and workshops on how to succeed during the lockdown. Virtual psychological 
group sessions, individual counseling, and psychiatric evaluation are offered as 
well to patients and their families. 
Addressing the anxiety of students over grades during this unprecedented global 
crisis, the AUB leadership, Board of Deans, and University Senate have made 
available a pass/no-pass alternative to traditional numeric or letter grading for the 
spring 2020 semester, which was devised by the expanded Council of Associate 
Deans (eCAD). Employing the same student-centered approach, eCAD has also 
worked on an alternative to ensure the fair testing and evaluation of course learning 
without recourse to traditional, in-person final exams.
10Goal
  PROVIDE INNOVATIVE AND PROGRESSIVE CAMPUS-WIDE 
EXPERIENCE FOR STUDENTS.
Objectives:
• Improve student services and facilities.  
• Promote the principles of inclusion, diversity, and equity.
• Upgrade facilities to be more inclusive and conducive for education and research.
• Assess and improve effectiveness and impact of student support programs.
11
Goal
  MOTIVATE FACULTY AND STAFF AS THE MAIN DRIVING 
FORCE FOR TRANSFORMING THE UNIVERSITY EXPERIENCE.
Objectives:
• Strengthen trust between faculty/staff and administration. 
• Foster a culture of transparency, equity, and diversity.
12
Goal
  ENHANCE ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT. 
Objectives:
• Engage alumni more actively with students, faculty, and staff at AUB.
• Enhance alumni participation in alumni activities.
• Increase alumni philanthropic giving to AUB.
TSTRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  43 42   VITAL 2030
A
       “The caliber of scholarship 
at AUB has been growing over 
the last 15 years, thus the time 
is right to reinstate tenure and 
propel AUB forward as a world-
class research university.” 
– Huda Zoghbi, TrusteeStrategic Theme A: 
Advancing a World ‑Class 
Research Agenda
AUB seeks to advance its research agenda, ensure world-class results, 
and empower researchers to produce ever more impactful and relevant 
research. In order to build on AUB’s global reputation for outstanding 
basic and translational research it must upgrade research infrastructure 
and administration, establish consistent models of impact through 
centers of research excellence, set university-level interdisciplinary 
research themes, find new ways to make research accessible to 
a wider audience, and provide more human and financial resources 
for research. 
44   VITAL 2030
 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  45
The university seeks to compete at a world-class level in a number of areas, 
across the arts and humanities, social, natural and technological sciences, 
agriculture and nutrition, medicine, health, nursing, engineering and 
architecture, and business and finance. Defining those areas of research, 
and developing our undergraduate and graduate research programs where 
AUB can excel while developing a sustainable strategy for growth and for 
excellence will define AUB’s reputation, relevance, and sustainability for 
several generations.  
During the COVID-19 crisis, research at AUB has shifted focus towards 
exploring the challenges and opportunities posed by the pandemic. 
The COVID-19 Research Brown Bag Series is a perfect example. The series 
aims to provide an informal platform for faculty members across a wide variety 
of disciplines to exchange ideas, initiate collaborations, and trigger joint 
projects in response to the pandemic and its consequences. Another example 
is related to encouraging faculty members to bring in more external grants to 
cover a portion of their salaries in USD. 
A
13
Goal
  ENHANCE ENABLERS FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE 
AND INNOVATION.
Objectives:
• Improve support for research and innovation.
• Attract top faculty and students.
14Goal
  ENHANCE AUB’S RESEARCH IDENTITY TO BE MORE 
IMPACTFUL, LOCALLY AND REGIONALLY RELEVANT, AND 
INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED FOR MULTI-DISCIPLINARY 
EXCELLENCE.
Objectives:
• Strengthen and integrate impactful centers of research excellence, research chairs, 
and professorships.
• Advance thematic and cross-disciplinary research agenda. 
15
Goal
  IMPROVE RESEARCH TRANSPARENCY 
AND KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER.
Objective:
• Nurture research accessibility, inclusiveness, and dissemination.STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  47 46   VITAL 2030
LStrategic Theme L: 
Life: Lifting the quality of 
health and medicine across 
our region 
AUB seeks to build on its longstanding dedication to lifting the 
quality of health and medicine locally, regionally, and globally. The 
university will do this by building capacity for health professionals 
in all disciplines and developing innovative business models for 
expanding healthcare delivery and research by developing state-
of-the-art technologies to support human and ecosystem health 
and research. It will foster internal partnerships for collaboration 
and build local, regional, and international ties to facilitate health 
education and research. 
We aim to position AUB as the leading hub for both clinical and population health in the Global South. The university 
plans to develop and support a group of leaders who can make a difference here in the Arab world, where there exists a 
real shortage of high-quality practitioners. It also seeks to develop a cross cutting health sciences community that spans 
across AUB’s seven faculties and reaches out to key partner institutions of higher education and foundations with shared 
and compatible visions for an inclusive, sustainable future. We will take a holistic, cradle to grave, approach to health, 
focusing on mental health, nutrition and food sciences, health needs of vulnerable populations, while integrating 
this with our world class medical and nursing care delivery system.
All of these plans were transformed with the advent of the economic crisis and COVID-19 pandemic. 
We are now exploring how to leverage new revenue-generating activities such as telemedicine. 
We are clinically responding to the pandemic through our state-of-the-art Pandemic Evaluation 
Clinic and Center (PECC), which was completed back in March 2020 and in just under 10 days. 
AUB faculties have also risen up to the occasion and responded to the pandemic 
through a range of initiatives. For example, the Maroun Semaan Faculty of 
Engineering and Architecture has established a COVID-19 FabLab (fabrication 
laboratory) to design, build, and validate personal protective equipment 
(PPE) and ventilators. In the Faculty of Health Sciences, our scholars 
are focusing on ways to build community resilience and solidarity, 
adopting a community-based approach to prevent exposure, 
flatten the curve, and help society rebound as efficiently 
as possible after the end of this crisis. At the Faculty of 
Agricultural and Food Sciences, they are focused on 
primary resources security in Lebanon, where 
water, food, and energy were in a state 
of fragility even before the pandemic. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  49 48   VITAL 2030
L
16Goal
  BUILD CAPACITY FOR SKILLED AND 
COMPETENT HEALTH PROFESSIONALS. 
Objectives:
• Build and expand interdisciplinary programs.
• Improve and build on excellence in existing academic 
programs.
• Promote and provide inter-professional and continuing 
education, training, and professional development to 
meet local, regional, and global needs.
• Build leadership and workforce capacity in 
health -related specialties. 
17
Goal
  DEVELOP A NOVEL, SUSTAINABLE 
BUSINESS MODEL FOR THE EXPANSION 
OF DELIVERING CLINICAL SERVICES, LOCALLY 
AND REGIONALLY.
Objectives:
• Provide financially sustainable clinical delivery at AUBMC 
and beyond.  
• Extend clinical care to under-represented communities by 
increasing funds for economically disadvantaged patients.
18Goal
  DEVELOP AN INNOVATIVE, ACADEMIC, AND 
DEVELOPMENTAL MODEL FOR PROMOTING 
HEALTH AND LINKING IT TO CLINICAL DELIVERY.
Objectives:
• Develop interdisciplinary programs and/or activities to protect and 
promote health (e.g. environmental health, smoking cessation, 
healthy lifestyles, mental health).
• Identify strategies and sources to support sustainable academic 
health programs.
• Initiate resilient programs to respond to and address regional 
instabilities.
• Build a network of leading institutions with shared goals and values.
       “Health literacy is so important. We want to bring all 
patients to the point where they are deeply interested 
and engaged. As physicians, we need to partner with 
our patients — the more involved they are in their care, 
the better.” 
– William Zoghbi, MD, TrusteeSTRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  51 50   VITAL 2030
L
19Goal
  DEVELOP AND EMPLOY 
STATE- OF-THE-ART 
TECHNOLOGIES TO SUPPORT 
HUMAN AND ECOSYSTEM HEALTH.
Objectives:
• Develop inclusive strategy for an integrated 
human and ecosystem health model. 
• Enhance use of modern technology to train and 
educate health and ecosystem professionals, 
including simulation, e-learning, and clinical 
care provision.
• Develop innovative strategies for product 
development and testing in collaboration with 
iPark and among faculties.
20Goal
  ENHANCE INTEGRATION AND COLLABORATION 
AMONG INTERNAL UNITS, HEALTH AND OTHER, 
TO ACHIEVE THE AUB-WIDE HEALTH VISION.
Objectives:
• Develop integrated plan for AUB-wide health vision.
• Define and promote organizational structure and governance of health to 
broaden and solidify stakeholder engagement.
• Develop, enhance, and expand interdisciplinary academic and service 
programs. 
21
Goal
  BUILD LOCAL, REGIONAL, AND INTERNATIONAL 
PARTNERSHIPS TO PROMOTE HUMAN AND ECOSYSTEM 
HEALTH, CREATE AND DISSEMINATE KNOWLEDGE, 
AND SUPPORT SDG IMPLEMENTATION.  
Objectives:
• Continuously assess and set health priorities and needs of the country and 
region.
• Enhance health science knowledge to policy dialogue and implementation.
• Contribute to rebuilding the health ecosystem in conflict and disaster areas 
of the region.
• Support national and regional efforts towards achieving SDGs in accordance 
with the health vision.
       “Our faculty believes that the key to greater success 
and continuous growth and long -term impact is to look 
at it as a whole, as a unified living organism.” 
– Iman Nuwayhid, Dean, Faculty of Health SciencesSTRATEGIC FRAMEWORK – VITAL 2030  53 52   VITAL 2030
IMPLEMENTATION  
AND FOLLOW-UP
From Strategy to Operation18
To ensure that our strategic plan is guiding the operations of the rest of the 
institution, we linked VITAL 2030 to the faculty/division/department strategic 
plans and strategies. In September and October 2019, extensive sessions 
were held with business units to map their own goals, objectives, and 
strategies to those of VITAL. 
The resulting operational plans reflect the timeframe for completing the 
strategies as well as the measures to be used to assess performance, 
i.e. key performance indicators (KPIs). Another essential component 
of the plans involves identifying the resources that each initiative might 
require, whether in terms of people, time, space, technology, and funding. 
Those capital needs will be reflected in the capital budget of the business 
units, thus  linking budgeting to planning. IMPLEMENTATION AND  FOLLOW-UP   55 54   VITAL 2030
Strategic Planning Committee18
A Strategic Planning Committee was established to provide oversight for the 
institutional strategic planning process and ensure that the plan is being 
implemented in alignment with the campus master plan and in a timely manner. AUB Values in Times of Stress 
and  Hope 
As already mentioned, the 2019-20 academic year has 
witnessed many disruptions and instabilities from the 
October 17 uprising to the economic collapse and now the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Since VITAL is a very ambitious plan 
developed before these disruptions, it is very realistic to ask 
whether we should concentrate on surviving the next two years 
rather than planning to ensure our future success, relevance, 
and sustainability in the 2030s and beyond. But in fact, these 
challenges make it all the more imperative that we set our sights 
on the big ideas that will have the most far -reaching impact. 
Part of that vision must be to radically revitalize and transform 
a formula that has run its course. We produce the best 
educated graduates in the region, no doubt. But what is the 
point if growing numbers of them are compelled to leave their 
homelands and their value to the society they grew up in is 
lost. Part of the solution is to increase both our online and 
experiential education, playing to our strengths in a global 
market, serving a wider range of students for whom AUB is 
currently inaccessible, and opening new revenue streams so 
we can invest in future educational and research excellence. The main functions of this committee include:
a. Approving the institutional strategic plan. 
b. Receiving progress reports on the strategic plan 
implementation (mid-year and annual).
c. Assessing progress towards implementation of the strategies.
d. Conducting periodic review of the overall strategic plan 
based on performance and introducing potential revisions 
as needed.
e. Ensuring strategic planning is done at two main levels:
• Institutional: through VITAL and its related goals, 
objectives, and strategies. 
• Operational: faculty/division/department plans that align 
with and link to the institutional plan.
f. Reviewing the strategic KPIs dashboard and making 
recommendations accordingly.
IMPLEMENTATION AND  FOLLOW-UP   57 56   VITAL 2030
To affirm its plans for moving forward during these difficult 
times, the leadership team adopted four priorities that link 
to AUB’s core values:
1. Put the safety of our community first
2. Maintain unity and encourage peaceful dialogue
3. Find innovative ways of fulfilling our mission of teaching 
and advancing knowledge
4. Continue to provide world-class care for patients and 
service to communities
It was crucial to map these emerging priorities to VITAL 2030 
to ensure that our strategic planning framework is properly 
adapting in response to the ongoing crises in Lebanon and 
the region. Realignment of VITAL 2030 involved reassessing 
strategies and action plans in light of the ongoing crises and 
assigning them into one of three main categories: those that 
will continue; those that will be put on hold; and those with 
redefined scope. 
      “I am confident that, working 
together, AUB will emerge a more 
impactful, more inclusive, more 
relevant, and more sustainable 
institution. We will do everything 
we can and must to save it.”
– Fadlo R. Khuri, PresidentIMPLEMENTATION AND  FOLLOW-UP   59 58   VITAL 2030
REFERENCES
1. Fadlo R. Khuri. Presidential Inauguration Ceremony Speech (2016).
2. UNHCR Global Report (2019), Global Trends, Forced Displacement In 2019.
3. World Inequality Database https://wir2018.wid.world/executive-summary.html
4. Population Reference Bureau annual report;  
https://www.prb.org/populationtrendsandchallengesinthemiddleeastandnorthafrica/
5. UNDP; https://www.undp.org/content/dam/rbas/report/Population%20Levels,Trends.pdf
6. http://english.alarabiya.net/en/special-reports/world-government-summit-
2016/2016/02/10/95-of-Arab-students-who-study-abroad-do-not-return-home.html
7. American University of Beirut, Master Plan Stage 3: Concept Master Plan.
8. Goldman, Charles A. and Hanine Salem (2015), Getting the Most Out of University Strategic 
Planning: Essential Guidance for Success and Obstacles to Avoid. Santa Monica, CA: 
RAND  Corporation.
9. Carnegie Mellon University Strategic Plan (2025).
10. Eastern Washington University Strategic Plan (2018-2023).
11. Northwestern University Strategic Plan (2011).
12. Queen’s University Strategic Framework (2014-2019).
13. Strategic Planning: the ultimate guide to preparing, creating, and deploying your strategy;  
https://www.clearpointstrategy.com
14. University of Cambridge Strategic Plan (2016–21).
15. University of Edinburgh Strategic Plan (2012-2016).
16. University of Helsinki Strategic Plan (2017-2020).
17. University of Oxford Strategic Plan (2018–23).
18. Hinton Karen E. (2012), A Practical Guide to Strategic Planning in Higher Education, 
Society for College and University Planning.REFERENCES   61 60   VITAL 2030
Office of the President
American University of Beirut
PO Box 11-0236, Riad El Solh  
Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon  
Tel: +961-1-374444   
Fax: +961-1-744469 
AUB New York Office  
American University of Beirut  
3 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, 8th Floor  
New York, NY 10017-2303, USA 
www.aub.edu.lb
