GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
Georg-August-Universität Göttingen is 
one of Germany’s leading universities, acknowledged throughout the world for its excellent research, and  for attracting 
outstanding academics and students from Germany and abroad. Standing in a rich and vibrant tradition embracing the principles of the Enlightenment and autonomy, the University makes a valu-able contribution to the advancement of knowledge and to overcoming the  societal challenges of the 21st century, 
pursuing these aims in an active and competent, creative and responsible manner.
Equally committed to research and to 
teaching, the University can be present-ed in figures thus: 13 Faculties, 26,000 students and, together with the Univer -sity Medical Center (UMG), 12,000  employees. This includes 4,200 aca-
demic staff, 480 of whom are professors. As a Public Law Foundation, the Uni-versity and the University Medical Center Göttingen have an annual turn-over amounting to 1 billion euros.  Financial support is provided through 
the Land of Lower Saxony, third-party 
funding from various funding agencies and institutions, and Medical Center revenues.Göttingen University is the cornerstone of the Göttingen Campus, a lively and successful research and teaching  partnership with eight excellent 
non-university research institutions.  Beginning more than a decade ago, 
 cooperation agreements were conclud-
ed with the five Max Planck Institutes (for Biophysical Chemistry, Dynamics and Self-Organization, Study of Reli-gious and Ethnic Diversity, Experimen-tal Medicine and Solar System  Research), the German Primate Centre 
(Leibniz Institute for Primate Research), the German Aerospace Centre, and the Göttingen Academy of Sciences and Humanities. They joined forces to estab-lish a campus structure at the Göttingen location, a model that is exemplary for the German research system. Since 2006, all partners have been meeting to discuss and agree on mutual objectives in the Göttingen Research Council (GRC). The cooperation is based on the principle of free will and equality. It is founded on the perception that Göttin-gen can develop its full potential only through close cooperative endeavours. Science and scholarship at the Göttin-gen location benefit from outstanding third-party-funded collaborative pro-jects and from the ‘bridging’ professor -
ships between the University and the non-university research institutions. Joint postgraduate programmes and cross-institutional junior research groups are important for the advance-ment of junior researchers, this success-ful cooperation extending also into the areas of studying and teaching.  Outstanding scientific performance and 
a living and working environment char -
acterised by diversity and international-ity across the entire Campus form the essence of the ‘Göttingen Spirit’.
On behalf of the Göttingen Campus, we 
are committed to further developing joint research cooperations and regional foci and expanding the mutual use of infrastructure specific to the location. In addition to the Campus institutions  referred to above, further research insti-
tutions, institutions of higher education and private enterprises also belong to the Campus as associate partners.  Together, the partners pursue the objec-
tive of continual further development of the Göttingen Campus over the coming years, constituting a successful model example of a regional research campus.
| GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN | THE GÖTTINGEN CAMPUS
4 |  | 5
University Aula (Great Hall) Building 
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
6 |  | 7| WHERE DO WE STAND?
The strength of Georg-August-Universi-
tät Göttingen lies now – as in 1737, the year of its founding as a  reform university 
of the Enlightenment – in the fulfilment of its aspiration to link reason and knowledge pragmatically. As a compre-hensive university, it is able to span new bridges between the disciplines in  research and teaching. The  autonomy   
of a Public Law Foundation  operating 
with a well-functioning administration guarantees high efficiency, whilst offer -
ing freedom for conducting excellent individual  research and for  innovative 
 research collaborations that transcend 
subject-related, institutional and  national   
borders. Göttingen  University is com-
mitted to producing high-quality 
 research and, building on this, to deliv-
ering academic teaching that is geared to the future. Its objective is to educate and train competent,  critical and 
open-minded graduates who are espe-cially well equipped to contribute to the advancement of  science and scholar -
ship and to further our society’s sustain-able development. In a process of lively discourse across disciplines, the Uni-versity fosters the powers of judgement and critical reflection that is needed for the education of the individual, as well as for success in the scholarly and  scientific domain. 
 The interplay of tradition and innova-
tion is further reflected in its conceptual approach to the valuable university  collections, and in its pioneering strategy 
of cross-disciplinary, professional data management. The University is  realising 
its goals by providing the  freedom and 
flexibility for new ideas and innovative 
changes. Young academics are guided along their career paths in a stimulating environment characterised by diversity, with the University offering them wide-ranging support. Teaching at the Göttingen Campus is research oriented and allows scope for intellectual open-ness. The Campus is committed to indi-vidual initiatives and cross-disciplinary discourse among  researchers and stu-
dents. Moreover, with its many foreign students and visiting researchers, it sees itself as a centre for international  exchange.
Göttingen University is linked with 
 other German universities through 
 collaborative projects and, through joint 
projects and utilisation of resources, recognises particularly in its coopera-tion with its partner universities in Lower Saxony an important opportunity for overcoming future challenges.
As a significant regional economic 
 factor, Göttingen University maintains 
close links with the local and regional players in business, politics and culture. In the area of knowledge and  technology  
transfer, the University consults with these partners, as well as advising and supporting scientists and scholars with respect to patent strategies and  start-ups. 
The University implements a compre-hensive gender equality and diversity strategy. It fosters equal opportunities for all its faculty, staff and students  irrespective of gender, age, sexual 
 orientation, religion or ideology, handi-
cap or chronic disease, ethnicity and social background. Those in positions of responsibility at the University  subscribe 
to the principles of fairness, respect and 
trust, and propagate these principles in an active manner. Together with all 
 students and researchers and its 
 employees, the University thus  promotes 
a culture of successful cooperation and 
mutual esteem.
Göttingen University welcomes compe-
tition with other national and interna-tional academic and research institu-tions. Its long-term aim is to remain one of the finest German universities and to hold its place among the world’s top one hundred in prominent international rankings.
Learning and Study Building, opened in 2013
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
Göttingen University actively addresses 
the challenges of today and tomorrow. It is committed to creating the institution-al and organisational conditions  required to do so and possesses the 
courage to conduct critical self- reflection and constant renewal. On this basis, Göttingen University has identi-fied the following areas of action:
RESEARCH 
Excellent research by individuals and the interconnection of research groups within join projects are of equal impor -
tance and serve the objective of  enhancing existing strengths in research 
and further developing the University’s research profile.
TEACHING 
With a manifest research orientation, didactic quality and clear gearing to suit varying target groups, teaching at the University is designed to foster compe-tencies and communicate up-to-the-minute knowledge.
INFRASTRUCTURE 
Top-level international research and modern teaching methods call for  future-oriented infrastructures, including 
IT and digital information systems.  Synergies result when the responsible 
parties on the Campus work together in an orchestrated manner.PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT The University seeks to achieve  constant 
improvement in the opportunities for its employees regarding their individual further training and career planning. Personnel development, also in the  academic sector, is an ongoing task.  
FUNDING 
Secure basic funding is essential for any university. Additional financial room for manoeuvre is generated through acqui-sition of the largest possible volume of third-party funding and through  fundraising activities. 
COMMUNICATION 
With respect to internal communication, motivating employees and showing  appreciation for the work they perform 
take priority. Of prime importance in the context of external communication is the dissemination of scientific and scholarly findings.
GOVERNANCE
Governance is characterised by transpar -
ency, participation and responsibility. This includes the balanced inter-gearing of administrative and academic  structures. At the heart of the University’s strategic developments are its people – its  faculty, 
staff and students, who are to be provid-ed with the space and freedom needed to create new ideas and drive change, and an optimal environment for  research 
and teaching. The University’s objective is to develop new  ideas, maintain its 
distinctive identity and further enhance its academic profile, through compe-tence, creativity, critical reflection, communication, cooperation and conti-nuity. In research, it is equally commit-ted to increasing knowledge on funda-mental questions in the natural and social sciences and the humanities and to making relevant contributions to globally sustainable development. Both basic research and areas of  applied 
 research are to be appropriately 
 integrated into the teaching. The 
 University is pursuing the following 
paths to  accomplish these objectives:
ENABLING CREATIVITY The University creates a research envi-ronment designed to give scholars and scientists the necessary space and free-dom to achieve the best possible results in research within the disciplines and in interdisciplinary problem-solving. It  fosters self-determinant studying and a 
culture of cross-disciplinary and  research-oriented teaching across all 
University Faculties. By providing 
| WHAT ARE OUR AREAS OF ACTION? | WHERE ARE WE HEADING?
8 |  | 9
View from the observation platform of the  Institute for Astrophysics, Göttingen
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
 gender-equality-oriented and family- 
friendly study and working conditions, the University creates an environment for all faculty, staff and students that  allows their creativity to flourish and 
encourages them to come up with new ideas.
FOSTERING CRITICAL THINKING  
AND OPENNESS TO CRITICISM  
The road to reliable and established new knowledge requires openness to criticism and the willingness to be self-critical. The University sees the  development of critical thinking and the power to make judgements as a prime 
educational objective. In research, teaching and study, the University  guarantees a sheltered environment for 
constructive criticism, a prerequisite in the search for truth in science. This  process is dependent on mutual respect 
among all those involved, and on taking responsibility for the consequences that scientific work can have on human  beings in their social and natural 
 environment. 
10 |  | 11STRENGTHENING COMMUNICATIONS Communication is a prerequisite for trust. Effective exchange of information, a critical discussion culture and the constructive interaction with those  responsible for running the University 
provide the basis for a cohesive  academic community and serve to 
avoid misunderstandings, intolerance and discrimination. The Presidential Board encourages faculty, staff and  students of the University to embrace a 
culture of open and fair communica-tion.  
EXPANDING COLLABORATIVE   
PROJECTS 
Cross-disciplinary collaborative projects in research and teaching as well as  regional, national and international 
partnerships and networks open up  additional development opportunities 
for Göttingen University and its faculty, staff and students. Academics and  students alike profit not only from the 
cooperation on the Göttingen Campus, but also from the many and various  collaborative projects with partners in 
the scientific, business and societal  domains. In addition, such collabora-
tion facilitates efficient and responsible use of resources in research and teach-ing.  BUNDLING COMPETENCIES Utilisation of synergy effects, learning from one another, providing mutual support, and developing a Campus-wide identity: all these processes strengthen the University and its faculty, staff and students. Bundling competencies is also the objective in the context of all  activities across the Göttingen Campus. 
The University encourages all its  members to contribute and develop 
their strengths in this way, since its most valuable  resources are the skills and 
 accomplishments of its researchers, staff 
and students.
ENSURING CONTINUITY 
Dependable framework conditions are essential for the development of  research projects with the prospect of 
long-term success and to ensure that the research-oriented teaching based thereon can be delivered. The University can look back over an impressive tradition of outstanding accomplishments by Göttingen scientists and scholars, and will continue to make such achieve-ments possible, also in the future. Faced with the challenges of a rapidly changing    
environment and ever-new demands, the University today requires suitable governance structures to ensure reliable framework conditions for research and teaching on a sustainable basis.
‘Objects of Knowledge’ exhibition in the Paulinerkirche
|  RESEARCH: EXCELLENCE THROUGH  
INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH AND COLLABORATION
Advancement of knowledge through 
basic research, continuing further  development of existing knowledge 
bases, application-related research: these are the scientific foundations on which Göttingen University stands. With innovative research approaches and projects, the researchers make a lasting contribution to solving national and global problems.
The University provides researchers 
working individually with the condi-tions and freedom to achieve excellent results, as well as opportunities for  collaborative interdisciplinary research. 
In support of this process, constant  improvements are being made to the 
 research infrastructures and in the 
 library domain.
Furthermore, the Lichtenberg-Kolleg, 
Göttingen’s Institute for Advanced Study, gives the opportunity for promi-nent researchers to be invited to Göttin-gen from Germany and abroad so that they may enter into direct scholarly dis-course here.
The research work conducted by 
 doctoral candidates, who make a signif-
icant contribution to the advancement of knowledge, is systematically support-ed through appropriate mentoring and further training opportunities. In  particular, the large-scale Graduate 
Schools provide an outstanding  environment for young academics.
In line with its comprehensive interna-
tionalisation strategy, the University is intensifying its efforts to support cooper -
ation with foreign partners with a view to achieving optimal scientific and scholarly exchange worldwide. It is  expanding support for international 
 projects and encouraging stays abroad. 
Special attention is paid to early-career scientists and scholars in this context. The ‘welcome culture’ on the Campus facilitates rapid integration of academ-ics upon their arrival. In unison with its partners on the Göttingen Campus, the University seeks to advance further the process of international networking.
In support of the research process, 
 Göttingen University is building up its 
research and information infrastructures. Wherever expedient, the University will organise the research infrastructure in Campus laboratories set up as structural, technology-based units bringing together the facilities required within methodo-logical focus areas, and make available appropriately trained technical and  scientific personnel for large-scale 
equip ment. The information infrastruc -
tures will be developed in a complementary manner, based on a strategic concept designed for the Göttingen Campus as a whole. The concept of computer and data-supported science is to encompass all scientific disciplines on the Campus.
Research focus areas at the Göttingen 
Campus emerge from cooperation  between outstanding scientists and 
scholars within collaborative projects or centres. In general, centres will be set up on a limited-period basis, supported by an external advisory board and  evaluated periodically. The Centre for 
Modern Indian Studies (CeMIS) and the Centre for Modern East Asian Studies (CeMEAS) specifically promote region- related research.
An important task of the University is to 
identify new fields of research and  foster 
scientists and scholars in their endea-
vours to engage with, and pursue  consistently, new ideas off the beaten 
track. Over the long term, this can lead to new profile-enhancing research areas developing at the University as a result of the gain in visibility achieved via large-scale, funded and evaluated  collaborative projects.
As targeted instruments for fostering highly 
novel research ideas, the University is setting up Courant Centres, each with three junior professorships or positions for ‘free floater’ junior research groups. Via these measures, outstanding junior professors provided with a tenure track option can make their mark as up-and-coming scientists and scholars working in entirely new research areas at the University, while also playing a part in triggering new developments for foci.
As a comprehensive university, Göttin-
gen has the potential to bring together research interests transcending several subject borders, thereby building new bridges in research and teaching. The key research foci set out below vary in terms of the number of researchers  involved, the degree to which they have 
Historical Observatory, home of the Lichtenberg  
Institute for Advanced Study
12 |  | 13GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024

GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
become established, and their visibility 
in the national and international setting. Yet all of them demonstrate the poten-tial to develop in a manner that will  enhance the University’s profile in the 
coming years.
The research foci in the natural and life 
sciences are characterised by their  numerous collaborative activities and 
the volume of third-party funding. As a rule, the research is performed by scien-tists belonging to several different  Faculties and to non-university partner 
institutions on the Göttingen Campus. The University Medical Center Göttin-gen (UMG) plays a leading role in the neurosciences and cardiovascular  research foci. Intense subject-specific 
and methodological exchange takes place among these different focus areas.
NEUROSCIENCES
The Neurosciences focus ranges from  basic research at the molecular level – 
 including the Cluster of Excellence ‘Na-
noscale Microscopy and Molecular Phys-iology of the Brain’ (CNMPB) – to the transfer of scientific evidence into clinical research, diagnostics and therapeutics. In institutional terms, research collaboration within this scientific focus encompasses several Faculties, including the UMG and large parts of the Göttingen Campus (e.g. the German Centre for Health Research on Neurodegenerative Diseases, DZNE).
CARDIOVASCULAR RESEARCH
The focus issues of Cardiovascular  Research, carried out primarily at the 
University Medical Centre Göttingen (UMG), are heart failure and regenera-tion. Especially notable elements are the Collaborative Research Centre ‘Modulatory Units in Heart Failure’, an international research training group, and its participation – as one of seven national locations – in the German  Centre for Cardiovascular Research. In 
an alliance of excellent University and non-university partners in Göttingen, research is performed with a view to  defining pathophysiologically relevant 
micro- and nanocompartments inside and outside the myocardial cell as  therapeutic targets for treating weak 
heart muscles and to evolve innovative procedures for myocardial regenera-tion. Ultimately, the Göttingen Heart Centre is where promising concepts from basic research are translated into clinical practice.  
FUNCTIONAL PRINCIPLES OF  LIVING MATTER The Functional Principles of Living Mat-ter focus area covers both molecular re-search questions and mesoscale  processes involved in biological  systems 
14 |  | 15operating far beyond the thermo-
dynamic equilibrium. The focus lies in the development of novel experimental and theoretical methods and models, as well as on the observation and interpreta-tion of complex dynamic processes in both living and model systems. 
CELLULAR PROCESSES AND   
MOLECULAR MACHINES
This research focus links over 30  working groups and seven junior 
 research groups funded as part of large-
scale collaborative projects based in different Faculties. The topics addressed in this collaborative research range from epigenetics and chromatin dynamics, intracellular transport and cellular  machines, to the interaction and 
 communication between cells. Current 
and ground-breaking projects involve components of structural biology and of synthetic biology.
ENERGY CONVERSION 
The Energy Conversion focus covers  basic research in the area of atomic 
 energy conversion and storage processes 
in complex materials and systems.  Several Faculties working in the natural 
sciences and Max Planck Institutes  cooperate in the Collaborative Research 
Centre ‘Atomic Scale Control of Energy Conversion’, in the framework of the  interdisciplinary ‘International Center 
STED (Stimulated Emission Depletion) microscopy, 
Professor Hell's research group
GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
16 |GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN
 | 17profile of Göttingen University in the 
years to come.
RELIGIOUS RESEARCH 
Göttingen University has research  expertise relating to a large number of 
the world’s religions. The religious  studies 
focus deals in an interdisciplinary,  systematic and comparative manner 
with religious phenomena, processes and transformations in past and  present 
societies. In addition to the  respective 
Faculties, participating institutions 
 include also the Courant  Research Cen-
tre ‘Education and  Religion’ (EDRIS), the 
Lichtenberg- Kolleg and the Max Planck 
Institute for the Study of Religious and 
Ethnic  Diversity.
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONThis research focus explores how  digitization is affecting and changing all 
areas of society, including culture,  education, law, commerce and technol-
ogy, and indeed science and scholar -
ship itself. In academia and research, the development and application of computer and data-supported methods play an important role for research top-ics in the humanities and social scienc-es. The underlying concept of the ‘Göt-tingen Centre for Digital Humanities’ (GCDH) is being extended to encom-pass the broad range of research ap-proaches.LANGUAGE AND COGNITION The objective of the Language and  Cognition research focus is to learn 
more about the cognitive language skills of human beings and the manner in which language and text is processed. Arising from the close interconnection between the linguistics chairs in the Faculty of Humanities and the Courant Research Centre ‘Text Structures’, this thematic area is developing into a highly dynamic forum for the integration of theoretical-analytical and empirical- experimental research on language and its use. Cooperations have emerged  involving computer sciences, primate 
research, psychology, philosophy and behaviour research, to name a few.
for Advanced Studies of Energy Conver -
sion’ that is currently being established, and in further initiatives in the areas of  catalysis, photovoltaics and battery 
 materials including bioenergy. 
SUSTAINABLE USE OF NATURAL 
RESOURCES In the framework of large-scale transdis-ciplinary collaborations, biological and sociological methods are used to exam-ine complex  problems concerning the 
sustainable use of natural resources. This focus  includes collaborative pro-
jects under the overarching roof of the ‘Centre for Biodiversity and Sustainable Land Use’ (CBL). The projects deal with both the influence of humans on the abiotic and biotic environment and its underlying processes, as well as the use of limited resources and the resulting impact on the environment. Important thematic  areas are biodiversity in culti-
vated  spaces (forestry, agriculture) and 
 sustainable food security as a precondi-
tion for combatting poverty. 
Researchers not only in the natural and 
life sciences but also from the social sciences and the humanities are work-ing in the focus area Sustainable Use of Natural Resources. In the humanities and social sciences, three additional  focus areas have emerged that hold 
great potential for contributing to the 
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
lingual degree programmes on offer, 
providing additional German-language courses held alongside university  studies, 
and giving additional dedicated support 
and supervision. For its own students it seeks to facilitate periods of study abroad that fit seamlessly into the  curricula.
A high degree of flexibility within the Bachelor’s degree curricula is achieved by integrating courses on key compe-tencies and professionalisation as elec-tive options, particularly within the framework of two-subject Bachelor  degree programmes. These enhance the 
attractiveness of the courses offered by the University considerably, and nurture cross-disciplinary inter-subject exchange among students.
The Faculties are improving the transi-
tion between the various qualification levels and thereby removing possible obstacles to recruiting highly qualified young scientists and scholars for degree programmes and doctoral projects. In the Graduate Schools, the doctoral can-didates are trained within structured PhD programmes and the terms of their supervision are documented in supervi-sory agreements.To attract students from outside the re-gion and from abroad, Göttingen Uni-versity is developing a tailored degree programme marketing strategy, and of-fers students a broad range of services and support portfolio. This includes a central facility for teaching languages and key qualifications. Students requir -
ing additional support are offered ser -
vices tailored to their needs, specific student advisory services, and psycho-social counselling. The universal aim of becoming barrier-free is being ad-dressed in stages.
Göttingen University deems personal 
interaction between lecturers and  students the indispensable core of its 
university education. In addition to this, it offers its students modern multimedia equipment for e-learning in auditoria and seminar rooms. Electronically  assisted learning is increasingly being 
used for instruction and the University is proceeding with ongoing develop-ment in this area.
18 |  | 19Göttingen University is committed to research-oriented teaching and in con-sidering the various target groups is sys-tematically further developing the study programmes on offer. It aspires to deliv-er outstanding teaching performance, contributing to the transformation of our knowledge society and supporting  students in developing their personal 
talents and skills.
Göttingen University pursues its research-  
oriented teaching approach  toge ther 
with its Campus partners.  Lecturers moti-
vate their students to  become enthusias-
tic about research,  attune them to differ -
ent ways of thinking and solving 
problems. They also foster their skills in – and enjoyment of –  discussion and 
 dialogue. The University seeks to grant 
students a broad spectrum of methodo-logical knowledge, to foster their analyt-ical thinking and to give them sufficient scope for creativity. As future experts and leaders, they should be equipped to deal adequately and flexibly with  ever-changing  challenges in their profes-
sional lives. In line with the current 
trends in educational research, teacher training remains an important focus. For the transition from studying at university to employment in a profession outside academia, it offers support through a ‘job fair’,  career service and Faculty-based 
 initiatives.Recognition of diversity and equal 
 opportunities, support in international 
mobility, and new forms of teaching are decisive in enabling students  to make their way with self-determination. The University is open to all individuals,  irrespective of their national, ethnic, 
 social and  economic conditions.
Göttingen University is prepared to 
 accommodate a growing student body, 
also in the coming years, whilst at the same time maintaining its high quality standards. It aims to increase the  proportion of those leaving the Universi-
ty with a degree and to improve the staff-student ratio, particularly in the subjects that are in particularly high  demand. In this context, it is also 
 optimising its degree programmes and 
offering dedicated advisory services.
Göttingen University promotes student 
mobility, supporting the recognition of study credits from other universities and other countries. In terms of course  content, the University is facing the 
challenges of internationalisation by gearing its degree programmes to a  globalised world. Particularly in the 
area of Master’s degree and doctoral studies, the University aims to recruit a larger number of engaged and especially able students from abroad. To this end, it is increasing the number of multi-|  TEACHING: 
RESEARCH- AND TARGET-GROUP-ORIENTED

GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
20 |  | 21
Göttingen State and University Library on the central campus
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
central campus offers 650 working 
 places in 240 rooms, offering in 
 exemplary manner the possibility for 
students to work in groups, with a  generous allocation of space, or on 
their own.
22 |  | 23Göttingen University supports research and teaching by means of modern, high standard, target-group-specific and cross-disciplinary infrastructures. Locally and in the digital world, it  ensures the appropriate spatial and 
technological infrastructure. Göttingen University views the provision and  further development of its infrastruc-
tures for research and teaching as an important strategic task. For this  reason, 
it has established this as a new,  full-time 
area of responsibility in the Universi-ty’s Presidential Board. The infrastruc-ture includes buildings, laboratories, large-scale equipment, libraries,  collections, energy, IT and data infra-
structures.
With the Göttingen State and University 
Library and the ‘Gesellschaft für wis-senschaftliche Datenverarbeitung’ (Göttingen Computing Centre, GWDG), the Göttingen Campus is  already equipped with excellent infor -
mation infrastructures, as demonstrat-
ed by their leading role in national and European collaborative projects.  Nevertheless, the research infrastruc-
tures require further expansion. To this end, the Göttingen Campus is adopting an overall strategic concept for the  location. This includes joint technology-  
based campus laboratories and the 
comprehensive further development of the information infrastructure, with IT fit for the future and cross-disciplinary expertise, e.g. in the area of research data management. The objective is to reach out to all disciplines and to  accommodate special individual needs 
within cross-disciplinary solutions, in a resource-efficient manner.
The maintenance and expansion of 
 infrastructures for research and teach-
ing is highly cost-intensive and can be guaranteed only if the federal and state governments make the necessary re-sources available. Accordingly, in the  discourse on science policy, Göttingen 
University speaks out to promote new investments and secure the mainte-nance of the necessary infrastructure in all areas through public funding, as well as via partnerships with non-  
university institutions.
The currently high standard and 
 expanding new course offerings for 
computer/data science and data  analysis also reflect the importance 
placed on information technology  infrastructures in teaching. Göttingen 
University monitors and tests the possi-bilities and limitations of international virtual study offerings, such as open online courses, and develops its strate-gy accordingly. On site, a new ‘Learn-ing and Study Building’ located on the |  INFRASTRUCTURES: 
BASIS FOR SYNERGIES AND RENEWAL
Physics Building
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
24 |  | 25The University shows special apprecia-
tion of its employees, offering all groups appropriate further training strategies and career advice. Tailored concepts for fostering young academics are designed to prepare them for careers within and outside university. Providing equal  opportunities for all is a paramount 
principle fostering diversity in the  human resources sector.
At Göttingen University, all staff 
 members contribute in their varying 
 positions to the success of research and 
teaching. The University’s Presidential Board supports the senior managerial staff not only to discharge their duties vis-à-vis the employees, but also to shape an optimally functioning organi-sation and drive the innovation needed to ensure that staff can work together  productively. It supports the institutional 
health scheme and occupational safety.
Recognising the services and achieve-
ments of its faculty, staff and students is a key component in the culture of the University. This motivates staff to  contribute creatively to the design of 
working processes. Employees are of-fered professional training and are as-sisted in the event of problems and con-flicts. Gender equity plays a central role in this  context. As a group, postdoctoral 
 academic staff form an important basis for the ongoing performance of research 
and teaching operations. In the future,  academic personal development and 
transparency with respect to career paths will continue to be a priority  within the University. Moreover, the 
University will offer continuing educa-tion regarding careers for graduates out-side academia.
|  PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT: 
COMMITTED TO CREATING OPPORTUNITY|  FUNDING: 
DEPENDABILITY AND NEW ROOM FOR MANOEUVRE
At the staff partyAlso in the long-term, Göttingen  University will continue to be funded 
primarily from the public purse. An  important element here is the ‘Hoch-
schulentwicklungsvertrag’(Agreement on the Development of Higher Educa-tion Institutions). For innovations and initial project financing, the Presidential Board makes resources available from a special fund earmarked for such  purposes. Resources becoming 
 available from this fund will be utilised 
more intensively for measures to raise the profile of the University as a whole. Where such plans involve any realloca-tion of resources across entities or  Faculties, transparent criteria and 
 procedures for reaching reallocation 
decisions will be developed together with the Faculties and boards.In the area of attracting third-party  funding for research and teaching, the 
University will continue to participate in the large-scale interdisciplinary calls for proposals issued by the European Union, the German federal government and the Land of Lower Saxony. The  University’s strategic fine-tuning will 
take account of the new funding  measures to be announced after 2016, 
upon which the forthcoming Excellence Initiative is expected to be based. Scien-tists and scholars at the University  receive significant assistance from the 
University for their own endeavours to attract third-party funding for research.
The University will develop an overar -
ching fundraising strategy in an intensi-
fied effort to raise additional funding from private sources. It is sharpening the profile and focus of activity in fund-raising. Close cooperation with the  University’s partners on the Göttingen 
Campus is an integral part of this  strategy.
One prerequisite for successful acquisi-
tion of private funding is that it is imple-mented exclusively for additional  measures and projects, and not as a 
substitute for public resources.
The Brunsviga calculating machine from the Col-lection of Mathematical Models and Instruments
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
26 |  | 27The publicly accessible academic 
 collections open up insights into the 
history of science and academia, while current research projects are showcased at events such as ‘The Night of Know-ledge’. In setting up Forum Wissen  the University plans to create a place where in future the general  public will be able 
to take a look ‘through the window’ into the University and find out how novel scientific ideas come into being.
Internal communication based on 
 participation and transparency in 
 practice is one of the central instru-
ments for forging cohesion within a large organisation such as a university, whilst at the same time cultivating its image externally in a positive manner. The University hence intends to devote special attention to its internal commu-nication processes and is utilising the new media for internal information- sharing across all status groups. It 
 regularly disseminates information 
about the central issues concerning the University and the Campus, and gives the student body the opportunity to  participate actively in communication 
and information processes.
In its press and public relations work, 
the University of Göttingen seeks to  fulfill the claim that its scientists and 
scholars make a contribution to the challenges facing today’s society. It  encourages its scientists and scholars to 
engage in public debate and promote knowledge transfer.Göttingen University is well aware that it stands in competition with other  renowned academic institutions around 
the world and is consequently reinforc-ing its position as a university of  research 
excellence. Together with its partners on the Göttingen Campus, the Universi-ty is sending out clear signals promoting the ‘Göttingen research location’. The University is supporting a combined marketing strategy involving all mem-bers of the Göttingen Campus and is committed to creating a Campus-wide joint identity.
The University’s overall concept for out-
ward communication is borne by good internal communication among faculty, staff and students. The Göttingen Cam-pus offers additional potential in this context to enhance the profile of the  research location.
The public rightfully expects science 
and academia to share insights and  disseminate information about research 
content and the findings resulting from projects. That is why the University –  together with its other partners on the 
Göttingen Campus – believes in open communication and exchange with the public, thereby pursuing a dialogue with external partners from business, politics and the society at large.
|  COMMUNICATION: 
MOTIVATION AND POSITIONING
At the ‘Day of Collections’
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
28 |  | 29| GOVERNANCE:  
 TRANSPARENCY, PARTICIPATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
The model of a university in the form of 
a Public Law Foundation provides good institutional and organisational condi-tions that are both suited to the  conducting of research and well 
 adapted to societal developments. 
Decision- making processes and their 
communication are to be organised in a manner that maximises freedom and flexibility in research and teaching.
Maintained as a Foundation, the University 
of Göttingen enjoys a high degree of  autonomy marked by five central 
 features: the right of appointment, the 
employer or principal status, financial autonomy, its status as a building  contractor, and the expertise of the 
Foundation Council. This enables the funding of research and teaching at an internationally competitive level. The decision-making capacity of all bodies and committees of the University is characterised by clear communication and transparency designed to generate a culture of trust. Through the continued development of standardised proce-dures and unambiguous regulations, the efficiency of decision-making processes now needs to be raised yet further.
The Foundation Council, which is 
 composed with a majority of external 
members, is the foundation body that decides on matters of fundamental  significance, contributes its expertise in a 
scientific, socio-political and economic perspective, and provides thereby  important impulses for shaping the 
 University’s strategy.
The Presidential Board is organised 
 according to the principle of ‘areas of 
responsibility’ under the President’s  authority to lay down guidelines. The 
composition with three full-time and three part-time members has proved its merits: on the one hand, it ensures  continuity, whilst, on the other, promot-
ing renewal processes and strengthen-ing linkage with the Faculties.
The Senate and Senate Committees are 
composed according to the group uni-versity model, thereby bringing together lecturers and students as well as  academic and technical personnel. 
These are thus key players in consensus building and balancing the various  interests at the University, and they are 
also especially well placed to contribute to bottom-up processes for developing novel foci and approaches. Models for procedural arrangements in the interac-tion between the Presidential Board, the Senate and its committees, and the  preparatory work performed by Central 
Administration, are to be further devel-oped.
The Faculties are and will remain the most important pillars supporting  research and teaching; their hallmark is 
the balance between autonomous deci-sion-making and responsible action within the definition of a comprehensive university. To improve the continuity and professionalism of the deans’ offices, the terms in office of part-time deans have been extended and positions  created for deans of studies and full-
time Faculty managers.
As cross-faculty organisational units, 
the University’s centres constitute inter -
disciplinary research structures, which, in interplay with the Faculties, form a perfect matrix for the further develop-ment of research and teaching.
The Central Administration sees itself as 
a service provider to the Presidential Board, the committees and the academ-ic institutes. It is involved in the organi-sational work of the Presidential Board, constantly liaising with administrative units of Faculties and other non-central units. The scope of responsibilities and cooperation between Faculty level and Central Administration level is to be  further developed with a view to achie-
ing greater workflow efficiency. This 
GEORG-AUGUST-UNIVERSITÄT GÖTTINGEN GÖTTINGEN UNIVERSITY: POSITIONS AND PERSPECTIVES 2014 – 2024
30 |  | 31IMAGE RIGHTS
P. 4: Frank Stefan Kimmel
P. 7: Frank Stefan Kimmel
P. 9: Klaus Reinsch
P. 10: Jan Vetter 
P. 13: Gisa Kirschmann-Schröder
P. 15:  Max Planck Institute for 
Biophysical Chemistry Research Group Stefan Hell
P. 16: Christian Ammer
P. 19: Peter Heller
P.  20: Gisa Kirschmann-Schröder
P. 23: Gisa Kirschmann-Schröder
P. 24: Christoph Mischke
P. 25: Stephan Eckardt 
P. 26:  Klein und Neumann KommunikationsDesign
P. 27: Stephan Eckardt 
P. 29: Reiner Mansch 
P. 30: Christoph Mischke
also applies to the cooperation with the Equal Opportunities Officers and the Staff Council, who are involved in all relevant procedures.
As a part of the Foundation that is largely 
independent in legal terms, the Univer -
sity Medical Center Göttingen is organ-ised in an integration model consisting of the Faculty of Medicine and the  University Hospital. This structure has 
proved its merits; it guarantees inde-pendence in economic issues, whilst at the same time enabling the greatest  possible interlinking with the University 
in research and teaching.
As the committee steering the strategy 
of the Göttingen Campus, the Göttingen Research Council consists of an equal number of members from the University and from the non-university research  institutions. It constitutes an essential 
instrument for the further development of the Göttingen Campus and is a model for campus structures throughout the German research landscape.
Faculty Club 
