Our  
 Values
Our values underpin who 
we are, how we behave and 
the ways we work together 
across every aspect of the 
University. Our Strategy 
will embed a values-led 
approach at every level 
of the organisation. This 
will define our community 
and contribute to our 
distinctiveness.Contents
Our Strategy 2
Our Values 3
Our Purpose 5
Strategic Themes 6
    Building Flourishing Communities 8 
    Pioneering in Education 10
    Excelling in Research and Enterprise 12
    A Global, Connected University 14
Our Bicentennial: celebrating  
a pioneering heritage 16
Transformative education on  
a global scale 18
Powering up innovation and  
enterprise 20
Our People – Shaping T omorrow  
T ogether 22
Measuring our Performance 24Page 3 — Strategy 2025 
Inspire
Inspire curiosity to learn 
and find solutions that 
transform lives.Collaborate
Collaborate by working in partnership 
to shape the future whilst taking 
responsibility for our own actions.
Belong
Belong to a diverse, inclusive and 
international community working together 
across boundaries and cultures.Celebrate
Celebrate excellence and take  
pride in the achievements of our 
students, staff and alumni.
Page 2 — Strategy 2025 
Our Strategy
Heriot-Watt is a distinctive University with 
global reach and a proud history of providing 
access to education, ideas and solutions that 
make a real contribution to the world.
Our strategy is based on our heritage, our 
expertise, our relevance, and our global 
presence. We know what we are good at, 
and we know that our global configuration 
creates exciting opportunities. This 
strategy shows how we will realise 
those opportunities, imaginatively and 
energetically. 
Our highly distinctive personality make us 
strong and our capabilities and expertise 
enable us to serve the future needs of 
society. Our goal is to educate our students 
to flourish in their learning and life skills, 
and for our University to deliver research 
and enterprise with profound impact on 
the communities that we serve. 
Our strategy is all about shaping tomorrow 
together. It comprises four high-level 
themes that connect to our activities, and 
which will guide how we will continue to 
pioneer in education, excel in research, 
build flourishing communities and develop 
our globally connected status. Our core purpose is to create and 
exchange knowledge that benefits society. 
Our approach is to develop leaders in 
ideas and solutions. Recognising the 
challenges of our rapidly changing world 
requires us to be even more determined 
to fulfil our purpose and advance our 
approach. Our strategy presents our 
ambitions in this regard. Through it we 
will further our reputation as a ground-
breaking, high performing university that makes an outstanding impact across the 
globe. You can read about our strategic 
performance indicators on page 24, 
including our intention to pioneer new 
measures for global access to education 
and sustainability befitting a multi-campus 
international University.
Professor Richard A. Williams  
OBE FREng FRSE FTSE  
Principal and Vice-Chancellor

Strategy 2025 — Page 5
Our  
Purpose
From a pioneering institute born out of the Scottish 
Enlightenment in 1821, to a leader in transnational 
education, Heriot-Watt has become a global 
university through a commitment to its vision, 
mission and ethos.
Our Vision
Our vision is to 
be world-leading 
within all our areas 
of specialism. Our Mission
Our mission is to 
create and exchange 
knowledge that 
benefits society.Our Ethos
We put our community of students, staff and 
alumni at the heart of everything we do. Our 
distinctive strengths will continue to build a 
global University that pioneers innovation in 
education, research and enterprise. 
Page 6 — Strategy 2025 
Strategic 
Themes 
Shaping Tomorrow Together is a values-
led strategy, articulating and supporting 
the behaviours that will allow our 
values to be lived across the University 
community until 2025 and beyond.  
It explains how we will work to transfer 
our values from concepts to tangible 
activity, ensuring that they underpin 
everything we do.
Our strategy expresses what we intend to achieve over its 
lifetime. It builds on our strengths and is organised around 
four related themes.
Strategy 2025 — Page 7
We will be a globally  
connected University
Across our five campuses and growing international 
communities we will work to break down any 
institutional barriers and further encourage outward 
engagement, collaboration and partnership.We will excel in research  
and enterprise
Our research and entrepreneurial approach will place 
us at the forefront of academic endeavour that aims 
to make an outstanding impact on society. We will 
continue to address crucial world issues through our 
interdisciplinary approach and close collaboration with 
industry and business.
We will pioneer in education
Since our foundation in 1821, we have been outward looking 
pioneers of education, in pursuit of knowledge to the benefit 
of society and the world. We will continue to offer a distinctive 
learning experience, enhanced by our global connectivity, and 
grounded in the needs of a rapidly changing world.We will build flourishing 
communities
Communities flourish when they are inspired, connected, 
collaborative and valued. Through our strategy we will 
continue to generate these attributes across students, staff 
and alumni, and strive to be a positive influence on the 
communities where we are based. We will shape tomorrow 
together to deliver benefits for all of society.
Page 8 — Strategy 2025 
Our strategy will support all our 
communities in the United Kingdom, 
the United Arab Emirates and 
Malaysia, creating opportunities to 
engage staff and students with our 
vision, mission and values.
We will build flourishing communities by developing the 
wellbeing of our students and staff, promoting equality and 
diversity in all its forms across our locations, and embedding 
a culture of listening and engagement. Encouraging life-
long learning and personal development will support our 
communities to achieve their ambitions and experience 
greater fulfilment.
Our alumni form an extensive, global community with whom 
we will build stronger relationships by encouraging new ways 
to grow their engagement with the University and to support 
their career development. We will continue to work on the effectiveness, operation 
and structure of the University, to help our academics 
excel in their teaching, research and enterprise, creating 
opportunities for collaboration to flourish and encouraging 
partnerships between academia, business and industry.
Across all of our locations we will seek to develop social 
and business partnerships which drive economic prosperity, 
deliver growth and increase our social impact. Encouraging 
mutually-beneficial connections to flourish between our staff, 
students and wider society will underpin activities to share 
and exchange ideas, skills and learning.
Enabling our communities to be at the heart of the data 
revolution will also be a priority. We will grow our expertise 
in data-driven innovation and seek further opportunities 
to share that expertise, building on partnerships we have 
already formed such as that with the Edinburgh and South 
East Scotland City Region Deal to become the ‘data capital 
of Europe’.Building Flourishing  
Communities 
Heriot-Watt is a vibrant, international, 
intercultural and interdisciplinary community 
of staff, students and alumni.STRATEGIC THEMES
Strategy 2025 — Page 9
Staff 
SatisfactionSector Upper  
Quartile
Economic 
Impact 
(Global)Double by 
2025Outcomes: 
• Happy, resilient, emotionally intelligent 
and future ready graduates
• A supportive environment for staff and 
students to achieve their full potential 
and shape the future
• A distinctive community that is values-
led and purpose-driven
• Synergistic relationships between 
research, education and business
• An inspiring and dynamic environment 
to work and study
Page 10 — Strategy 2025 
Pioneering in  
Education 
Heriot-Watt is highly regarded for its degree 
programmes based on professional and real 
practical relevance. 
Through inspirational approaches to 
learning our students already acquire 
the key attributes which are valued 
by employers, including specialist 
expertise, creativity, global thinking 
and professionalism.
Our strategy will support all our students to acquire not 
only knowledge and skills but also intercultural intelligence, 
increased personal resilience and the confidence to cope 
with a rapidly changing world. We will develop a learning to 
learn approach which will help our students and graduates 
to flourish, equipping them to succeed and able to meet the 
emerging challenges of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
We are committed to enhancing the learning experience of 
all our students, regardless of their location, level, mode or 
duration of study. The range of ways in which a student can gain their education with us is part of how we enhance their 
experience and we will continue to develop new pathways; 
be that on campus; through transfer between campuses; 
learning remotely and primarily through digital media; in 
partnership between the University and their employer; or by 
combining modes to best suit their individual circumstances. 
Our degree programmes are highly regarded for their 
professional relevance and the resultant employability of our 
graduates. Through our strategy we will continue to innovate 
in the area of global curriculum design. We will further 
develop our distinctive approach through the latest research 
into learning, increasing digitalisation, and combining 
individual and collaborative modes of study. 
Offering transformative educational opportunities, locally 
and globally, will ensure that the learning experience of our 
students will be inspiring, challenging and fulfilling.STRATEGIC THEMES
Strategy 2025 — Page 11
Top   
Decile
Graduate
OutcomesInclusion  
and Wider 
AccessPioneer a  
sector leading 
global 
approachUpper  
Quartile
Student
SatisfactionOutcomes: 
• Empowered graduates 
holistically developed through 
innovative learning and 
engagement methods
• Highly sought-after graduates
• Flexible, personalised and 
highly relevant programmes 
of studies to engage and 
upskill learners
• Providing new pathways and 
globally accessible education
Page 12 — Strategy 2025 
Excelling in Research 
and Enterprise 
Our strategy will capitalise on opportunities to grow 
research and enterprise across the University.
We will implement a major 
expansion in our capacity and 
reputation through the creation of up 
to six research institutes. These will 
build on areas of existing excellence 
and strive to become internationally 
leading. They will exemplify our 
success in research of real value to 
society and will help to develop our 
enterprise activities worldwide. 
The new institutes will work with funders, businesses and 
other leading research organisations to co-create research 
propositions that place us at the forefront of intellectual 
discovery. 
To grow our research portfolio we will create a vigorous 
and supportive environment that develops opportunities to 
achieve excellence and which connects our international 
research communities across our locations and with our 
network of leading research partners. We will continue to recruit, retain and develop high calibre 
research leaders and support them through our values-
led approach and our state-of-the-art infrastructure and 
facilities, enabling them to achieve world-class success in 
their areas of specialism. 
Our strategy will substantially increase our research income 
and the contributions that our research will make to the 
economy and the environment. Through our interdisciplinary 
approach and close collaboration with industry and business 
we will build on our reputation to seamlessly evolve our 
fundamental research to innovation and enterprise. 
Developing the people and ideas that spark new businesses 
and transform organisations will help us to shape tomorrow 
through our approach to enterprise. We will integrate 
enterprise activities with our research and teaching, 
developing new partnerships and strengthening our 
interactions with business. 
Our aim will be to stimulate radical innovation, utilising state-
of-the-art interactive spaces to develop creative relationships 
between our students, staff and business partners, leading to 
new funding streams and further accelerating the impact of 
our work.STRATEGIC THEMES
Strategy 2025 — Page 13
World 
University 
RankingResearch
Grant 
IncomeGreater than
£65m
AnnuallyTop
250Pioneer a  
sector leading 
global 
approach
Environmental 
SustainabilityOutcomes: 
• Excellence and financial growth in research 
income supported by up to six new 
interdisciplinary research institutes
• Thought leadership that shapes the global 
research agenda
• A new local and globally connected enterprise 
eco-system connecting students, staff and 
society
• Global reputation for transformative 
economic and societal impact that addresses 
Grand Challenges and contributes towards 
Sustainable Development Goals
Page 14 — Strategy 2025 
A Global,Connected  
University 
Heriot-Watt is a globally connected, multi-campus 
University, where our students and staff  form an 
integrated international community.
Our strategy will see us consolidate 
our move towards a single 
organisation where geographical 
location does not limit staff or 
student opportunities. Interacting 
across time zones and locations 
will be further enhanced through 
infrastructure which supports and 
enables exchange, collaboration and 
partnership.
Building an organisational culture which reinforces our 
global, connected identity will be a priority and we will 
establish wider shared working, and take early actions to 
evolve our structures to deliver effectively across all our 
locations.We will optimise our balance of resources to deliver our core 
business smoothly and efficiently across our multi-campus 
structure and develop agility to respond to opportunities 
wherever they arise. 
We will also strengthen our capabilities in leadership 
throughout the University, so that our values-led approach 
is embraced by staff and students across our global 
community.
The University makes a significant contribution in each of 
its locations and we will work to further our impact and 
influence. We will increase our income and strengthen our 
financial sustainability by developing a more diverse portfolio 
of income in each of our locations, for example by expanding 
multi-modal teaching, through research funding, and from 
fundraising. 
Heriot-Watt’s reputation is based on a distinctive education 
and a pioneering approach: the extent to which we are taking 
forward our concept of a global university is part of that 
approach, and through it we will provide stimulating, inspiring 
and exceptional opportunities for all students and staff.STRATEGIC THEMES
Strategy 2025 — Page 15
Income 
Scale and 
GrowthOperating 
SurplusResource 
Efficiency Goals: 
• Globally connected students, 
staff and alumni community
• Robust, effective and efficient 
systems and methods
• Financially sustainable and 
diversified operations
• Digital transformation of the 
organisation
 
Greater than
4%
Annually£150k
AnnuallyGreater than
£350m
Page 16 — Strategy 2025 
Our Bicentennial: 
celebrating a 
pioneering heritage
Heriot-Watt is the eighth oldest higher education 
institution in the UK and in 2021 we celebrate  
our 200th anniversary.
1821 
Edinburgh School of Arts, the 
world’s first Mechanics Institute, 
founded by Leonard Horner and 
Robert Bryson in Niddry Street.
1854 
Formation of the Watt Club –  
The UK’s oldest higher education 
institution alumni association.
1989 
The International Centre for Island 
Technology at the Orkney Campus 
opens in Stromness.
1998 
Merger with the Scottish College 
of Textiles to create the Scottish 
Borders Campus.

Strategy 2025 — Page 17
From a pioneering institute, born out of the Scottish 
Enlightenment, to a leading global university, our reputation 
for adapting and evolving teaching, learning and research to 
meet the changing needs of industry and society has been 
established throughout our history.
Beginning as the world’s first Mechanics Institute which 
opened up education for working people in 1821, we have 
continued to be focused on access to learning. Twenty years 
before legislation forced Scottish universities to open their 
doors to women in 1889, the Watt Institution had begun 
admitting women students – a truly radical step.
Our heritage includes a range of notable achievements 
in educational leadership and innovation, including: the 
world’s first global MBA through distance learning; the UK’s 
first Actuarial Science Honours degree; the world’s first 
Interpreting and Language degree; and Scotland’s first university to introduce degrees in Computer Science, 
Building, and British Sign Language.
We have continued this pioneering ethos to opening up 
educational opportunities and responding to areas of need 
through a growing internationalism: in 2005 we established 
the first overseas university in Dubai Academic City – to 
provide top quality British education to students and 
executives in the Gulf and further afield; and in 2011 we 
were chosen by the Malaysian Government to create a new 
university in Putrajaya – our state-of-the-art flagship campus 
opened in 2014.
Today, our heritage as providers of practical education and 
solutions for business and industry sees us leading the way 
across globally significant disciplines including: robotics and 
AI, sustainable energy, optics and quantum technologies, 
carbon capture and storage, logistics, engineering, business 
and design.
2005
The Dubai Campus was founded.  
The University was the first to set 
up in the new Dubai International 
Academic City.
2014 
Heriot-Watt University opens its  
fifth Campus in Putrajaya, Malaysia, 
only 25 km from Kuala Lumpur.
2018 
Edinburgh Business School opens  
Panmure House, the former home  
of father of economics, Adam Smith.
2021
The University celebrates its 200th 
anniversary.
Page 18 — Strategy 2025 
Transformative 
education on  
a global scale
Demographics are changing adversely; the world 
economy remain uncertain; there are tensions in  
world politics. 
The nature of learning changes too with pervasive digital 
technologies intrinsic to modern life. Recognising the 
challenges of the changing world must make us even more 
determined to achieve future goals that we have set for 
ourselves: we are an international university like no other.
We have already a portfolio of exciting new strategic learning 
initiatives. 
The GRID is our new focal point for Global Research, 
Innovation and Discovery. It provides an innovative teaching 
and learning environment designed to remove boundaries 
between academic disciplines, and deliver new ways to link 
with industry partners and our global community. The GRID 
methodology is being embedded in the infrastructure and 
operations in UAE and in Malaysia.
It will also be a focus for enterprise, nurturing a strong 
entrepreneurial culture where staff, students and industry 
partners are encouraged to develop ground-breaking technologies and solutions, creating entirely new industries 
and supply chains.
Oriam, Scotland’s National Performance Centre for Sport, 
is a truly leading facility for student sport, engaging all 
our Edinburgh communities and in the future enabling 
new research and teaching in performance, sports digital 
analytics and medical technologies across all campuses. 
Our Learning and Teaching Academy enables fresh 
approaches to student learning and to the support of our 
staff. Linking with investments and building on initiatives 
developed at the Malaysia Campus that highlight the positive 
impact our students and staff have on society.
The coming years will mark a new era for an invigorated 
Edinburgh Business School, providing business courses at 
all levels from foundation through to executive education 
and postdoctoral research. Online teaching and assessment 
offers us an unrivalled opportunity to build flexible support for 
our students on campus and for those far away.
Strategy 2025 — Page 19

Page 20 — Strategy 2025 
Powering up 
innovation and 
enterprise
Increasingly we expect our research 
to have radical impact on the issues 
that challenge society, especially in the 
communities where we are based.
We are developing multidisciplinary research centres strongly 
connected to our partners and community. 
The Lyell Centre, a collaborative venture with the British 
Geological Survey, is leading the development of a portfolio 
of frontier geoscience research relevant to climate change 
issues in all of our locations. 
Heriot-Watt is a world leader in robotics and artificial 
intelligence addressing key scientific challenges around 
managing robotic interactions within a diversity of 
environments. Combining our scientific leadership with 
extensive industrial engagement, we are designing some 
of the world’s most advanced robotics and autonomous 
systems with specialism in artificial intelligence and human 
robotic interaction. Our National Robotarium enables our 
engineers, physical and social scientists to deploy artificial 
intelligence to serve society. The hub will offer an integrated capability unique in 
the world, spearheading developments to revolutionise 
manufacturing, healthcare, offshore energy, construction, and 
marine science. 
Building on the GRID concept, we are harnessing both 
digital design and artificial intelligence in developing a smart 
construction centre in Dubai. In Orkney, we are building new 
community based research projects and energy systems 
integrating sensors and data science. 
Across all of our campuses, we aim to address major societal 
challenges through radical innovations from our research and 
community engagement.
Strategy 2025 — Page 21

Page 22 — Strategy 2025 
Our People –  
Shaping Tomorrow 
Together
Heriot-Watt is a truly global university: we 
have campuses across Scotland, in South East 
Asia and in the Middle East, and collaborative 
alliances with 85 academic partners in  
35 countries around the world.  
Our community is international, inter-cultural and 
interdisciplinary. Our students are problem-solvers, 
entrepreneurs-in-the-making who are globally-minded, 
public-spirited and inspired to shape our future world. Our 
research, knowledge exchange, teaching and learning are 
all globally focused and this ethos led to the accolade of 
International University of the Year from The Times and 
Sunday Times Good University Guide in 2018: we were the 
first institution to receive this award.
Our people are inventive, entrepreneurial and expert, with a 
shared ambition to be at the forefront of innovation which 
meets global challenges. They excel in research – over 
80% of academic staff are currently engaged in research at internationally recognised levels. They pioneer education and 
contribute to flourishing communities by driving economic 
impact and contributing to growth in every location where we 
are based.
We are expanding our global footprint, developing our 
international diversity and growing our multi-campus 
community; together with our 132,000 alumni, located in 
over 190 countries, we are a powerful engine of change, 
transforming business, industry and society across the world. 
Shaping tomorrow together, we are a global community of 
leaders in ideas and solutions.
Strategy 2025 — Page 23
VISION
MISSION
ETHOS
INSPIREVALUES STRATEGIC THEMESPIONEERING  
IN EDUCATIONEXCELLENCE  
IN RESEARCH AND ENTERPRISEFLOURISHING  
COMMUNITIES
A GLOBALLY CONNECTED UNIVERSITYCOLLABORATE BELONG CELEBRATE
Page 24 — Strategy 2025 
Measuring our 
Performance 
We monitor what we do to ensure  
we operate in ways which live up to 
our purpose. 
Our operational plans are monitored 
to assess performance of both 
normal business activities and special 
initiatives, with our annual planning 
process driving refinement of plans as 
we adapt to a changing environment. 
Our achievements are represented by a basket of strategic 
performance indicators (SPIs). The table illustrates how 
our strategy themes principally align with the strategic 
performance indicators. Our Strategy 2025 website 
(strategy2025.hw.ac.uk) details our SPIs and progress made 
to achieve them.Deliberately two SPIs require further definition by our 
University community to pioneer a bold, new global approach.
Environmental Sustainability  – in addition to ensuring 
delivery of any statutory environmental requirements across 
campus locations, we will develop: globally relevant targets 
for our emissions; our organisation practises and behaviours; 
and, importantly, to quantify the net societal and global 
impact of flagship ground breaking research projects and 
policies.
Inclusion and Wider Access  – we will grow accessibility of 
students to our graduate residential and on-line programmes. 
Although well defined in the UK, we will lead out in defining 
and progressing this in all our principal campus locations and 
other selected territories. 
Strategy 2025 — Page 25
2025 Strategic Performance Indicators
Theme Performance Indicator 2025 Target
Building Flourishing 
CommunitiesStaff Satisfaction Sector Upper Quartile
Economic Impact (Global) Double impact by 2025
Pioneering in EducationStudent Satisfaction Upper Quartile
Graduate Outcomes Top Decile
Inclusion and Wider AccessPioneer a sector leading 
global approach
Excelling in Research and 
EnterpriseWorld University Ranking Top 250
Research Grant Income Greater than £65m*
Environmental 
SustainabilityPioneer a sector leading 
global approach
Globally Connected 
UniversityIncome Scale and Growth Greater than £350m*
Operating Surplus Greater than 4%*
Resource Efficiency Greater than £150k*
*annually
Detailed definitions of these SPIs can be found on the Strategy 2025 website.
Strategy2025.hw.ac.uk
