1  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ
Strategic Plan 
2021-2024

3  4 EDITORIAL
6
 UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ FOUNDING VISION
8
 KEY MILESTONES FOR UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ
10
 STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
10
 Governance
12
 Education
18
 Research and knowledge transfer
24
 International relations
28
 Campus life and university life
34 Some key markersSommaire
4  
2021-2024 | STRATEGIC PLAN
Message  
from the President
 “ Université Paris Cité is built around 
an inspiring and ambitious academic 
project: an advanced research university 
at the heart of a vibrant city, covering all 
fields of knowledge, it fosters initiatives by 
bringing together the various communities 
that have gradually linked up during 
the last few years.” 
5  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉEditorial
The Université Paris Cité first year of existence, during which this strategic plan was drawn up, 
has be en impact ed by the  pandemic, requiring the whole community to contend with day-to-
day activ ities marked by unprecedented issues. 
In these particularly difficult circumstances for everyone, I would like to take this 
opportunity to pay tribute to the collective contribution made by every individual 
who has enabled us to move forward despite this. These moments of extreme individual 
uncertainty underline the importance of the values of collective engagement and public service 
that our University stands for. This sustained commitment has enabled us to continue to take 
significant  steps forward, while maintaining our focus on the core guidelines that frame our 
work. It is these major goals serving our students, serving research and serving society in 
general that this strategic plan wants to set out and clarify.
We are building Université Paris Cité as part of a long-term initiative. We have therefore 
chosen t o set ourselves an initial phase of work, through to 2024, to firmly anchor our 
governance and academic structuring, to establish our recognition and visibility, to consolidate 
our achievements and to identify the key areas of research and education that we will be 
looking to support. 
With t his in mind,  this  document sets out some initial core guidelines, some key choices, 
which are then rolled out from an operational perspective in the day-to-day decisions taken 
by our boards , as well as in the strategies for major transversal projects such as IDEX. It is the 
result of a collective effort carried out in particular when drawing up the contracts setting out 
the objectives and resources for the three faculties and the IPGP, thanks to the involvement 
of the French Senate, led by the Board of Directors. As soon as the circumstances allow us to do 
so again, it will be further enhanced through a participatory approach with everyone who would 
like t o be  part  of it.
Thank you to each and every person who has contributed to this strategic plan,  
and to all of you who bring Université Paris Cité missions and values to life each day.
Christine Clerici  
President of Université Paris Cité 
6  
2021-2024 | STRATEGIC PLANUniversité Paris Cité  
founding vision
The Université Paris Cité community is guided by a clear 
and ambitious vision: an intensive research university, 
whose activities supporting education, research and 
the sharing of knowledge are developed at the best level, 
serving society.
As a public university reporting to the French State, 
Université Paris Cité reports its activities independantly, 
focuses its strategy and resources to ensure the highest 
service to its students, the academic community 
and society at large.
This concept of service is a core part of our 
identity. It is the foundation for our pride at being 
part of Université Paris Cité as a committed and 
engaged institution that fully embraces its role 
to promote an inclusive, fair and open society:  
Committed to the success of its students.   
It offers original and demanding courses, with an 
open, international and multidisciplinary focus, 
adapted for its diverse community and widely 
appealing. It promotes the professional fulfilment and 
integration of students by developing educational 
innovation, training on and through research, as well 
as professional development training programmes.
A national and european r esearch operator. 
 It manages and oversees its research capabilities and 
strategy liaising with the various research organisations 
and Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP). 
It offers a competitive and high-quality research 
environment, supports  
its staff with their projects, and promotes innovation,  
capitalising on strong disciplines and 
an interdisciplinary approach.Open to its environment,  from the local 
neighbourhoods where its campuses are located 
through to the international community, as well as the 
city of Paris and its region. It is ramping up a range of 
interfaces with a view to developing the distribution 
of knowledge, community engagement among 
its students and staff, and collaborative projects 
liaising with the city and the region. It encourages 
interactions between scientific communities, 
facilitates exchanges with socioeconomic partners 
and contributes to societal development;
A diverse community and Campus Life.  
It encourages students to engage in their campus 
and building their future pathways, supports 
the professional development of its staff, and 
actively advocates equality in all its forms.
International and European focus.  
It attracts students and staff from across France, 
Europe and around the world. It is supported 
by its networks to encourage the circulation of 
people and exchanging of ideas. Its outstanding 
reputation ensures the visibility of its research 
and the recognition of its qualifications.
7  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉMULTIDISCIPLINARY UNIVERSITY 
ALIGNED WITH SOCIETY’S NEEDS  
One of the major assets supporting this 
vision is linked to the academic profile guided 
by the disciplines covered by Université 
Paris Cité for training and research. 
With unrivalled potential for health, positioning it 
as one of Europe’s leading universities in this area, 
it also covers all of the major disciplinary fields for 
sciences, engineering, humanities and social sciences. 
This range of expertise is unmatched in Paris’ other 
multidisciplinary research universities, and enables it 
to develop its approaches both within and between 
the various disciplines. This interdisciplinarity is 
one of the longstanding assets of Université Paris 
Cité academic community and can be harnessed to 
support the various developments facing our society, 
from climate issues to new approaches to healthcare, 
artificial intelligence and the digital revolution.
Its position at the heart of Paris, and its relationships 
built up across Paris, the Paris Region, France and 
around the world enable it to be closely aligned with 
societal needs and the new requirements addressed 
today in terms of training, research and innovation.
KEY CHALLENGES FOR THE PERIOD  
As expected, this first phase in Université 
Paris Cité existence is all about putting 
the foundations in place. 
We face a huge challenge to continue moving forward 
with the transformation launched and to translate our 
shared vision into the day-to-day organisation of the 
various activities that make up our core business.
From research to education and knowledge transfer, 
we need to effectively build our Université Paris Cité  
community, benefiting from all of the research units, 
departments, training and research units (UFR) and 
schools, and led by the three faculties and the IPGP.During this intense period of construction and 
transformation, our entire University community 
is engaged to build the research and training 
projects both within and between our faculties. 
These academic projects are supported by the  new 
model for structuring Université Paris Cité, with  strategic 
central bodies and strong faculties, as close as 
possible to the research units and components, 
for increased agility and responsiveness.
The first years are essential in order to define 
our cultural traits and how we do things. We are 
embracing our collective responsibility to resolutely 
embody the choices that will mark the future 
of Université Paris Cité.  This makes it necessary to find 
the right balance between the essential awareness of the 
societal issues that we have a duty to contribute towards 
and resolute support for progress with knowledge 
guided by curiosity, open to taking risks, sensitive to the 
long timeframes involved with developing knowledge.
It also involves making the right choices for the 
publication and distribution of research results 
and data, while ensuring a faultless approach to 
scientific integrity and ethics, in accordance with the 
principles from the European Human Resources Strategy 
for Researchers (HRS4R) label. As a public university, 
we must give ourselves the resources needed to uphold, 
while respecting privacy issues, the principles of open 
science and knowledge sharing, which are specifically 
reflected in the publication and archiving models  
that we adopt.
This also means performing our scientific culture 
distribution and scientific mediation role, within 
a society that is increasingly dependent on scientific 
advances, but sometimes struggles to embody these 
values in public debates. From training to research 
and knowledge transfer, all of our activities are directly 
concerned by this issue: each student that we train 
on critical thinking and reasoning, each result that we 
publish in accordance with the principles of openness 
and objective debate, each contractual research project 
or each public expertise mission must take these stakes 
on board.multidisciplinaryEuropean university
international focusdiversity / equality 
contributing to societal challengesinnovation
at the heart of Parisserving citizens, the city, the region 
sustainabilityopen campusesinclusion
8  
2021-2024 | STRATEGIC PLANKey milestones  
for Université Paris Cité
Université Paris 
Descartes and 
université Paris 
Diderot are created, 
after the former 
Université Paris Cité 
was dissolved.1970
The Institute  
of global physics 
is created within 
Université de Paris.
1921The Institute of global 
physics becomes an 
independent structure 
with legal status.
1990
9  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉThe ComUE Université 
Sorbonne Paris Cité 
replaces the PRES 
Higher Education and 
Research Hub.
The decree creating 
Université Paris Cité is 
published.IPGP, université 
Paris Descartes and 
université Paris 
Diderot decide 
to work to build 
Université Paris Cité. 
The ComUE members 
form the Sorbonne 
Paris Cité Alliance.The Sorbonne Paris 
Cité Higher Education 
and Research Hub 
(PRES) is created with 
Université Sorbonne 
Nouvelle, université 
Paris Descartes, 
Université Paris 
Diderot, SciencesPo, 
EHESP, Inalco and 
IPGP, as well as 
Université Paris 13 as 
an associate member.
Université Paris 
Descartes and 
université Paris 
Diderot cease to exist 
with the transition 
to Université Paris 
Cité, in which IPGP 
becomes a component 
institution.20102017
20202014
2019
10  STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Governance
These first strategic guidelines are the plan is the plan 
to establish Université Paris Cité governance and 
organisation model. Thanks to a major transformation 
effort led by the entire community, this new model 
targets a balance between the consistency of the overall 
strategic vision and the initiative within each faculty.
ROLLING OUT THE NEW FACULTY SET-UP 
From 2021 to 2024, the three newly created 
faculties will continue to be built, alongside 
the IPGP: the decentralisation of administrative 
services at faculty level will continue moving forward, 
in addition to pooling transversal resources to try to 
position each process at the right level. This extensive 
work, which will continue to be rolled out over the 
coming years, offers an opportunity to facilitate 
procedures, establish an e-administration approach, 
and, more generally, improve the quality of service 
provided for the University’s students and staff.REAL ESTATE RENOVATION PROJECTS  
Data management is fundamental: on the one 
hand, internal data management - harmonising 
data from the two founding institutions and 
arrangements to ensure reliability; data shared 
between central and faculty-level departments to 
give more independence to the faculties - and on the 
other hand, management targeting the University’s 
positioning in the world of higher education and 
research and with economic stakeholders.  Establishing 
the University within a quality-assessment approach 
and… effectively mapping the University’s quality 
processes will be the first step towards a global 
quality approach. The information system master 
plan will be rolled out directly in line with this 
development of the organisation and processes, 
and will also ensure better steering and management, 
supporting the governance of the entire University.
For our buildings, facilities and campuses, 
the real estate roadmap that is currently being 
drawn up will set out the general framework 
for the deployment of projects proposed  as part 
of the State-Region Planning Contract (CPER) 
in particular, including medium-term projects, such 
as the CHU Saint Ouen Paris Nord university campus, 
projects proposed in connection with the renovation 
of Tarnier with work underway to create a Women’s 
Institute, or the fitting out of new spaces to welcome 
startups.

11  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉSUPPORTING THE TRANSFORMATION  
For human resources, looking beyond 
the workplace wellness efforts mentioned above, 
Université Paris Cité will focus on the stakes 
involved with training staff: a training plan that 
is more ambitious in terms of both volumes and 
objectives will make it possible to anticipate changes 
in requirements and activities, to accompany staff to 
develop their skills and to propose rewarding career 
paths with internal development opportunities.Alongside the structuring of the Faculties, 
Université Paris Cité will work to promote 
a transversal approach, supporting cross-faculty 
initiatives based on multidisciplinary skills.
Université Paris Cité will also capitalise on its 
Foundation, created in spring 2020, to support 
research and education initiatives with strong social 
impacts, which can benefit from support from patrons 
or partners. The Foundation will make it possible 
to accelerate research projects that aim to prepare 
our society for the major changes that lie ahead.
The Saint Ouen university-hospital campus project opening in 2028
12  Education
In terms of education, our strategic vision is built 
around a strong focus on excellence for all: able to serve 
its students in all their diversity with high standards, 
Université Paris Cité offers attractive training programmes, 
open to the world, aligned with contemporary issues, 
promoting innovation and a multidisciplinary approach.STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Plateforme de simulation en odontologie.
13  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉMajor ambitions
With 31,000 undergraduate students, 13,800 postgraduate students and 7,700 doctoral 
students, Université Paris Cité offers a rich and diverse selection of national qualifications, 
specific qualifications and lifelong learning opportunities. Each programme’s specific 
educational goals are discussed in depth at faculty and department levels, respecting 
a number of key principles:
ENHANCING MULTIDISCIPLINARITY   
Université Paris Cité wants to facilitate a 
multidisciplinary approach within its courses,  
which is already one of its core strengths and will 
be further developed over the coming years. The 
challenge is to train students with new profiles at the 
interface between several disciplines, responding to 
and encouraging their curiosity faced with our societal 
transformations. 
As an intensive research university, Université Paris 
Cité naturally positions research-based learning as 
another key feature of its educational approach,  
targeting not only education for research, but more 
generally intellectual and critical learning which can be 
valuable for a very wide range of careers. This involves 
building closer links between training and research with 
a focus on excellence, so that research findings can be 
incorporated into the master’s programmes, and the 
methodological principles and values of research 
can be positioned as integral parts of the intellectual 
foundations for all students, from undergraduate 
to doctorate, whatever their career plans.EXPANDING OUR COURSE OFFERINGS   
Université Paris Cité already offers a wide range 
of recognised professional development training 
programmes, b enefiting from links to research 
and close connections with the business world. 
The relevance of this type of training is increasingly 
evident in a context of rapid changes in careers and 
skills. Building on its experience in this area, Université 
Paris Cité will encourage all initiatives that further 
strengthen connections between university training 
and the business world, from apprenticeship initiatives 
through to training conditions that facilitate access for a 
professional audience, with a focus on lifelong learning.
Lastly, being open to the world is an integral part 
of the training approach promoted by Université 
Paris Cité, which involves working on the content 
of the various programmes, the mobility opportunities 
offered and foreign language courses.

14  Objectives to achieve 
these ambitions
  MULTIDISCIPLINARY  
In terms of supporting a multidisciplinary approach, 
Université Paris Cité can capitalise on various 
arrangements that already exist within it, as well 
as initiatives carried out with partner institutions, 
as illustrated by the Bachelor of Arts and Sciences 
developed with Sciences Po or the Multidisciplinary 
Higher Education Cycle (CPES) - hybrid between 
preparatory classes and university - developed with 
Lycée Janson de Sailly high school.
Université Paris Cité will notably continue to 
support the creation of dual and joint degrees, 
and to offer possibilities for students to continue with 
a master’s degree under the same conditions, which 
involves creating dual masters or developing dedicated 
pathways.
The widespread introduction of the major / minor 
approach at degree level is also possible .  
A backbone, corresponding to a core foundation of 
disciplinary skills and knowledge as part of the major, 
can be combined with additional training in another 
discipline for students who choose this option, 
opening them up to other methods and enabling new 
educational approaches to be developed.  RESEARCH-BASED LEARNING   
As a key feature of all of the courses offered 
by Université Paris Cité, research-based learning 
can notably be supported in connection with 
the creation of University Research Schools (EUR), 
funded by the French Investments for the Future 
Programme (PIA).  
Based on the observation that the ultimate 
opportunities for master’s and PhD graduates 
are not limited to just academic research,  
the project aims to develop University Research 
Schools, backed by the University’s strong scientific 
pillars. The knowledge and skills developed by 
students as part of their training are ideal preparation 
for academic careers or senior positions in all sectors 
of society. These projects are also a privileged forum 
for collaboration with the national organisations 
and the AP-HP, to offer internship venues together.
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
15  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ  QUALITY OF TEACHING   
The quality of teaching for the various courses is 
naturally at the heart of the Université Paris Cité 
project, built around three strong pillars:
Continuing to develop innovative educational 
approaches. This means enabling our teaching staff, 
with support from educational engineers, to  develop 
new projects in an appropriate environment, and 
to test new approaches, whether or not they are 
based on digital tools.  This educational innovation 
must also be able to be developed by sharing 
best practices: Université Paris Cité will put in 
place arrangements to promote exchanges within 
communities and facilitate the emergence and 
distribution of innovative projects, to improve 
gateways and communication between disciplines, 
and to further strengthen connections within our 
University community, in line with the initiatives already 
launched by Université Paris Cité with its partners: 
simulation-based learning, opening up paramedical 
courses to the human and social sciences, etc.;Meeting the primary need of teachers-
researchers to develop a quality education: 
streamlining the administrative and logistics 
functions to enable them to focus on distributing 
knowledge and education, particularly for recently 
recruited teachers-researchers. This also involves 
further strengthening the arrangements for training, 
creating value, developing skills and building loyalty 
among administrative staff, while modernising 
the administrative services by redefining certain 
education support roles, and moving forward with 
the widespread adoption of paperless processes;
Developing the management tools, information 
systems and monitoring tools to make it easier 
to monitor students and support their success:   
systematically setting up learning contracts, monitoring 
statistics for student success, monitoring their ongoing 
education and professional integration, and continuing 
to roll out the e-portfolio currently put in place for 
health students.
iLumens healthcare simulation, an innovative pedagogical platform associated with numerous partners
16    LIFELONG LEARNING  
The distribution of innovative academic practices 
and the integration of research findings at all levels 
of training must include continuing professional 
development programmes.  
We therefore want to support the education teams 
with drawing up a stronger policy to promote lifelong 
learning in order to better accompany people who 
are working or part of professional redeployment 
programmes, and better respond to growing 
demand for this type of training in its various forms: 
short qualifying training programmes, certified 
training courses, validation of experience (VAE), etc. 
The faculties must have the resources enabling them 
to monitor emerging technological developments with 
a view to identifying new skillsets and future careers, 
regularly adapting the content of the short-term 
and research-based training programmes. Strong 
training and educational engineering support is vital 
to accompany this adaptability for professional training 
programmes.  ACCESS TO KNOWLEDGE FOR ALL   
To effectively take up its position within France’s 
capital city, Université Paris Cité will encourage, 
looking beyond its qualifying training courses, 
access to knowledge for all, whether by continuing 
to develop its University For All or opening up access to 
its courses to free auditors from all backgrounds. In this 
area, the university access diplomas (DAEU) and the 
section for imprisoned students who can train with 
Université Paris Cité illustrate a strong commitment 
to opening up the University to all audiences, with 
this commitment to be built on for the long term.
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
17  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ  GLOBAL MINDSET   
In a context in which being open to the world 
is a crucial component of training programmes, 
Université Paris Cité:
•  will continue to develop its foreign language 
courses, and enable courses to be taught in 
foreign languages  languages - by promoting 
a multifaceted approach to the issue of languages 
and cultures - looking beyond just English;
•  will develop a clear and attractive selection 
of courses for international student s, which, 
at the same time, will enable them to improve 
their French, if necessary, and learn about French 
culture, as Université Paris Cité is a French-speaking 
international university;
•  will facilitate and develop international mobility.  STRENGTHENED LINKS  
  WITH THE SOCIO-ÉCONOMIC WORLD  
As Université Paris Cité was created only recently, 
promoting its range of courses with students 
and employers represents a specific challenge,  
and we need to work on improving the clarity 
and transparency of our training programmes, 
which is required to facilitate recruitment, career 
guidance and professional integration for our students. 
The development of our alumni networks will provide 
significant support in this area.

18  Research and knowledge 
transfer
As an intensive research university, and one of the top 
performers in France in the Leiden Ranking, Université 
de Paris has a duty to continue to develop an outstanding 
scientific environment in order to attract the best talents 
within its 126 research units. With a shared vision of excellence 
from fundamental research through to applied research, 
it encourages the development of knowledge serving major 
contemporary challenges and supports all initiatives enabling 
a rapid transfer of research results.
BECOMING A RECOGNISED RESEARCH 
OPERATOR  
This research operator role supports our 
responsibilities as a public research university 
in today’s world.  
Faced with the global challenges represented by 
the environmental crisis and inequalities, as well as 
the status of rational and critical thinking in the public 
arena, Université Paris Cité wants to be a forum for 
cultivating knowledge combined with the freedom 
to innovate and explore the limits of knowledge,  
and a culture serving society.PROMOTING NEW DISCIPLINES  
Université Paris Cité wants to promote the 
conditions enabling the various disciplines to 
develop, renew and enrich one another in order 
to offer new experiences, theories, models, 
approaches and knowledge. The aim is to develop 
the areas of knowledge without which there cannot be 
any innovation, as well as to develop our understanding 
of the world, to offer a space where the prime criterion 
for the validity of a message is its search for the 
truth and where we allow ourselves the time needed 
to examine and compare the arguments involved.Major ambitions
The major political focus for these first years of existence is to set out Université 
de Paris’ position as a leading research operator that manages its strategy and capabilities, 
through dialogue with its partners - research organisations, including INSERM, CNRS, IRD, 
universities and the AP-HP.STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
19  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ
Our community benefits from 
well-established and world-renowned 
disciplines:   
• Mathematics and IT   
•  Life sciences and health, in which we are 
one of Europe’s leading research hubs 
•  Physics and materials chemistry 
•  Earth and universe sciences 
•  Human and social sciences, with rich 
intellectual traditions and diverse 
epistemological positionsWe also provide original positionings  
at the interfaces between disciplines:  
• I interface between chemistry/biology, 
chemistry/physics, biology/IT 
• Mathematics/IT 
•  Continuum between fundamental research 
and translational research for health 
• Environment  
•  Combination of sciences, technology and 
human and social sciences around global 
health or environmental issues; artificial 
intelligence and data science serving diverse 
disciplines 
•  Epistemology and the history of science 
and technologyFOSTERING COLLABORATIONS  
In a context in which international cooperation is 
sometimes called into question,  we want to advocate 
an open vision for science, within which international 
collaboration in particular helps ensure quality, 
efficiency and effectiveness, as well as the social 
relevance of the knowledge developed.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT  
These objectives of excellence, engagement 
and openness go hand-in-hand with an objective 
to attract research staff:  Université Paris Cité must 
guarantee a very high-quality research environment, 
with arrangements in place to support and accompany 
its academic staff at the various stages in their careers 
in line with the HRS4R principles, from the professional 
integration of current and former PhD students to the 
development of independence for young researchers 
and support for fundamental projects led by senior 
researchers.STRENGTHENING TIES WITH THE PUBLIC  
Lastly, we want to support the development of 
activities to transfer knowledge and create value 
through research.  From partner-based research 
activities and R&D developed with private partners, 
particularly in the science and health sectors, through 
to activities to develop expertise and distribute 
knowledge led by the humanities and social sciences, 
we have significant experience in this field that we will 
be able to capitalise on and grow.
To support these ambitions, Université Paris Cité 
is able to count on a number of key assets
20    CREATING NEW SYNERGIES  
Our University was created very recently: 
specifically, we need to get to know one another 
better and offer opportunities for all our research 
staff to explore the possibilities for collaboration 
that exist within Université Paris Cité. 
We will therefore be looking to build the spaces 
that enable our researchers, teachers-researchers, 
administrative and technical staff to meet up 
around areas of common interest and find ways 
to launch new collaborative initiatives. This scientific 
coordination and support work for emerging 
projects will be based on efforts to map our 
scientific activity, in order to have a fine-grained 
and up-to-date image of our research fields, and will 
focus in particular on promoting our strong areas 
of expertise in connection with the University Research 
Schools (EUR) for instance, which will be rolled out 
across all of our postgraduate programmes.  SUPPORT TO MEET YOUR NEEDS  
This desire to accompany new initiatives will also 
guide our support policy, which will be structured 
around a number of core pillars:
Support for the scientific platforms and facilities 
is a priority, with the Scientific Platforms and 
Facilities Committee, making it possible to highlight 
the outstanding potential of our research libraries, 
platforms and facilities. The mapping and labelling 
initiatives that are underway will support this 
structuring effort and guide their development over 
time, liaising with the national research organisations 
and the AP-HP;
The “Emergences” call for projects will continue 
to offer support for new projects, alongside 
the various funding opportunities that exist at national 
level (notably with the ANR national research agency 
calls) and European level (notably with the new Horizon 
Europe programme):Objectives to achieve 
these ambitions
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
21  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉThe support for interdisciplinary initiatives will 
continue moving forward. Conceived and designed 
as research institutes without walls that link the 
contributions of different disciplinary communities 
and approaches together around a socially relevant 
theme, there are nine of these institutes to date: Earth 
Politics Center, Global Research Institute of Paris, 
The Medical Person, Data Intelligence Institute of Paris, 
La Cité du Genre, Institut des Défis, Institut Covid-19 
Ad Memoriam, Institut de Santé Publique de Paris, 
Université Paris Cité Spatial Centre;
Our knowledge transfer activities are essential  
sin order to position Université Paris Cité as 
a contributor to major contemporary social 
transformations. We will be able to capitalise on recent 
initiatives developed with the CNRS, INSERM, SATT and 
AP-HP when relevant, such as the one-stop-shop for 
early-stage knowledge transfer;We will structure the instruments for welcoming 
and supporting newly recruited staff or staff 
benefiting from dedicated arrangements to allow time 
for research, so that they can rapidly develop their 
research projects and find the support they need;
Lastly, we will develop initiatives supporting 
open science on the one hand (by deploying the 
infrastructures that enable research results and data to 
be published, as well as supporting scientific mediation 
and participatory science initiatives), while promoting 
scientific integrity and ethics on the other hand.
Supporting scientific platforms and equipment is a prority. The white room : Faculty of Science - Physics Department
22    A HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE OFFER  
In addition to new recruits, major efforts 
over the coming years will focus on improving 
the working environment for research staff. 
The major initiative in this area aims to effectively 
put in place the research organisation at central 
level and in the faculties. The aim is to be able 
to offer the best level of service on the few key 
points for research work: support for setting up 
and managing projects, support for organising 
scientific events, support for translating articles, 
as well as the implementation of best practices for data 
management, analysis and openness. This work to 
organise our services is the prerequisite for a sustained 
effort to improve our processes, simplify day-to-day 
life for our teams and enable them to focus on their 
research work.To support the priority focus on research and 
knowledge transfer activities, we will continue to 
develop tools supporting the initiatives from the 
laboratories and from external partners: from better 
funding for early-stage knowledge transfer through 
to more in-depth support for our startups, the 
deployment of support services for partnership-based 
research and the opening up of our platforms 
to external partners, we will continue building on 
the efforts made in the last few years to simplify 
and professionalise the transfer support provided. 
The Université Paris Cité Foundation will contribute 
to this effort to ramp up the interfaces between the 
University and private partners.
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
« Paris, as a capital city, is the 
central region for Research 
and Development in France, 
Université Paris Cité aims to 
be a key partner for policy 
makers » 
23  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ  A SOLID PRESENCE  
Another key instrument with our scientific policy 
will involve working to structure our research units 
and our policies at various levels of relevance:
An initial internal level within Université Paris Cité:  
in certain areas, work is underway to organise 
the various topics for research with a view to creating 
visible centres or research federations (typically 
in healthcare around diabetes or sciences around 
chemistry) - we will support this work so that it can move 
forward and continue to evolve over time;
A second level concerns relations with our other 
partner universities in Paris. Université Paris Cité 
stands out through the level and intensity of its 
collaboration with other universities, from sciences and 
healthcare (notably with Sorbonne University, Paris 
Sciences & Lettres, Université Paris Saclay) to humanities 
and social sciences (notably with partners involved 
in the Condorcet campus project). These collaboration 
initiatives represent a major asset and a rich source 
of diversity and renewal for our teams;A third essential level concerns the work to be 
carried out with the national research organisations,  
such as INSERM, CNRS and IRD, as well as INRIA, 
supporting the site strategy, and the AP-HP. The sharing 
around the scientific strategies of these organisations 
should make it possible to create ambitious projects, 
at European and international level, and to develop 
iconic structures for innovation, such as Paris BioTech 
Santé, the Meary project at Hôpital Saint-Louis, 
and the Biolabs project at Hôtel-Dieu;
A fourth level concerns Université Paris Cité 
position within the coordination of the national 
scientific policy. Université Paris Cité wants to work 
with its partners, particularly within the association 
of intensive research universities (Udice), liaising 
with the corresponding networks at European level 
(German U15, Russell Group) and around the world 
(Canadian U15 Ivy League, C8);
Lastly, a fifth level concerns the links with the 
scientific policies of our region and city. A capital 
university, at the heart of France’s leading R&D region, 
Université Paris Cité wants to be a preferred stakeholder 
for public policy matters in order to ensure that its 
research is aligned with local and regional stakes.

24  International relations
From its founding institutions and the various IDEX initiatives, 
Université Paris Cité has inherited a rich network of partnerships, 
in terms of both laboratories and training programmes, as well as 
at institutional level. The University’s creation makes it possible 
to take a new step forward and capitalise on these achievements 
to≈develop the consistency of our international strategy for training 
and research. The international dimension transcends all activities 
across Université Paris Cité: from training, when it involves preparing 
students for integration and global issues that will impact their 
professional and personal lives, to research, where collaboration 
is naturally part of the global arena, while inclusion in the HRS4R 
programme helps ensure an attractive position for recruiting.  
At the crossroads between Northern and Southern Europe,  
Université Paris Cité intends to take up its position as one 
of the best research-focused universities in Europe. The European 
Higher Education Transformation Agenda (HETA) programme 
is helping gradually put in place a single higher education area 
and an interconnected dichotomisation of international relations 
between Europe and the rest of the world. 
Major ambitions
In terms of training, the University’s ambitions are focused on an ambitious general 
horizon: empowering all students from all disciplines and all levels to open up  
to the world ‑ whether through physical mobility (studying or internships), 
thextraining conditions adopted or the development of training content.  
This general goal is broken down in various ways, depending on the level of studies.
DEVELOP NEW MOBILITY OPPORTUNITIES  
At Bachelor’s level, one major goal is to improve 
the opportunities offered for physical mobility, 
in terms of both their quantity, with more options 
for exchanges available to students, and their quality, 
with better follow-up on the students’ experience 
during their exchange. However, aware of the fact  that not everyone will choose or be able to take 
up opportunities for physical mobility during their 
course, we will carry out a major review into the 
internationalisation of the courses themselves, with 
our ambition for Université Paris Cité to be open to the 
world at its campus in Paris.STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
25  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉThe European programme 
« Transformation Agenda 
of higher education » 
contributes to the 
progressive creation of a 
single higher education 
area and a interconnected 
dichotomisation of 
international relations 
between Europe and the rest 
of the world.At Master’s and Doctorate level, we will look to 
further strengthen our range of “international 
courses”, i.e. programmes that are thought out 
specifically to welcome students who are not exclusively 
French, especially in areas where the close alignment 
with our research capabilities enables us to offer 
particularly attractive programmes. Depending 
on the disciplines and levels, this policy will benefit 
from being strategically focused on European 
integration and certain geographical areas or certain 
partners with which we have already established 
relationships (e.g. West Africa and China for health 
studies, the University of Science and Technology 
of Hanoi for sciences, French-speaking countries 
forhumanities and social sciences, etc.). 
In the specific case of PhD students, who are trained 
within a fully internationalised research world, we will 
look, where possible, to position physical mobility as a 
systematic part of our programmes.
FOSTER INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATIONS  
In terms of research, the challenge with 
international development involves enabling 
each researcher and each laboratory to work with 
their most relevant counterparts,  whether they 
are located in France or other countries. Our primary 
goal is to support researchers’ initiatives, by providing 
the right level of structuring and developing support 
for setting up and managing calls for projects. This 
makes it possible to develop specific institutional 
partnerships, such as with King’s College in London for instance or Oxford University, as well as NUS in 
Singapore. For Université Paris Cité, our international 
focus will continue to be one of the factors guiding us 
to develop and capitalise on our links and synergies 
with the institutions that are part of the Sorbonne Paris 
Cité Alliance (e.g. with NUS) and research organisations 
(e.g. with the CNRS for Canada and NUS, with the IRD 
and INSERM for Africa, etc.).
EUROPE : OUR SECOND CAMPUS  
In terms of both research and training, Europe has 
a particular position within Université Paris Cité 
international strategy, both because this is the natural 
horizon for our research strategy, and because this is 
also where a university model is being built in line with 
contemporary needs: the development of the Circle 
U.. initiative is an outstanding example of these spaces 
for experimenting with new training and research 
models. In partnership with Humboldt University, King’s 
College, UCLouvain, Aarhus University, the University 
of Belgrade and the University of Oslo, Université Paris 
Cité has, with Circle U., an essential space making it 
possible to radically develop the internationalisation 
of our students, to promote collaborative research 
projects around societal issues and, more widely, to 
help transform the European higher education and 
research area. With three knowledge hubs set up around 
global health, environmental and sustainability issues, 
and democracy issues, Circle U. is enabling Université 
Paris Cité to develop training and research aligned with 
contemporary needs, positioned from the outset on a 
European scale.

26    DEVELOPING OUR REPUTATION  
A first instrument supporting our international 
policy relates to communication. As a newly 
created University, Université Paris Cité needs to work 
very quickly to establish international recognition 
for its≈name, which is an asset for both its students  
and its staff. Specific communication work will make 
it possible to promote our University’s profile 
and strengths, in France and around the world. 
The University’s inclusion in the major international 
research networks will help establish this reputation 
more quickly, for example through our active 
participation in the Guild or the Association 
of European Universities, followed in the future 
by international research university networks,  
such as the International Alliance of Research 
Universities (IARU).  SIMPLIFIED PROCESSES   
In terms of training, capitalising on our existing 
partnerships and achievements, we will work to 
facilitate the approaches and procedures required 
when setting up agreements. In the specific case of 
dual degrees, which represent a useful tool, but are 
complex to put in place and operate, we will look to 
further strengthen the expertise needed.
In terms of research, where international relations 
are largely dependent on individual initiatives by 
teacher-researchers, Université Paris Cité will look to 
support the seed and startup arrangements in place to 
launch emerging collaboration initiatives, while working 
on the speed of the processes for setting up contracts 
with international PhD and post-PhD researchers. 
The close links between staff supporting international 
relations at faculty level with the central International 
Relations Department will be a key factor in this area. 
This work also requires a sufficiently fine-grained and 
up-to-date vision of the initiatives underway to ensure 
that it is easy to scale up when relevant. Lastly, it will be 
important to fund exploratory missions with a view to 
structuring promising partnerships.Objectives to achieve  
these ambitions
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
27  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ
  ATTRACTIVE INTERNATIONAL   
DEVELOPMENT POLICIES  
The visiting fellows policy, a crucial instrument 
for international development aligned as closely as 
possible with the research units, will continue to be 
developed, taking particular care to ensure that it can 
also benefit the internationalisation of our Master’s and 
PhD students.
Supporting our physical mobility goals, we will 
develop and structure our incoming and outgoing 
scholarships at Master’s level, especially outgoing at 
Bachelor’s level - capitalising on the MIEM and MIRES 
scholarship programmes, set up in the last few years. 
The University Research Schools (EUR) funded by the 
French Investments for the Future Programme (PIA) will 
be a key element to develop and structure this policy at 
Master’s and Doctorate level.  AN AMBITIOUS HOSTING POLICY  
The success of our international policy starts on 
our campus: drawing on our existing assets, we 
will continue to structure our services to welcome 
international visitors and develop language and 
intercultural skills, particularly for our staff who are 
regularly in contact with international students or 
teachers-researchers. The dedicated international 
office, which is part of the “Welcome to France” strategy 
led by Campus France, is a significant element in 
this area. Promoting mobility for staff who are not in 
teacher-researcher positions will also be a way to open 
us up to international practices across all our activities.
« The success of the 
international policy begins 
on site, notably in the 
development of language 
and intercultural skills. » 
28  Campus life 
and university life
Openness, inclusion, respect for diversity and equality 
in all its forms, which are integral parts of Université Paris Cité 
global strategic vision, are particularly relevant when it comes 
to campus life and university life. For this first strategic plan 
for Université Paris Cité, we will naturally focus on developing 
the quality of life and work across all our campuses.
STUDENT WELLBEING  
Committed to ensuring the fulfilment of its 
students, looking beyond their learning experience 
itself, and creating the conditions for a vibrant 
student life, Université Paris Cité has a policy 
built around three pillars: health and wellbeing, 
accommodation, and associations and cultural life.
Improving the living conditions of students firstly 
involves providing good information and guidance 
on a daily basis. For this, we will use a range of digital 
tools (e.g. chatbots, dedicated app, etc.) and physical 
arrangements (e.g. kiosks, boards, assistants, etc.). 
With the University Health Department, we will also 
focus on physical and psychological health aspects, by 
developing the care options provided and rolling out 
prevention arrangements across the board.
Student housing in the Paris Region is a recurring 
issue that Université Paris Cité is addressing with its 
partners. One priority concerns the development of an 
emergency accommodation solution, with appropriate 
social support. More generally, in terms of developing 
the supply available, we will continue working with our 
partners: CROUS, associations, major landlords.As Université Paris Cité campuses and sites 
are geographically spread out and diverse,  
the third pillar, focused on promoting sports 
and association life, is vital to further strengthen 
the quality of our student experience. Possibilities 
to broaden their horizons by discovering different 
cultures, being part of associations and feeling 
connected to the Université Paris Cité community 
are also important for student wellbeing. Here,  
we will focus on our rich offering and its geographical 
coverage to ensure that all of the campuses are 
covered. We will also take particular care with 
the effective coordination and linking of initiatives 
for the University and at faculty level.
To learn more about the specific proposals 
and initiatives being developed, please visit 
thededicated “Campus Life” pages on our website.STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
29  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉWORKPLACE WELLNESS 
The issue of workplace wellness is essential 
for Université Paris Cité in order to further 
strengthen its attractive positioning and sustainably 
ensure a high-quality professional environment 
for our staff. Four key areas for work stand out 
for the coming years.
The first key area involves developing professional 
support and training for staff:  setting up 
individualised training will be a core feature of 
the plan to improve the quality of life at work, with 
stronger support for academic and administrative 
staff and arrangements aligned with each profile 
(professional integration for post-doctoral fellows, 
ability to retain lecturers, support for young recruits, 
development of talents for staff in the middle of their 
careers, continuing professional development training 
to enable teaching staff to develop their teaching 
practices, support to develop independence for 
research, help to take on responsibilities, etc.). The second key area involves capitalising on the 
training and research expertise of our researchers, 
teachers-researchers and PhD students to develop 
assistance and support services for staff: legal clinic, 
psychological support, etc.
The third area involves creating connections: 
ensuring that the cultural offering is not thought 
out exclusively from an individualised approach,  
but offers opportunities to create connections between 
Université Paris Cité staff, by supporting collective 
and social initiatives and enabling staff to take part 
in creating this offering (e.g. focus days, rallies, 
collective outdoor sports activities, etc.).
Lastly, the fourth area concerns the accessibility 
of services, such as sport or dining, in a context 
in which our Université Paris Cité campuses are 
geographically spread out. The idea is to ensure that 
the various offers are adapted for this specific situation 
(e.g. offering online sports classes, alternative solutions 
for staff who do not have easy access to the collective 
dining sites, etc.).
Université Paris Cité has over 500 000 m2 of campus grounds within Paris and its surrounding areas
30  EQUALITY  
While the quality of research and training 
programmes can be shared with other universities, 
Université Paris Cité exemplary equality positioning 
and proactive policy will enable it to stand out from 
comparable institutions with its original approach.
Université Paris Cité has already set out its strong 
commitment to building an inclusive university 
for all, rejecting all forms of discrimination. We have 
a range of actions in this area, illustrated by the recent 
implementation of the HRS4R label for recruiting 
academic staff, our disability roadmap (2021-2025) 
and the creation of an ÉgalitéS equality mission and a 
network of correspondents in the faculties.
To ensure the sustainability of this commitment, 
the main areas for action proposed are as follows:
Further strengthening and structuring the 
equality network, made up of the ÉgalitéS mission, 
correspondents in the faculties / components, in the 
central departments and campus and association 
life (particularly for female students). The ÉgalitéS 
equality mission will need to have means to ensure this 
coordination, which will make it possible to improve 
the overall consistency of our actions and encourage 
new ones, benefiting our entire university community. 
It will present a regular review to the governing bodies, in accordance with the requirements of the French 
research planning law (LPR). Elle présentera un bilan 
régulier devant les instances, conformément aux 
exigences mentionnées dans la LPR.
Equality will effectively be taken into account 
in the contracts setting out the objectives and 
resources for the faculties and the IPGP. Research 
into inequalities will be developed, as mentioned in the 
French research planning law (LPR), thanks in particular 
to La Cité du Genre. A cross-disciplinary call for tenders 
will also be looked into.
Social support measures will be ramped up, 
particularly for students (emergency accommodation, 
Université Paris Cité social scholarships). A series of 
initiatives aimed at closing the pay gap between men 
and women, ensuring equality for career advancement 
and successful studying, and ensuring a work-home 
life balance will be launched, with impacts on the 
institution’s HR policy and beyond (see requirements 
for European Commission calls for projects).
Psychological support and prevention actions 
with students, as well as staff, will be further 
strengthened. Similar steps will be taken for building 
awareness and providing training on issues relating to 
inequality in all its forms or harassment, particularly 
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
31  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉwith students and staff who have responsibilities 
or have recently been recruited (see free EU project 
on equality, mentoring for female PhD students, 
initiatives to raise awareness on unconscious bias 
for recruitment, etc.). Training on “inclusive learning” 
will be offered to the educational teams and the 
corresponding tools will be made available to everyone.
Access to information (in French and English and on 
appropriate media) for the entire community will 
be improved,  alongside the creation of one-stop-shop 
units to facilitate processes.
Work to ensure the compliance of the premises 
and adapt them (disability standards, signage) will 
continue moving forward across all of the University’s 
campuses.
To learn more about the ÉgalitéS equality mission and 
the actions taken or under discussion, please visit this 
page (which presents all of the actions identified by the 
working group).
ALUMNI  
Université Paris Cité wants to be a university that is 
open to society and connected to its environment. 
An essential instrument supporting this vision is the alumni policy: first of all, the University’s 
graduates are our best ambassadors in the various 
professional sectors, and they are also effectively 
positioned to help us better respond to social 
demands.
In addition, they are an outstanding source of 
support for our current students,  with a focus on 
solidarity between different generations of Université 
Paris Cité students and graduates, providing advice and 
guidance and facilitating professional integration.
The University can also support its alumni by 
offering them an ongoing connection with the 
research that is underway, as well as with the 
training  that they can help provide or benefit from. In 
a contemporary context in which the rapid evolution 
of knowledge makes lifelong learning a vital issue, 
Université Paris Cité can work with its alumni to invent 
new ways of articulating the areas of knowledge that it 
develops for society.
This medium-term vision will be gradually 
developed by setting up a network of Université Paris 
Cité graduates, complementing the existing networks 
based on different disciplines or courses.

32  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Faced with major climate and environmental 
challenges, Université Paris Cité is committed 
to fully integrating the various dimensions of 
sustainable development into its operational strategy 
and its education and research missions, within 
a co-construction approach working jointly with 
all of its communities. 
Our coordination of the “Global Health” initiative from 
the Circle-U programme illustrates our commitment 
to the inseparable stakes involved with the climate 
and health. This commitment by Université Paris 
Cité to sustainable development is moving forward 
in synergy with other initiatives, such as the City 
of Paris’ Climate Academy initiative. 
While we have a longstanding commitment 
to promoting sustainable practices across our 
various activities, we will be working to take on board 
the complex issues involved with this (r)evolution 
more effectively.
The policy will therefore focus on three key areas:
Becoming an environmentally responsible operator 
by transitioning towards sustainable campuses, 
in terms of waste sorting, energy consumption in the buildings, efficient digital practices, green buildings, 
etc. This involves managing a long-term effort 
to decarbonise and improve the resilience  
of Université de Paris’ infrastructure and practices;
Looking into how to better structure the courses 
offered for the activities and professions in 
related fields  through support from outstanding 
research laboratories. More generally, we aim 
to respond to strong demand from students by 
further enhancing the range of training with dedicated 
modules on climate and environmental issues and by 
supporting and promoting student initiatives relating 
to sustainable development;
And focusing our research practices and themes  
and our partnership policy on projects that promote 
sustainable solutions. While respecting each 
researcher’s freedom, this involves encouraging 
an ambitious research policy in fields relating to the 
ecological, energy and social transition, while inviting 
all of the disciplinary fields to mobilise around major 
systemic issues relating to the climate, biodiversity, 
energy resources, pollution, etc.
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
The Jardin de l’Abbé Pierre located on the Grands Moulins campus in the 13th district
33  
UNIVERSITÉ PARIS CITÉ
POSITION WITHIN THE COMMUNITY 
Université Paris Cité is one of two major research 
universities in Central Paris. It therefore has 
a unique opportunity to contribute to society 
through the transfer of knowledge and training 
for citizens, promoting a strong level of civic 
engagement. 
In return, the city is an essential partner in terms of 
socioeconomic relations, access to data for research, 
access to external funding, etc. 
To build ambitious projects around shared goals, 
Université Paris Cité must further strengthen its 
links with the City of Paris and the Paris Region, 
while ramping up its channels for communication:   
this is based on identifying and maintaining direct 
contacts, both political and administrative with city halls 
in the various arrondissements, in order to keep them 
informed and engage them in relevant initiatives led 
by the faculties, departments and laboratories. 
We will systematically review all the possible 
interfaces between the University and its 
environment to identify those that we would like 
to further strengthen in particular:For training, the interfaces that enable students 
to contribute to their environment (internships, 
student volunteering) and that enable employers 
to express their needs;
For research, the interfaces that enable our 
researchers to listen to the needs of the various 
regional partners and develop civic and participatory 
science projects;
For distributing knowledge, the interfaces that enable 
us to further strengthen our role in terms of scientific 
mediation and the distribution of scientific culture 
among the general public.
Université Paris Cité aims to contribute to its 
region’s growing influence and reputation by 
capitalising on links with other academic, scientific, 
technological and cultural institutions. We are 
therefore putting in place an action plan to expand 
and reinforce our contacts with these institutions 
located in Paris and the Paris Region, but we will also 
be drawing on our international partners - for example, 
within Circle U, where one of the actions is focused 
specifically on entrepreneurship, including women, 
interacting with the city and our health stakeholders.
Community garden project called «Retour de la Terre», created by artist, landscape architect Emmanuelle Bouffé  
on the IUT campus Paris Rives de Seine
34  Some key markers
Université Paris Cité is in its first years of existence 
and this first plan is deliberately brief: 2021 to 2024 
will offer opportunities for us to clearly set out 
our goals and link them to appropriate tracking 
indicators for our next strategic plan.
For this first strategic plan, Université Paris Cité  
has identified some key markers that must help  
monitor its development.STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
A student satisfaction survey will be carried out in 2021, 
and then on a regular basis
A survey making it possible to monitor staff satisfaction 
one year after their recruitment will also be set up
The Reuters ranking for the most innovative universities 
will make it possible to measure progress with knowledge 
transfer
The implementation of Circle U will illustrate our ability 
to develop our internationalisation and establish 
ourselves within the transformation processes underway 
at European level
Lastly, the amount of self-generated resources 
corresponding to competitive calls for projects will 
provide us with insights into the visibility of our research 
compared with national and European levels

36  
2021-2024 | STRATEGIC PLANu-paris.fr
 Université Paris Cité              @univ_paris              @univparis             @univ_paris              Université Paris Cité
