Strategic Objectives of Education at Ghent University  
 
Ghent University’s Vision Statement  
Ghent University aims to be a world player building  innovative research and education, based on 
international excellence. It commits itself to spearheading scientific and social debates and training 
people who dare to think today about the challenges of tomorrow.  
 
Ghent University’s Mission Statement  
Ghen t University holds a unique position in Flemish academia. This is reflected in its mission 
statement, which serves as a touchstone for its day -to-day policy and is the basis for its strategic 
policy plans and any change processes at all levels.  
Ghent Unive rsity ...  
 distinguishes itself as a socially committed and pluralist university, which is open to all 
students regardless of their ideological, political, cultural and social background  
 positions itself in a broad international perspective, all the while s tressing its own 
individuality in terms of language and culture  
 aims to encourage its students to adopt a critical approach within a creative, development -
oriented educational and research environment  
 offers a broad spectrum of high -quality research -based study programmes that are 
constantly being adapted to the most recent scholarly and scientific developments  
 aims to develop in a selective manner the advanced degree programmes, as well as 
postgraduate and permanent education  
 aims to situate its education al and research activities within the broader social context and 
to remain in continual dialogue with all parties concerned  
 aims to promote and further develop fundamental independent research in all faculties and 
to be a world player in the selected field s of endeavour  
 aims to be an enterprising university with a focus on the social and economic applications of 
its research findings  
 attaches particular importance to the social facilities made available for students  
 creates a stimulating environment for its  staff and provides them with the fullest scope of 
opportunities to develop their potential  
 attaches particular importance to the participation of students, staff and community 
representatives in the formulation of policy  
 desires strong interaction with its alumni  
 opts for a decentralized, dynamic organization model.  
 
Strategic Objectives for Education  
The strategic objectives for education listed below illustrate how Ghent University sees high -quality 
education. These objectives all reflect one global philosophy of education, namely 
multiperspectivism, which is the embodiment of Ghent University’s motto “Dare to Think”  and is also 
closely related to its mission statement. Multiperspectivism is a way of encouraging people to think 
outside of the box. We are all stuck in a box, one way or another, and this allows us to see certain 
things but also blocks our view from other things. We can overcome this by accepting the box for 
what it is, seeing it for what it really is, and ultimately opening new perspecti ves. In other words, it is 
versatility, not one -sidedness, that we should strive for.  
Strategic objective for education n° 1: Education should focus on daring to think and promoting 
multiperspectivism  
Description:  Ghent University encourages critical thin king and the courage to think for yourself. It 
aims to achieve this by incorporating openness, changing perspectives, pluralism, and tolerance 
towards deviating viewpoints, approaches, paradigms and theories into its educational processes. In 
this sense, m ultiperspectivism does not only refer to the fact that dissonance is used as a means to 
encourage learning , but it takes on a broader meaning, which is reflected in the other educational 
objectives.    
 
Strategic objective for education n° 2: Education is b ased on and invariably connected with research  
Description:  Education should be closely related to the dynamics of the scientific research itself. 
Fundamental scientific discoveries are often associated with paradigm shifts (i.e. changes in the way 
known information is reorganized into new theories).  In this proce ss, the accumulation of dissonant 
information is crucial, as this information does not fit into any of the existing paradigms. If education 
is to boost students’ creativity, it should tie in with these dynamics of scientific change: it should 
confront stud ents with anomalies and make them aware of the transitory nature of all knowledge, to 
name but a few things. If anything, students should be encouraged to take up new and unexpected 
perspective s. Other essential aspects are multi -, inter - and transdiscipli narity: combining the 
perspectives of different disciplines to formulate and solve problems and form theories.  
 
Strategic objective for education n° 3: Education should contribute to the talent development of 
students and staff  
Description:  Talent develop ment  is the key to a versatile and creative university, one which nurtures 
a multitude of perspectives and considers this to be a strength. The university therefore aims to 
contribute to the talent development within its community.  
Specifically, it strives  for the following:  
- Cultural, social and gender diversity is an added value that should be stimulated.  
- The self -development of staff should be promoted and actively supported  
- For students, two principles are applied:  
- a principle of equal opportunities: e veryone should have equal opportunities to develop 
their talents, including the greater talents   
- a principle of second chances: talent should not go to waste because someone fails the 
first time; it is only fair that people are given a second chance, at w hich point the 
selection process  can really start  
 
Strategic objective for education n° 4: Education is fostered by the participation of stakeholders  
Description:  The university is not an isolated place, but rather a hub connect ing multiple 
perspectives. It is a place where the interests of the students and their parents, the university staff, 
the government and the work field (both public and private) all meet . To guarantee an education of 
the highest standards, all these stakehold ers should leave their mark, in an ethically responsible way, 
on both content and form . Ghent University therefore takes all these perspectives into account in the 
design of its education and the evaluation of its study programmes, by ensuring and organizi ng the 
participation of students and people from the field in its policy -making, while still safeguarding the 
independence of academia. At Ghent University, s tudent participation and student rights are core  
values.  
 
Strategic objective for education n° 5: Internationalization is key  
Description:  Ghent University aims to promote cross -border cooperation, in terms of both education 
and research. Exchanging students and lecturers, cooperating on projects and forming sus tainable 
alliances are all means to foster academic quality. Ghent University endeavours to offer its students 
and staff maximum opportunities to acquire international and intercultural competences. 
International contacts, a natural consequence of recruiti ng foreign research staff, allow staff to 
question and adjust their own viewpoints, as they are invited to look at things from a different 
perspective.  
 
Strategic objective for education n° 6: Ghent University meets internationally recognized standards 
for reliable quality assurance  
Description:  This objective is applicable regardless of the specific concept of quality at Ghent 
University (i.e. the previous objectives). It allows us to verify whether the content -related objectives 
are sufficiently met by th e way the educational processes are integrated into the study programmes, 
faculties and governing bodies at Ghent University. In particular, study programmes should meet the 
following requirements:  
- They should h ave a clear vision, in line with the philosop hy of education and general 
educat ion concept at Ghent University  
- The intended competences of the programme should meet national and international 
benchmarks in terms of  content, level and orientation  
- The structure of the programme should be logical  
- The in tended competences, teaching methods and evaluation methods should all be 
interconnected  
- The test principles and policy should be tailored to the intended  learning results and 
processes  
- There should be a permanent cultur e of quality assurance  
- All informati on about the programme and the quality of the programme should b e 
shared with all stakeholders  
  
  
Table:  
 
1. Dare to think & Multiperspectivism  
Critical thinking, changing perspectives, openness, pluralism and tolerance towards deviating 
viewpoints are at the heart of education  
2. Education based on excellent research  
The education is based on excellent research and the most reliable scientific knowledge in the 
field.  
3. Talent development of students and lecturers  
The education gives students and lecturers the opportunity to develop their talents and offers 
them the information, guidance and challenges needed to achieve this.  
4. Internationalization  
The education gives students the best opportunities to acquire international/intercultural 
competences. To this end, Ghent University pays special attention to internationalization 
projects and strives for optimal student and staff mobility, as well as 
Internationalization@Home and virtual mobility.  
5. Involvement of stakeholders  
Students, lecturers, alumni, and people from the field are actively involved in education, and 
take part in policy and evaluation.  
6. Educational quality  
The programme has a clear vision and strives for competences which are nationally and 
internationally verified and considered relevant, and which meet  all requirements in terms of 
content, level and orientation. The structure of the programme is logical an d there is a clear link 
between the learning results, the programme and the teaching methods. The test principles and 
policy applied in the programme are tailored to the learning results and the learning process. 
The programme has a culture of permanent qu ality assurance and improvement. The 
programme shares information and communicates with all the parties involved.  
 
