Te Herenga Waka
Victoria University of Wellington
Strategic Plan
2020–2024

The Strategic Plan was confirmed by Council at its meeting on Monday 14 October 2019 and signed on behalf of Council:
Neil Paviour-Smith
Chancellor
1 Defined for these purposes as Australasia, Asia, Oceania, and the Pacific Rim, including the Americas, Antarctica, and the Southern Ocean.Vice-Chancellor’s introduction
The 2020 Strategic Plan builds on the 
accomplishments of the previous Strategic Plan 
that revitalised the ‘civic university’ tradition on 
which our university was founded. This tradition was 
reinvigorated with the global outlook of a modern 
capital city and the Strategic Plan redefined the 
local–civic university as the global–civic university. 
In so doing, we highlighted our commitment to civil 
society and global citizenship, and affirmed our 
intent to prepare critically and culturally informed, 
globally confident, civic-minded graduates. 
This international perspective underpins and 
reinforces our commitment to our location—
Wellington, Aotearoa New Zealand, and the wider 
Asia–Pacific region.1 This is our tūrangawaewae—
the place in which we stand—a place that defines 
our institutional identity and our future. We 
bridge the local and the global by ensuring that 
communities throughout this region benefit from 
our research and teaching excellence.The 2020 Strategic Plan adapts to the challenging 
strategic context of the University, yet it is 
unreservedly ambitious. Our ambition is in keeping 
with the world-class quality of our institution 
and our determination to make a prominent 
contribution to addressing the major challenges 
that face our nation and our world. 
The Plan commits us to uphold a set of institutional 
values and enunciates our vision and our purpose 
in society. It draws on our bicultural heritage and 
a constitutional framework enriched by Te Tiriti 
o Waitangi. The Plan comprises strategies that 
span the quality of our research, teaching, and 
student experience. It focuses on inclusivity, on 
our engagement with communities, on our place in 
the Asia–Pacific, and it promotes actions that will 
transform the way we work. 
The development of this Plan has required us to 
pause to consider what defines our university and its future. We are a global–civic university with 
our marae at our heart. This essence is further 
defined by our heritage and our tūrangawaewae, 
and manifests in our current position as Aotearoa  
New Zealand’s globally ranked capital city university. 
Our vision is to be a world-leading capital city 
university and one of the great global–civic 
universities. It is time to confidently set about 
making this happen.
 
 
Professor Grant Guilford 
Vice-Chancellor
1

The University operates in a rapidly globalising tertiary sector characterised by the emergence of elite university brands capable of operating across borders through 
various forms of transnational education. To thrive in this sector, a university must have an identity that is respected, clearly differentiated from other universities, 
and distinguished by attributes that matter to its staff, students, and communities. 
Universities in New Zealand provide uniformly high-quality education of which the nation can be justifiably proud. However, it is becoming increasingly challenging 
to sustain this quality. Public funding has been falling behind rising costs for decades. The chronic impacts of these budgetary policies are currently compounded by 
declining numbers of domestic school leavers. 
Universities have responded to these financial challenges in part by striving to attain scale through internationalisation. Constraints and challenges to internationalisation 
are emerging. The international market is increasingly more competitive. Most prominently, academic standards must be protected while the learning needs of 
international students and the talent requirements of their countries must also be considered. Maintaining the social licence to teach international students and 
avoiding unacceptable levels of financial risk are developing concerns. 
The time-honoured operating models of universities are also changing. There is a trend toward disaggregation of research-led teaching and increasing mission-led 
multidisciplinary research. There is also a greater reliance on online or blended education and lifelong learning. 
Demand is increasing for culturally responsive pedagogies of deeper resonance with Māori, Pasifika, migrant, and international students. 
Inspiring leadership to manage the externalities of universities and to address the existential threats of poor planetary stewardship is essential.
Strategic context
3

StrategiesHeritage and position
Founded in 1897 as a civic university in support of Wellington and embedded in a constitutional fabric framed by Te Tiriti o Waitangi. Now positioned as
Aotearoa New Zealand’s globally ranked capital city university.   Vision
To be a world-leading capital city university and one of the great global–civic universities.
Values
Our core ethical values are respect, responsibility, fairness, integrity, and empathy. With, and as, tangata whenua, we value Te Tiriti o Waitangi, rangatiratanga,
manaakitanga, kaitiakitanga, whai mātauranga, whanaungatanga, and akoranga. 
Purpose
Our shared purpose is research, teaching, and engagement that transforms lives.
Iho and distinctiveness
We are a global–civic university with our marae at our heart. This iho (essence) is further defined by our heritage and by our tūrangawaewae—in particular Wellington, Aotearoa,
and the Asia–Pacific. Our unique attributes stem from our values and our capital city location.         
Ambitious research 
for transformative 
impact  Education preparing 
students for an 
extraordinary life  Engagement that 
deepens relevance, 
impact, and reputationEquitable outcomes 
for all  Belonging to the 
Asia–Pacific regionTransforming the 
way we workTe Herenga Waka—Victoria University of Wellington
5

Te Herenga Waka—Victoria University of Wellington will be a world-leading capital city university and one of the great global–civic universities. 
This vision is expressed in brief as ‘Capital thinking. Globally minded. Mai i te iho ki te pae’. 
As a world-leading capital city university, we play a prominent role in the life of Wellington and beyond. We lead thinking on the major issues that affect the 
environmental, societal, cultural, and economic wellbeing of Aotearoa New Zealand, the Asia–Pacific, and the wider world.
As a global–civic university, we ensure our research and teaching are both locally relevant and internationally significant. We expect to rank within the top 
1 percent of the world’s universities.
Central to this vision is our commitment to being a values-based university, to sustainability, and to honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi, te Reo Māori, mātauranga 
Māori, and our relationships with iwi and iwi-related organisations. As such, we are a global–civic university with our marae at our heart, defined by our heritage 
and our tūrangawaewae, and with unique attributes that stem from our values and our capital city location. 
We pursue ambitious research designed to challenge the status quo. We leverage our research strengths and the distinctive advantages and opportunities that 
Wellington provides to deliver transformative outcomes. 
Our university is a place where learning flourishes and where people are helped to transform society. In partnership with Wellington, we provide an unrivalled 
student experience. 
We build trusted and enduring partnerships with alumni, benefactors, and communities. We have a strong sense of belonging in the Asia–Pacific and exert 
substantial intellectual influence in the region.
We are critically engaged with diverse perspectives and world views. Our university community is inclusive and reflects the diversity of Aotearoa New Zealand’s 
population. We are proud to have staff and students with a broad range of experience, knowledge, cultures, and backgrounds, from here and overseas.
We rise to the challenge posed by the rapid transformation in the global tertiary education sector through willing and enthusiastic responsiveness in our policies, 
practices, and operational models to the changing needs of our staff, students, and communities. In so doing, we retain our distinctiveness as a values-based, 
research-intensive university that employs processes and systems that empower our staff and students.
Our university has a financially and environmentally sustainable operating model to fund world-class teaching and research and to protect our institutional 
autonomy for the long term.
Vision statement 
7

Heritage and position
Aotearoa New Zealand is a multicultural, democratic, egalitarian society, with deep roots in the Pacific and Europe, directed towards an Asia–Pacific future. The 
University was founded in 1897 and draws deeply on a constitutional framework enriched by Te Tiriti o Waitangi.
A prominent motive for the establishment of the University was the pressing need for Wellington to be supported by a public university. Our character as a ‘capital 
city university’ was first suggested in 1886 by our founder, Robert Stout: “So far as Wellington is concerned, it is the seat of Parliament and the seat of the Court of 
Appeal. This city might be prominent for its special attention to jurisprudence, to law, to political science, to history.”2
This heritage is reflected in the contemporary position of the University as Aotearoa New Zealand’s globally ranked, capital city university. Consistent with the civic-
university tradition, we engage closely with New Zealand’s capital city and the wider Wellington region. In so doing, we engage critically with government, business, 
communities, and others in an independent and non-partisan manner. Our presence in the capital affords staff and students ready access to political, public sector, 
legal, diplomatic, cultural, creative, scientific, corporate, community, media, and non-governmental organisations, as well as to the nation’s archived and living 
heritage—its cultural taonga. 
This civic engagement provides the opportunity to enrich national culture and to lead thinking on major issues affecting environmental, societal, cultural, and 
economic wellbeing. It positions the University to facilitate innovation, entrepreneurship, and sustainable economic growth. And, in keeping with the international 
connections of Wellington and the University, it offers a valuable opportunity to create bridges between communities and to influence thinking in the wider  
Asia–Pacific region and global community.
2 Barrowman, R. Victoria University of Wellington 1899–1999: A History. Victoria University Press, 1999.
9


Values and commitments
Our core ethical values are respect, responsibility, fairness, integrity, and empathy. 
These core ethical values are demonstrated in our commitment to sustainability, wellbeing, inclusivity, equity, diversity, collegiality, and openness. 
With, and as, tangata whenua, we value Te Tiriti o Waitangi, rangatiratanga, manaakitanga, kaitiakitanga, whai mātauranga, whanaungatanga, and akoranga.
As an academic community, we prize excellence, intellectual rigour, critical inquiry, academic freedom, and institutional autonomy. 
Leadership, curiosity, creativity, and entrepreneurship, whether social, cultural, scientific, or commercial, are at the heart of our capacity to imagine creative concepts, 
to express new possibilities, and to find new solutions to complex issues.
Purpose
Our shared purpose is research, teaching, and engagement that transforms lives. 
This is our collective mission in the service of our communities. It expresses why all of us, no matter what our role in the University, come to work each day.
 
11


Iho and distinctiveness
Te Herenga Waka—Victoria University of Wellington is a global–civic university with our marae at our heart. This iho draws off our heritage and is further defined by 
our tūrangawaewae—in particular Wellington, Aotearoa, and the Asia–Pacific—all of which are expressed in our position as Aotearoa New Zealand’s globally ranked 
capital city university. 
We are further differentiated by aspects of the way we work, including our commitment to being a values-based, research-intensive university that works in partnership 
with its students. We are an engaged institution aspiring to learn, adapt, and develop with agility, using processes that empower our people.
And finally, our distinctiveness is defined by a number of attributes that matter to our staff, students, and communities. These attributes include governing for 
the future, living and making the Wellington vibe, being Asia–Pacific globally minded, thriving through creativity, honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi, and committing to 
sustainability and wellbeing. 
Our distinctive qualities are summarised in Figure 1 and the associated key. These points of difference are leveraged by the strategies outlined later in the  
Strategic Plan.
13

Global–civic
university with
our marae at
our heart
Processes 
that empower 
our people
Students 
as partners
Living and making 
the Wellington vibe
Being 
Asia–Paciﬁc 
globally 
mindedGoverning
for the 
futureCommitting to 
sustainability and 
wellbeing 
Honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi
Thriving through creativity
Research-
enriched 
learningLived
values
Institutional 
agility
Figure 1:   Our capital city university difference
Capital thinking. Globally minded
Mai i te iho ki te Pae
14
Our iho
Our essence is as a global–civic university with our marae at our heart (see inner core of the figure). This iho is further defined by our heritage and by our tūrangawaewae. At our university, the traditions of British  
‘red-brick’ civic universities mingle with mātauranga Māori and tikanga Māori. The centrality of our marae links us to the ancestors of our land and ties us all to the iwi of Aotearoa and to the wider Pacific. The name 
of our marae—Te Herenga Waka—is also now the Māori name of the University. It means the mooring place of canoes. Symbolically, the marae and wider university are spaces where everyone, no matter where they 
are from, can ‘hitch their canoe’ and belong.   
Distinctiveness in the way we work
Part of the University’s distinctiveness derives from the way we work (see middle layer of the figure). As a values-based university, institutional decisions and workplace behaviours are guided by the University’s values. 
Three distinctive examples of this values-based approach are our commitment to sustainability, being a restorative university, and a health-promoting university. 
Research-led teaching is the defining feature of all universities, and we are New Zealand’s most research-intensive university.3 Our students are more likely than in any other university in the country to be taught by a leading 
research-active academic. Research enriches our teaching with cutting-edge knowledge and methods. Research-led teaching injects the pursuit of knowledge with the enthusiasm of our society’s modern-day explorers. 
Our students are partners in their learning. They are closely involved in leadership at all levels of the institution—from decisions by the University Council affecting the entire institution to decisions by programmes 
affecting individual academic courses. Students and staff also partner to achieve societal change. This is a particular feature of student life in the capital city—the ability to make a difference through activism.
We are an engaged institution aspiring to learn, adapt, and develop with more agility. We recognise that the ability to sense, seize, and transform our futures requires empowering processes and systems that are efficient 
and effective. The wellbeing of our staff and students is paramount.
Distinctive attributes
The University’s distinctiveness is further defined by a number of particular attributes that matter to our 
staff, students, and communities (see outer ring of the figure). 
Governing for the future
We operate in the dynamic interface of crown, town, and gown; a place where hīkoi end, law and public 
policy are made, and activism flourishes. Locally, nationally, and internationally, we work to develop the 
policies and processes we need for future wellbeing. We have strong relationships with governments, 
business, iwi, and communities, while also valuing our role as ‘critic and conscience’ of society.     
Living and making the Wellington vibe
Wellington city is our campus. Wellington is a vibrant, edgy, culturally diverse, and highly connected city 
packed with leaders, achievers, entrepreneurs, creators, thinkers, dreamers, doers, and lovers of life. It is 
often wild, sometimes calm, but always alive with an energy and enthusiasm that makes this city the place 
of the possible.  
Being Asia–Pacific globally minded
We are strategically positioned in the dynamic Asia–Pacific region. This region sustains the University and 
it increasingly defines our future. As befits a capital in this region, an Asia–Pacific perspective frames the 
global mindedness of our city and university. We undertake research relevant to the region and educate 
civic-minded, globally confident graduates who will contribute to the Asia–Pacific region and beyond.Thriving through creativity
Creativity defines our city and our university. We foster the capacity of individuals and communities to imagine 
and to express new possibilities through creative activity. This is the genius behind great art, great music, great 
writing, and great design. It is the curiosity and insight behind major discoveries, transformative inventions, 
and new solutions to complex problems. It is the entrepreneurship that establishes new businesses. It is 
inspiration, it is innovation, and it is leadership. That is what this and other great universities do. 
Honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi 
Our respect for Te Tiriti o Waitangi and mātauranga Māori motivates us to influence and inform societal 
change for the betterment of Aotearoa New Zealand. We embed te reo, tikanga, and Māori knowledge in 
our university’s activities, including research, learning, and teaching. Our taihonoa partnerships with iwi 
and other Māori organisations allow us to learn together. We have the experience and confidence to lead on 
matters of importance to indigenous populations worldwide.
Commitment to sustainability and wellbeing
We live around a beautiful harbour, in the world’s most liveable and environmentally pure major city.4 
We treasure the unique natural heritage in which we are immersed. We are committed to the Sustainable 
Development Goals, to leading sustainability initiatives for local communities, and to improved planetary 
stewardship in order to secure the wellbeing of future generations.  
Key to Figure 1
3 www.wgtn.ac.nz/research/strengths/performance-and-rankings
4 www.wellingtonnz.com/about-wellingtonnz/media/newsroom/wellington-the-most-liveable-city-in-the-world-full-of-nooks-and-grannies/
15
Ferrier Research Institute

Robinson Research Institute

Pipitea campus

Kelburn campus

Computational Media
Innovation Centre
Miramar Creative Centre

Te Aro campus
School of Nursing, Midwifery, 
and Health Practice
(Wellington Regional Hospital, Newtown)

IHOTo be a world-leading 
capital city university and 
one of the great 
global–civic universitiesVISIONTo undertake research, teaching, and engagement that transforms livesPURPOSE
Respect                  Responsibility                  Fairness                  Integrity                  EmpathyCORE VALUESHERITAGE
AND POSITION
STRATEGIC
CONTEXTAmbitious research 
for transformative 
impact Engagement that 
deepens relevance, 
impact, and reputation
Education preparing 
students for an 
extraordinary life
Transforming 
the way we 
workBelonging to the 
Asia–Paciﬁc 
region
Equitable 
outcomes 
for all
Figure 2: Our strategic plan
Our six inter-related strategies will support the University to achieve its vision of being a world-leading capital city university and one of the great global–civic 
universities. They draw off our heritage, position, iho, and strategic context. They assist us to make the right choices in a resource-constrained world while remaining 
true to our values and aligned with our purpose (see Figure 2). The distinctive qualities of the University are leveraged in each of the strategies.Strategies

IHOTo be a world-leading 
capital city university and 
one of the great 
global–civic universitiesVISIONTo undertake research, teaching, and engagement that transforms livesPURPOSE
Respect                  Responsibility                  Fairness                  Integrity                  EmpathyCORE VALUESHERITAGE
AND POSITION
STRATEGIC
CONTEXTAmbitious research 
for transformative 
impact Engagement that 
deepens relevance, 
impact, and reputation
Education preparing 
students for an 
extraordinary life
Transforming 
the way we 
workBelonging to the 
Asia–Paciﬁc 
region
Equitable 
outcomes 
for all
Figure 2: Our strategic plan
19

The six strategies
Ambitious research for transformative impact  
Whai mātauranga—we nurture intellectual curiosity that pushes the boundaries of new knowledge and enhances the world around us.
The University pursues ambitious research designed to challenge the status quo. We leverage our research strengths, and the distinctive advantages and opportunities 
that Wellington provides, to enrich the learning of our students and to deliver transformative outcomes for our city, our nation, and the world. Our research vigour, 
distinctiveness, and quality are recognised internationally.
Our distinctive approach builds on our location in Aotearoa New Zealand’s political and cultural capital, on our proximity to internationally respected centres of 
creativity, and on the significant value that we gain from bringing mātauranga Māori to bear on both basic and applied research activity across the disciplines. Our 
research is perfectly positioned to share Aotearoa’s distinctiveness within the Asia–Pacific region and beyond.
We support our people to ask bold questions, pursue innovative solutions, and to imagine different ways of understanding the human condition. We recognise that 
research without risk seldom results in the kind of transformational outcomes needed to meet the challenges of today and the opportunities of tomorrow. We attract 
global scholars, from postgraduate researchers and early career academics to senior research leaders, to develop the diversity and scale required to deliver 
high-impact research across the breadth of scholarship at the University.
We recognise that major challenges require deep collaboration across traditional academic disciplines and with partners outside academia. Our strategic focus, 
therefore, supports and leverages existing and emerging areas of excellence from across the University to form a suite of multidisciplinary research programmes at 
a scale and intensity to deliver fundamental and transformative impact. We also strengthen existing international collaborations and develop selected deep, global 
partnerships to create dynamic and diverse environments that sustain transformative research initiatives over the long term.
By 2025, our ongoing commitment to ambitious research will have:
• prepared the University to once again lead the national research quality rankings with the highest proportion of academics conducting high-quality research 
• improved external research income to $ 100 million per annum, with 60 percent derived from public and private sources outside the New Zealand Government  
  contestable funding schemes 
• increased co-authorship or co-creation of research outputs with colleagues external to the University to 70 percent of research outputs
• resulted in 60 percent of our Scopus-indexed publications being in the top 25 percent of journals5  
• lifted new invention disclosures to 75 per annum
• doubled the number of research postgraduate students.
5 Journal percentiles according to Source Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP).
21

Education preparing students for an extraordinary life    
Akoranga—we value the knowledge that both students and staff bring to the university experience and recognise that greater understanding grows 
out of shared learning.
The University is a place where learning flourishes and helps people transform society. We grow the capability, skills, and confidence of undergraduate, 
postgraduate, and lifelong learning students. We support them to be creative, informed, and innovative, and to pursue their passion and excel in their chosen 
area of study. 
In partnership with Wellington, we provide an unrivalled student experience. Our students feel a sense of belonging to a vibrant and inclusive university and civic 
community. Our connection to the political and creative heart of the nation gives our students unique insights into the forces that shape our country and the 
world. We partner with students to support their understanding of civic responsibilities, and to enthuse them to contribute positively to society. Our distinctive 
approach builds on our commitment to a sustainable future for Aotearoa New Zealand and the importance we place on protecting our cultural identities.
We provide distinctive opportunities for our students to immerse themselves in intercultural and international experiences. We integrate academic learning with 
practical experiences relevant to their chosen career path and with civic experiences that enrich society as a whole. Our teaching programmes are research 
enriched, interdisciplinary, and created in partnership with our students and communities.  We embrace and support undergraduate and postgraduate study 
and other forms of lifelong learning, reaching out to our communities and engaging them in ongoing education. 
Our programmes are designed to ensure our graduates are globally minded, civically engaged citizens, with an understanding of international perspectives, and 
an ability to engage constructively with different communities. 
By 2025, the quality of the learning and student experience will have resulted in:
• retention rates from first to second year of 85 percent
• 95 percent of teachers being assessed as good or very good by their students
• 95 percent of students rating their overall satisfaction with services and facilities as good or very good
• 97 percent of graduates being in employment, further study, or not seeking work within one year of graduation 
• sustained growth in student numbers, averaging in excess of 1.5 percent per annum over the Strategic Plan period and with the longer-term goal of reaching  
 a minimum of 30,000 equivalent full-time students
• 26 percent of total students will be postgraduates, with 8 percent research-postgraduate students and 18 percent taught-postgraduate students. 
23

Engagement that deepens relevance, impact, and reputation  
Whanaungatanga—we grow meaningful and long-lasting relationships that benefit our university communities and beyond.
The University builds trusted and enduring partnerships with alumni, benefactors, and communities both in Wellington and overseas in keeping with our 
essence as a global–civic university with our marae at our heart. We have a carefully selected portfolio of partnerships that contribute to, and substantiate, our 
distinctiveness.
Effective engagement with government, public service, the diplomatic community, and non-governmental organisations is at the heart of our emphasis on 
governing for the future. Other communities of particular importance include those in the creative and cultural sector, in line with our emphasis on creative impact.
We continue to strengthen our taihonoa partnerships with iwi and iwi-related organisations in support of our commitment to Te Tiriti o Waitangi and closely 
engage with Pasifika groups to deliver more equitable outcomes. 
Businesses, professions, and other employers increasingly seek out our graduates. Work-integrated learning and enriching teaching with practitioner perspectives 
are central features of our curriculum. We support our communities through non-degree teaching for lifelong learning and through applied research and 
consultancy. Entrepreneurial engagement to develop new research questions and co-create meaningful innovative economic, social, cultural, and environmental 
ambitions is commonplace. 
We provide a sought-after destination for philanthropic investment by offering donors the opportunity to partner with a university that addresses pressing 
societal issues. 
Outstanding communication of the University’s values, distinctiveness, academic quality, and accomplishments strengthens our reputation and attractiveness 
to students, staff, and partners. It enables our research and scholarship to deliver transformative societal outcomes. 
Our public commentary on the issues of the day is increasingly prominent and sought after by national and international media outlets. We value our roles as the 
‘public intellectual’, ‘critic and conscience’, and ‘critical friend’, knowing when to use each of these roles to best effect.
By 2025, the effectiveness of our engagement will have:
• resulted in advocacy scores reaching 75 percent or above on surveys of domestic stakeholders, with detractors remaining at less than 2 percent 
• helped lift the University to rank within the top 1 percent of the world’s universities and within the top 100 universities in at least 20 subject areas of   
 particular relevance to our position as Aotearoa New Zealand’s globally ranked capital city university
• resulted in a successful fundraising campaign of $ 150 million by 2021. 
25

Equitable outcomes for all 
Kaitiakitanga—as guardians, we have an active duty to protect and nurture those entrusted to our care.
As a global–civic university, we are critically engaged with diverse perspectives and world views, actively providing opportunities to broaden people’s experiences. 
We are a community of students and staff who contribute to an inclusive, robust, environmentally sustainable, and equitable society.
We respect difference and treat all fairly and with respect.
We consciously build our university community in a manner reflecting the diversity of Aotearoa New Zealand’s population and we are proud to have staff and 
students with a diverse, broad range of experience, knowledge, and backgrounds from here and overseas. 
We take responsibility for ensuring equitable outcomes for all by creating inclusive learning environments and development opportunities for students and staff alike. 
Our inclusive approach to the design of our learning and research environments also means we tailor support to individual and cohort needs. We work hard to 
ensure that our students attain their educational aspirations and that they are well prepared to engage in civic futures of local and global influence.
By 2025:
• the composition of our university students, staff, and leaders will fully reflect the gender, ethnic, and cultural diversity of Aotearoa New Zealand 
• our identified equity, diversity, and inclusion student and staff groups will actively report better access, inclusion, and support6   
• student targets will include, but not be limited to, increasing the number of Māori students to 16.5 percent and Pasifika students to 8.1 percent of    
 domestic students
• staff targets will include, but not be limited to, increasing the number of women professors to at least 30 percent, doubling the number of Māori academics,  
 and tripling the number of Pasifika academics across all levels 
• all university leaders will have completed equity, diversity, and inclusion training.
6 www.wgtn.ac.nz/documents/policy/academic/equity-diversity-and-inclusion-framework.pdf
27

Belonging to the Asia–Pacific region
Rangatiratanga—we lead and influence around the globe in ways that maintain our excellent reputation and connections.
The vibrant Asia–Pacific region defines the University’s future. We have a strong sense of belonging to the Asia–Pacific and exert substantial intellectual influence 
in the region. 
As a global–civic university, we deepen partnerships in this region to bridge the local and the global, and to ensure that inter-cultural and global perspectives are 
integrated into all aspects of university life. 
Our research has particular relevance to the Asia–Pacific region and we educate civic-minded, globally confident graduates who are comfortable living and 
working in the region and who are supported by an active and engaged alumni network. 
We are ideally positioned to influence the policy and practice of governments in the region, particularly as these relate to governing for the future and to 
sustainability and wellbeing. We are well placed to contribute to the resolution of pressing global challenges as diverse as climate change and regional geopolitical 
tensions. This requires the University to strengthen its relationship with the public sector and the diplomatic communities in Wellington, while retaining the 
independence to engage critically with governments in a non-partisan fashion. 
By 2025:
• our deepest institutional relationships will be with universities from the Asia–Pacific region
• our domestic students will have significantly more educational exchange opportunities in the region
• students from the Asia–Pacific region will form the majority of an international student body that represents 25 percent of our total student population. 
29


Transforming the way we work
Manaakitanga—we are welcoming and generous and operate in ways that enhance the mana of our staff and students.
The University thrives during the current period of transformation in the global tertiary education sector through willing and enthusiastic responsiveness in our 
policies, practices, and operational models to the changing needs of our staff, students, and communities. We achieve this way of working by investing in our 
people, processes, partnerships, property, and scale.
Our people are the University. We foster a vibrant, highly creative, supportive, and inclusive environment that encourages the recruitment, development, and 
retention of a diverse community of academic and professional staff. We invest in our staff and leadership development to nurture empowered and innovative 
people and teams throughout the University.
We streamline and automate our supporting services, processes, models, and systems to attain best-in-class standards, and to deliver an outstanding staff and 
student experience. 
We create an intentional portfolio of strategic and tactical partnerships with our Treaty, international, research, and Wellington partners that enhances our 
distinctiveness, research, teaching, and student experience.
We tackle our property challenges innovatively to deliver on our ‘city as our campus’ vision. The University will have a far higher profile and presence in Wellington, 
with a focus on creative spaces and sustainable buildings.
We are undergoing a sustained period of growth and are well on the way to attaining the scale and impact typical of leading public universities, while maintaining 
our current high standards of quality. In so doing, we will ensure that the University has strong revenues and a financially and environmentally sustainable 
operating model to fund world-class teaching and research and protect our institutional autonomy for the long term. 
By 2025:
• the Staff Engagement Survey’s overall engagement score will reach or exceed 80 percent
• no notifiable injuries will be experienced by staff and no serious-harm events will be experienced by students.
By 2030: 
• we will be net carbon zero and will have reduced our gross carbon emissions by 20 percent.
31

Implementation
The Strategic Plan will be reviewed annually during the 2020–2024 period and will be comprehensively revised for each ensuing five-year period. The implementation 
of the Plan will be guided by a detailed multi-year ‘roadmap’. Progress towards strategic goals will be monitored by way of a comprehensive framework of key 
results areas. Through this iterative approach, a focus will be maintained on the Plan, ensuring that it continues to meet its purpose and remains appropriate to 
ongoing changes in the external environment.
This publication uses vegetable based inks and 
environmentally responsible paper produced 
from Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) 
certified, Mixed Source pulp from Responsible 
Sources.Paper produced using 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) 
and manufactured under the 
strict ISO14001 Environmental 
Management System.
Victoria University of Wellington 
PO Box 600, Wellington 6140, New Zealand 
Phone +64 4 472 1000 Web  wgtn.ac.nz Email vice-chancellor@vuw.ac.nz  
Facebook victoriauniversityofwellington Twitter @VicUniWgtn
