 • Strategies and Tactics •
Our People:  
KPI 7:
Improve Employee Experience as measured by a 
La Trobe Employee Experience Survey 1. La Trobe Workforce Strategy – smaller, high-performance, 
more agile and dynamic workforce
2. Retain status as Employer of Choice
3. Continue to embed La Trobe Culture as our most enduring and 
valued asset – Connected, Innovative, Accountable, CareImproving Efficiency  
and Productivity:
KPI 8: 
20 per cent improvement in staff productivity from 8.7 EFTSL 
per FTE in 2019 to 10.5 EFTSL per FTE by the end of 20221. Digital Transformation Strategy
2. Design and implement new support service model
3. Rationalise and simplify processes to maximise efficiencyLa Trobe University Strategic Plan 2020–2030
Students
Our student body is highly diverse.  
We will provide a supportive and 
engaging student experience that 
allows them to thrive, learn, question 
their own ways of thinking, and develop 
the confidence necessary to challenge 
and improve their world.
1. Implement StudyFlex to offer 
students more freedom in when 
and where they study.
2. Develop achievement-focused 
pathways to La Trobe that will 
give us the best accessibility and 
equity outcomes in Victoria.
3. Provide an enjoyable and user-
friendly digital experience for 
students. 
4. Ensure our attractiveness to 
students for study, both directly 
with us or via partnerships and 
pathways .
5. Increase support for student 
retention, progression and 
completion.
6. Improve the employability of 
our graduates.Teaching
We will provide a future-relevant, 
contemporary educational offer 
that provides greater flexibility for 
students and extends our online 
offering to meet market demand.  
We will produce some of the most 
employable graduates in the country – 
people with the skills and capabilities 
necessary for long-term career 
success anywhere in the world.
1. Streamline the course and subject 
portfolio in the light of evidence of 
student demand.
2. Simplify course architecture. 
3. Increase the use of online and 
mixed modes of delivery and 
support (Online Only, StudyFlex 
and Regional Connect).
4. Expand the range of short courses 
(award and non-award) 
5. Co-design curriculum with industry 
and alumni with a focus on 
embedding employability.
6. Continue to decolonise the 
curriculum and embed Indigenous 
knowledge and perspectives across 
our courses.Research
We will undertake high-quality 
research emerging from our areas 
of strength and to bring together 
discovery, applied and translational 
research capability across the 
University to address important 
global problems on the biggest 
interdisciplinary issues of our time.  
We will expand the impact of our 
research and engage more effectively 
in partnerships with industry, 
government, community and not-for-
profit organisations.
1. Focus our internal research support 
on a limited number of problem-
based interdisciplinary themes. 
2. Increase the number of large 
collaborations that La Trobe leads.
3. Align our future academic 
workforce with our research 
goals, ensure that academics are 
accountable for their research time 
and are supported to improve their 
research performance.  Partner of Choice
We will be known as a  
pre-eminent university for innovation 
and industry collaboration, our ability 
to apply and translate our knowledge  
to useful outcomes, and our 
enthusiasm for partners to co-locate 
with us on our campuses. 
1. Progress the University City of the 
Future – inviting community and 
industry in for mutual shared value.
2. Support La Trobe researchers to 
partner with industry, government 
and communities in our Research 
and Innovation Precinct, regional 
campuses and internationally.
3. Explore the possibility of 
deepening our engagement with 
the not-for-profit sector through 
co-location, joint research and 
capacity-building programs.Regions
We are Victoria’s only true state-wide 
university and regional campuses 
continue to be central to La Trobe’s 
identity, mission and purpose.  We 
will provide regional communities 
with pathways and qualifications to 
meet student demand and workforce 
need. We are also deeply committed to 
our communities in Melbourne’s north. 
1. Maintain our network of campuses 
to support face-to-face delivery of 
programs and partnerships in rural 
health and education.
2. Develop high-quality online courses 
supported by on-campus facilities, 
student support, and employability 
pathways to local industry (Regional 
Connect).
3. Implement Regional Campus 
Learning and Collaboration Hubs.
4. Strengthen the range of pathways 
to university study with our TAFE 
partners.International
We aim to be an internationalised 
university in everything we do and 
will create authentic and mutually-
beneficial global partnerships that 
create opportunities for researchers 
and our students.
1. Ensure our attractiveness to 
students for study, both directly 
with us or via our partnerships and 
pathways.
2. Highlight the attractiveness of our 
student experience, course quality 
and sector-leading employability 
initiatives for international students.  
3. Build a small number of productive 
strategic research partnerships with 
universities related to our research 
themes and seek to maximise the 
benefit of all our partnerships.  We are a university known for making a positive difference in the lives of our students, partners and communities. We will become an even more valued and relevant 
university because of the way we respond to their needs at this time of great local and national challenge.
Our aim is to emerge as a more resilient, future-focused and necessarily more efficient institution that will thrive in a post-COVID world by being more sharply 
focused on the needs of our community, and by playing to our strengths in teaching and research. Mission
Strategy
 • Enablers •For more information see  https://www.latrobe.edu.au/about/at-a-glance/plans
KPI 1: 
Top 12 nationally for the proportion  of 
graduates in employment as measured 
by the Graduate Outcome SurveyKPI 2: 
Top 12 nationally in the Student 
Experience Survey for Teaching Quality 
and Overall ExperienceKPI 3: 
ERA 4 or 5 ratings in fields of research 
where La Trobe has more than 10 FTE 
and more than 5% of Australia’s research 
effort, defined by ERA FTEKPI 4: 
Increase Category 2-4 and Medical 
Research Future Fund research income 
revenue by 50 per cent from 2019 
baseline by 2025KPI 5: 
Increase the number of students 
studying at, or supported by, regional 
campuses, and increase the number of 
TAFE graduates who study with usKPI 6: 
The quality of outcomes for our staff and 
students from our strategic partnerships with 
global universities as measured by International 
Partnership Assessment Rating Index  
