STRATEGIC PLAN  
2020–2025Creating a future for all  
Vice Chancellor’s welcome 2
Vision and mission 4
The core commitments: measuring our success 6
A values-based university  8
Providing research solutions to humankind’s greatest challenges  10 
Learning and teaching: Graduates of the Future 12
Engaging for impact nationally and globally  14
Unleashing the potential of our people  17
Building for a physical and digital future 18
Cover image
Jody Rallah  250 Years (The Coolamon Project) 2019
Ceramic, sand, archival boxes, 4 m x 4 m
Our ancestors live on through our cultural objects. Embedded into the creation of these objects exists a connection to our song lines, mobs and countries.
250 Years  (also referred to as The Coolamon Project ) is a large-scale installation which employed a community-based practice to produce 250 ceramic 
coolamons (Indigenous cultural vessels). The installation speaks of a gathering; to the diversity of Indigenous Australian nations; a decolonising of  
archival principles and a commemoration of resilience and strength through 250 years of colonisation. These cultural vessels of abundance embody  
a yarning circle as an opening to future conversations.
Contributors : Jody Rallah (Biri Gabba, Yuggera), Dianne Hall (Gamilaray), Maddison Bygrave (Darug), Kyra Mancktelow (Qandamooka, South Sea Islands),  
Dylan Mooney (Meriam Mir, Yuwi, South Sea Islands), Ronda Sharpe (Wiradjuri), Justine Omeenyo (Umpila), Carmen Perez (Wuthathi),  
Samantha Vines (Gamilaroi), Haylee Pierce (Quandamooka), Bianca Beetson (KubiKubi), Carol McGregor (Wadawurrung),  
Kullilli Geraldine Rose Cora (Waka Waka), Samuel Ramsey (Mamu-dyribal), Sheralee Wenham (Waka Waka), Macarlya Walters (Gamilaroi).
Photographer : Andrew Willis
| 1 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
In this strategy, we outline how we will build on that proud 
history to create an exciting future for the University  
and the communities of which it is part.
Some key initiatives that will underpin the future of  
Griffith include:
 yCommitting to living our values in the way that we operate 
our university through major investments in sustainability; 
building on Indigenous student and staff strengths;  
and focusing on the success of an inclusive student and 
staff body. Our values will underpin the rest of our strategy.
 yA major capital program over the coming decade that  
will see around $1.0b spent on physical infrastructure, 
including a substantial new development in the Brisbane 
CBD, and $350m on digital infrastructure; a major  
industry-oriented research facility at the Gold Coast  
Health and Knowledge Precinct; new buildings for sciences 
and social sciences at Nathan and welcoming of key 
partners on our Logan campus.
 yThe expenditure of at least $25m over five years to establish 
six interdisciplinary Griffith Beacons—research groupings 
aimed at answering the critical questions of the future and 
translating research outcomes into real-world solutions.
 yThe creation of the Griffith Graduates of the Future 
program to provide an outstanding education alongside 
preparation for the workforce for our undergraduates.
 yUp to $20m invested into educational technologies including 
the Virtual Learning Environment and the development of 
micro-credentials so that current students develop and 
can demonstrate employability skills, and to create digitally 
badged short courses to upskill worker learners. yAn increase in expenditure of greater than 50% on 
professional development for our staff with a focus  
on early and mid-career researchers and developing 
academic and general staff leaders.
 yA visible, easy-to-open ‘front door’ to the University for 
partners, with additional expenditure for both research  
and teaching/learning partnerships to ensure that Griffith 
plays a strong role in creating work-ready graduates and 
forms relationships with industry that benefit the  
Australian economy.
Griffith continues to stand ready to educate students who  
are committed to learning, regardless of their background.  
We will help them face the future with confidence, 
competence and the knowledge and skills that will allow  
them to thrive in a rapidly changing world. We will continue  
to include them in our community when they graduate, 
entering into rich and mutually beneficial partnerships with  
our alumni. We recognise that the future will require new 
forms of education to help people acquire the skills that  
they need as the world of work undergoes rapid change.
We will undertake significant, socially relevant research  
with partners from across and beyond the University to  
try to ensure that the future is one that brings benefits to 
as many people as possible. This research will have positive 
outcomes—socially, economically and culturally—for the 
people of Queensland, Australia and the world. It will help us  
to be internationally recognised for the quality and impact  
of our work.
We will break down boundaries to undertake significant 
research that will help to create a better future. In the 1970s, the people of Queensland recognised the need 
for a new university—a university that would not just be  
a replica of existing institutions but one that would create 
new possibilities and opportunities. Griffith would be a 
university committed to interdisciplinarity including in  
the emerging area of environmental studies; to being part  
of the exciting new opportunities starting in Asia; to social 
justice; and to opening up the rich experience of university 
education to a wider group of people.
Each decade since, Griffith has pioneered new directions and 
shifted from being a relatively small, single-campus university 
to a large, multi-campus university providing comprehensive 
research and teaching across South East Queensland.
The next decade must be similarly transformative.  
Griffith graduates and researchers must be equipped  
with the tools and support to take on the challenges  
of the future with confidence, a depth and breadth of 
understanding and a strong commitment to Griffith’s values.Vice Chancellor’s welcome| 2 | 
Creating a future for all
We will work across disciplines, in partnerships and  
across countries to bring together the right teams  
to answer the big questions of today and tomorrow.
We will invest in the infrastructure that underpins our 
physical and digital campuses to build a strong and 
sustainable future for our university, placing it at the  
heart of key communities in South East Queensland.  
All of our investments in new buildings will include  
spaces that encourage and support active, mutually  
valuable partnerships.
We will hold fast to our values, believing that they  
remain important if the future that we help to create is  
to be one that is just and equitable. Since its inception, 
Griffith has created a wonderful history for itself.  
This strategy sets out an ambitious program for the  
next six years to secure our future as a university of 
influence, worthy of being ranked in the top echelons  
of world universities.
Professor Carolyn Evans  
Vice Chancellor and President| 3 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
 yWe have a long-standing commitment to  
environmental sustainability and guardianship  
of our unique campus ecosystems.
 yWe are committed to social justice and see the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as one 
powerful articulation of these values. The SDGs set out  
17 goals to ‘achieve a better and more sustainable future  
for all’ in areas such as poverty reduction, good health, 
quality education, and climate action.
Engagement
 yWe recognise the unique place of First Peoples in our  
history and culture and the importance of respecting 
Indigenous knowledge, culture and talent.
 yWe are ethical in our collaborations with a wide variety  
of partners, seeking mutual and sustainable value in  
our partnerships.
 yWe recognise our particular obligations to the communities 
in which our campuses are based and are committed  
to being good neighbours who enhance local life.
 yWe engage globally, paying particular attention to our 
enduring relationships with Asian and Pacific countries.
 yOur international relationships seek to enhance the capacity 
of partners in areas such as teaching and learning, research, 
and community partnerships.To transform lives and add to human knowledge and 
understanding in a way that creates a future that benefits 
all. We will pursue our vision through our core principles  
of excellence, ethics, and engagement.
Excellence
 yWe commit to excellence in our work, ambitious to ensure 
that our teaching and learning, research, and engagement  
is of the highest quality.
 yIn the pursuit of excellence, we reach across boundaries  
of all kinds within and beyond the University. In particular, 
we pride ourselves on our interdisciplinary work and our 
ability to engage with industry, government and the  
not-for-profit sector.
 yStudents will be provided with high-quality education and 
the capacity to develop and apply knowledge to exercise 
influence and make meaningful lifelong contributions  
to their communities.
 yWe recognise the central role of academic freedom  
and a robust culture of free speech to university life.
Ethical behaviour
 yWe celebrate being an inclusive and diverse community,  
and create pathways to education for a wide variety  
of people regardless of their background.Vision and mission
HISTORY AND VALUES
Griffith welcomed its first students in March 1975 
at a ceremony attended by the Prime Minister, 
the Honourable Gough Whitlam. Our innovative 
approach included establishing the schools of 
Modern Asian Studies and Australian Environmental 
Studies—the first of their kind in Australia.  
We also were leaders in bringing together academic 
disciplines to solve contemporary problems and 
providing access to university education to a wider 
group of people.
| 4 | 
Creating a future for all
| 5 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
Values
A values-led  
universityStudents
Graduates confident  
to face the futureInfrastructure
Building a physical  
and digital futurePeople
Unleashing the  
potential of our peopleEngagement 
Partnering for impact 
domestically and globallyResearch
Research solutions for 
tomorrow’s problemsThe core commitments of our strategy: measuring our success 
The strategy is structured around six inter-related core commitments. They all cascade from our values, include our core activities of high-quality teaching and research,  
and will be enabled by strategic partnering, a substantial renewal of our campuses and a significant investment in our people. By 2025, we will:
Be ranked in the top 200 
universities in the world; with 
10 disciplines in the top 100.
Establish Griffith Beacons  
for interdisciplinary research.
Double the number of 
Griffith-funded postdoctoral 
fellowships and create 
pathways for research  
students to employment.
Increase research income  
by at least $20m p.a.,  
and increase funding  
from both competitive  
grants and other sources.Create the Griffith  
Graduates of the Future 
program to support student 
success in learning and in 
transitioning to employment.
Undergo a digital 
transformation that improves 
the learning experience for 
all students and that provides 
our faculty with advanced 
digital teaching skills.
Create, often in partnership 
with industry, a set of 
stackable micro-credentials 
that support employees 
and entrepreneurs to thrive 
throughout their careers.
Increase international students 
to 25% of student numbers.Increase our Indigenous staff  
to 2% of staff with clear plans 
to reach population parity.
Be on our way to halving 
carbon emissions by 2030.
Be ranked in the top 200 
universities globally for 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Renew our commitment  
to supporting a diverse range 
of students into education.Develop a high-quality  
inner-city presence for 
business, law, creative arts 
and related disciplines and 
executive education.
Undertake a major sciences 
and social sciences building 
program at Nathan and  
close Mount Gravatt.
Successfully establish ADaPT 
and increase partnerships  
in the Gold Coast Health  
and Knowledge Precinct.
Create opportunities for 
partners to build their 
physical presence at Logan.Establish six strategic  
international partnerships, 
including four in the Asia–Pacific.
Create a hub of research  
and engagement excellence in 
Asia–Pacific trade and business.
Establish new academic 
roles with a focus on 
partnership building; see an 
uplift in strategic research 
partnerships and funding.
Create a ‘front door’ to the 
University for industry partners.Create a suite of professional 
development opportunities 
for ECRs / MCRs, emerging 
and established leaders.
Empower staff through 
reducing unnecessary 
administration.
Increase under-represented 
groups in our staff, including  
at leadership levels.| 6 | 
Creating a future for all
| 7 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
A values-based university
Strategic commitments: social justice
 yUtilise the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) as a framework for articulating and measuring  
our impact with respect to social justice.
 yDevelop a focused plan to implement key SDGs throughout 
the University.
 yConsider the ethical and social implications of our actions 
and ensure that relevant policies, especially around 
procurement, responsible investment, and travel,  
align with our values.
Key outcomes
By 2025, we will have:
 yReached a target of 2% of both professional and academic 
staff being from a First Peoples background. 
 yDeveloped and implemented a clear plan to halve carbon 
emissions by 2030.
 yBuilt on our current successes to ensure that staff and 
students from a wide variety of backgrounds are able  
to fulfil their potential at Griffith.
 yBeen ranked in the top 200 universities in the world  
for implementation of the SDGs.  yProvide a more coherent framework for teaching  
Indigenous content and cultural competency in our  
degrees and creating appropriate cultural training  
for students and staff.
Environmental sustainability
 yDevelop an action plan to align Griffith with the 
recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change by halving carbon emissions by 2030  
and reducing them to zero by 2050.
 yEstablish an expert group to develop options for energy 
that will allow us to comply with the targets of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
 yDevelop an integrated plan to protect our flora and fauna, 
recognising that we are the stewards of diverse ecosystems 
across our campuses.
Diversity and inclusion
 yReview our policies, practices, built and digital environment  
to ensure accessibility for students and staff with a disability.
 yEmbrace diversity, including in recruitment, promotion 
and professional development, and enable a culture that 
ensures that all staff and students, including those who 
are culturally and linguistically diverse, differently able, 
LGBTIQ+, Indigenous, and female, are provided with  
a safe and supportive environment.
 yReview and strengthen our policies on academic freedom 
and freedom of speech to ensure that they protect  
diverse viewpoints.Values have been at the heart of Griffith’s identity from its 
inception. Alumni and staff from the earliest years echo the 
sentiments of students and employees today: at Griffith,  
we strive to live our values in our teaching, research,  
and engagement.
Far from such values becoming outdated, they are now more 
important than ever. In addition to deep discipline knowledge 
and skills, the digital age will necessitate graduates who 
are more ethically sophisticated, more capable of human 
connection, and more creative. Such graduates will not only 
benefit their communities as employees and entrepreneurs 
but as conscientious and engaged citizens. 
As we face the future, Griffith remains committed to these 
values, which have been part of our fabric for decades.
Our values underpin all of the commitments in this strategy. 
Over the next six years, we will make a focused investment 
in: First Peoples, environmental sustainability, diversity and 
inclusion, and social justice. 
Key actions
By 2025, we will:
First Peoples
 yUndertake an ambitious recruitment strategy including 
recruitment of senior First Peoples leaders and develop  
a framework for recruitment of Indigenous academic  
and professional staff across the University.
 yReach 2% of our academic and professional staff being 
Indigenous, with a clear plan to reaching population  
parity after this.| 8 | 
Creating a future for all
FIRST PEOPLES’ INCLUSION
Griffith has led the way nationally in its support for 
and numbers of Indigenous students, celebrating 
diversity, practicing inclusiveness and encouraging 
participation with Australia’s first tertiary student 
support unit for Indigenous Australians and the  
First Council of Elders. Accomplished First Nations 
staff include Dr Kerry Bodle, who received the  
2019 Outstanding Indigenous Alumnus Award.
| 9 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
 
 However, we recognise that, in order to be leaders in research 
that has impact, we will need to engage beyond disciplinary 
boundaries and in close partnerships with those outside the 
University. We will design more ambitious and innovative 
programs of research, called Griffith Beacons, which will 
tackle the core problems of the future by drawing on a range 
of disciplines and partnerships. The Beacons will enable 
researchers to undertake the highest-quality research of 
global import and local relevance. We will also encourage 
smaller-scale, interdisciplinary projects (Griffith Spotlights) 
to encourage a strong environment of problem-oriented 
research across the University.
We will invest in the capabilities of our researchers at all 
stages of their careers to ensure that they fulfil their potential. 
In particular, we will invest in our researchers who are early in 
their careers, with support for research graduate students to 
be skilled for a wide variety of future employment prospects 
and through investing in our postdoctoral program. We will 
focus on ensuring that everyone hired for positions that 
include research is capable of, and supported in, producing 
research of national and international value.
We will continue to improve our performance in national 
competitive grants while we renew and reinvigorate our 
commitment to partnering in ways that bring additional 
insight, expertise, and resources to our research. We will 
support our researchers at all stages of their careers to be 
capable and confident in working with industry and other 
external partners in a mutually beneficial way, and increase  
our income from industry sources.The challenges of the 21st century are many and complex; 
the opportunities are exciting and filled with potential. 
Creating a future that is inclusive and in which people can 
thrive will require research teams that include those who are 
highly talented within their own discipline, creative and 
agile, capable of partnering, and able to work across 
disciplinary boundaries. 
As a comprehensive university, Griffith is well placed to bring 
together leading researchers from arts and humanities, social 
sciences, performing and creative arts, science, engineering, 
medicine and allied health in formidable combinations to take 
on the big questions of our time. 
Griffith has a long track record of providing high-quality, 
relevant research that aims to solve the major problems of the 
day or that helps to grasp new and exciting opportunities as 
they emerge. Such projects have already created enormous 
economic, social and cultural benefits for the people of 
Queensland and beyond. With expertise spanning everything 
from violence prevention to lowering the cost of health care 
to using quantum physics for cybersecurity to protecting our 
fragile coastlines, Griffith researchers are already tackling 
some of the big questions of our time.
Our disciplines are at the core of our research and we will 
continue to invest in areas of excellence and expertise.  
We also support the fundamental and theoretical research 
that is a critical part of the research ecosystem and improves 
our success in nationally competitive grants. It is critical that 
we continue to improve in these areas.Providing research solutions to humankind’s greatest challenges
RESEARCH EXCELLENCE—
PATHWAYS TO 
PREVENTION
Keeping children out of the criminal justice system, 
Griffith’s Pathways to Prevention program is 
considered a landmark initiative. Established by 
Professor Ross Homel AO, the project provided a 
suite of activities tailored to the needs of each child 
and family. The decade-long program was lauded 
nationally and is regarded as ‘the grandparent’  
of early intervention crime prevention approaches 
across Australia.
| 10 | 
Creating a future for all
 yBetter recognise the contribution of doctoral candidates 
as part of Griffith’s research fabric, including greater focus 
on providing Higher Degree by Research candidates with 
opportunities to develop professional skills and enhance 
career outcomes.
 yInvest strategically in both researchers and research 
infrastructure in areas of excellence. We will begin with  
a focus on building postdoctoral and early-career capacity 
and research leadership. 
Key outcomes
By 2025, we will:
 yBe ranked in the top 200 universities globally.
 yHave 10 disciplines ranked in the top 100 in the world, 
including at least two in each academic group.
 yHave increased annual research income by at least $20m 
from the 2019 base, including a significant increase in 
industry income and several major national competitive 
grants successes.
 yOffer at least 15 Griffith-funded postdoctoral  
fellowships a year.
 yHave an integrated and strategic approach to research 
infrastructure spending and maintenance, with a network of 
partnerships that create access to external infrastructure.We recognise the limitations of international rankings,  
but also that they remain useful in allowing us to demonstrate 
the global quality of our work, attract students and staff,  
and partner globally. We will commit to lifting our global 
rankings while staying true to our core values and celebrating 
the importance of those aspects of university life that are not 
measured well in existing rankings.
Key actions
By 2025, we will:
 yEstablish Griffith Beacons, major research concentrations 
providing the interdisciplinary research framework to 
address society’s most pressing challenges and exciting 
opportunities. We will also establish Griffith Spotlights— 
smaller, short-term projects to encourage and support 
interdisciplinary research.
 yEngage in the strategic recruitment of internationally 
recognised researchers to provide the leadership required to 
bring academics together across disciplinary boundaries and 
to engage external partners.
 yInvest increased resources and focus into supporting 
our researchers to commercialise their research or find 
appropriate sources of additional funding outside traditional 
competitive research schemes.
 ySupport researchers to be able, and qualified, to succeed  
in national and international competitive grants and bring  
in new researchers to help improve our success rates.
 yIntegrate high-quality research capability into academic 
hiring for all balanced and research-focused positions.  
Move towards a framework for supporting research 
excellence for existing staff.RESEARCH EXCELLENCE— 
TRANSFORMING 
AGRICULTURE
Griffith researchers are playing a major role in 
helping drive better farming and production lines 
for Australia’s primary industries through the use of 
artificial intelligence technologies. Led by Professor 
Yongsheng Gao at the Institute for Integrated 
and Intelligent Systems, Griffith has developed AI 
technology known as the ‘smart farming system’, 
which is being used in the fruit, vegetable and 
seafood industries delivering efficient transformation 
of agricultural practices and protocols.
| 11 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
 yCreate a wide range of digital badges that will allow  
Griffith graduates to demonstrate their capabilities in 
employment-related skills and activities.
 yEnsure that every undergraduate has a capstone experience 
that is work-related (such as an internship, international 
mobility experience, research project, or participation  
in a national or international competition).
 yProvide an extensive range of options for students looking 
to develop their innovation and entrepreneurship skills 
through curricula and co-curricula opportunities.
 yDevelop opportunities for students to learn outside their 
core disciplines by creating a suite of options designed to 
introduce students to areas such as: data science; business 
skills; innovation and entrepreneurship; behaviour science/
psychology; communications and journalism; Asian culture 
and languages; environment and sustainability; Indigenous 
cultures and knowledge; justice, ethics and human rights.
As well as continuing to provide excellent graduate degrees 
across a range of disciplines, we will develop, through the 
Professional Learning Hub, the Griffith Credentials Program, 
stackable micro-credentials and qualifications to allow 
people to undertake learning experiences in a more flexible, 
responsive and modular fashion.
We will offer a more distinctive value proposition to become 
a university of choice for international students. We will offer 
courses at campuses that are attractive to international 
students and improve the international student experience. 
Our aim of attracting more international students will be 
achieved while maintaining our admissions standards  
and by encouraging diversity in both country of origin  
and discipline mix. We will bring international and domestic 
students together for their mutual benefit.
Griffith’s teachers, already nationally recognised for their 
excellence, will have opportunities to develop their professional 
skills and capabilities in digital learning and transformed 
pedagogy to better prepare the graduates of the future.Griffith has a proud reputation of educational innovation 
and achievement. We have received more national teaching 
awards than any other university, including being the  
home of four Australian University Teachers of the Year.  
Our students have a reputation with employers for their 
technical skills and work readiness, combined with being 
down-to-earth and easy to work with.
Yet we cannot rest on our laurels. Both education and work 
are undergoing rapid change and students are increasingly 
interested in opportunities to start their own businesses as 
well as find traditional employment. We have an opportunity 
through the implementation of our Digital First strategy, 
including the transition to the new Virtual Learning 
Environment and the underpinning Learning and Teaching 
Framework, to transform pedagogy, curriculum, and the 
student experience. We will ensure our transformed  
programs better prepare students for employment or 
entrepreneurial pathways in increasingly digital workplaces, 
and improve student retention. Importantly, we will engage 
our students as co-designers and partners in learning. 
As a research-intensive university, we will also ensure  
that our undergraduate students are engaged with our 
research culture, and have opportunities to develop skills 
and undertake projects including placements within research 
institutes. In particular, our Griffith Beacons will contribute  
to undergraduate teaching through curriculum, internships,  
or workshops.
We also recognise that our relationship with our students is 
lifelong and we need to be agile and responsive in creating  
the right type of learning opportunities to assist people to 
thrive at every stage of their careers.
For our undergraduates, we will introduce the Griffith 
Graduates of the Future program. In addition to providing 
undergraduates with an excellent education in their discipline 
of choice, Griffith will:Learning and teaching: graduates of the future 
STUDENT EXPERIENCE
Caitlene Hillman recognises that a positive student 
experience launched her on the path to graduate 
success. The Griffith Business School student took 
advantage of numerous international study experiences 
in Beijing, London and Hong Kong along with internships 
in investment banking and consulting services.  
Amongst many prizes and awards during her degree 
program, Caitlene was a winner in the Point72 Asset 
Management Competition (Hong Kong), top 6 regional 
finalist in the Hult Prize (Melbourne) and top 4 globally in 
the William and Mary Women’s Stock Pitch Competition 
(USA). Upon completion of her degree program at 
Griffith, Caitlene was selected as a Schwarzman 
Scholar for the Class of 2021 to continue her studies at 
Schwarzman College at Tsinghua University in Beijing. In particular, we will continue the move away from the traditional 
‘lecture, tutorial, exam’ approach to teaching and towards one 
that uses digital technologies creatively, encourages active 
collaborative, offers authentic approaches to teaching and 
assessment, and works in partnership with employers.
Learning Futures will engage in innovative practices and 
support academics to become national leaders in the 
scholarship of teaching and learning.
| 12 | 
Creating a future for all
Key actions
By 2025, we will:
 yIncrease our intake of students from low SES and rural  
and regional backgrounds.
 yImprove retention and completion of students through 
coordinated academic and support services that deliver 
evidence-based interventions to support student success 
and through non-traditional pathways into Griffith.
 yCreate opportunities for as many undergraduates as 
possible to learn outside their core discipline. yImplement a Learning and Teaching Framework that will 
enhance the student experience through active, authentic 
and collaborative learning focused on developing discipline 
knowledge and employability skills.
 yInvest in our Digital campus and the digital capabilities  
of our teaching staff to ensure that all students  
have access to high-quality digital resources and 
technology-enhanced learning, and that our teachers  
are highly regarded professionals in both face-to-face  
and digital learning strategies.
 yDevelop a comprehensive suite of micro-credentials and 
stackable qualifications to address the need for people  
at all stages of their careers/lives to upskill. Many will be  
co-developed with employers and industry partners.
 yFurther strengthen our support for international students  
to help them to succeed in their studies and to have a  
rich experience of life in South East Queensland beyond  
the classroom.
Key outcomes
By 2025, we will have:
 yImplemented the Griffith Graduates of the Future program.
 yEstablished a sustainable and successful suite of  
micro-credentials, including stackable credentials that  
lead to qualifications, suited to worker-learners.
 yImproved the retention and completion of Griffith students 
to above the national average.
 yImproved outcomes in employment for Griffith graduates  
to above the national average.
 ySolidified our position of having student satisfaction 
including teaching excellence in the top quartile in  
Australia for both undergraduates and graduates.
 y25% of our students coming from overseas.GRIFFITH ENGLISH 
LANGUAGE 
ENHANCEMENT 
STRATEGY
Griffith’s award-winning English Language 
Enhancement Strategy (GELES) is testament to  
our commitment to ensuring an outstanding student 
experience for all international students. The Griffith 
Mates, senior domestic and international students 
who assist international students to adjust to life in 
Australia and integrate with domestic students,  
are just one part of the strategy, designed to ensure 
students’ language proficiency continues to improve 
while studying at Griffith. With 91% of international 
students rating their experience at Griffith as 
satisfactory or higher in the 2018 International 
Student Barometer, Griffith is a second home to 
students from 130 countries.TEACHING EXCELLENCE
Griffith has an enviable record in producing the 
nation’s highest-awarded teachers, having claimed 
the Australian University Teacher of the Year  
title a record four times. In 2019, Dr Kevin Larkin  
(maths education) joined former Griffith  
teaching winners in Professor Keithia Wilson 
(psychology, 2007) Professor Brydie-Leigh Bartleet  
(music education, 2014) and Associate Professor 
Halim Rane (Islamic studies, 2015).
| 13 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
Engaging for impact nationally and globally
Over the life of the strategy, we will focus attention on several 
key types of partnership and will strive to make Griffith easier 
to work with, more responsive to the needs of our partners, 
and more agile.
Engagement opportunities of particular importance over the 
life of the strategy include:
 yPartnerships that allow us to carry out large-scale research 
with a focus on end-user impact. Each Griffith Beacon will 
need to have a strategy for partnering both domestically 
and internationally, and we will work cooperatively with 
other universities on major projects and funding proposals.
 yRelationships with governments, international institutions 
and policymakers to assist informed decision-making and 
involvement in the delivery of transformational projects. 
Griffith will build on its existing strength in these areas at  
all levels of Australian government and internationally.
 yPartnerships with employers and entrepreneurs to ensure 
that our curriculum meets the needs of the workforce,  
that our teaching is enriched by regular engagement  
with employers, and that our students have the skills  
and knowledge to thrive in the new economy.
 yStrong engagement with our alumni and supporters 
to ensure that they continue to be part of the Griffith 
community and benefit from being so, and contribute  
to Griffith’s success as ambassadors, mentors, advisers  
and donors.Engagement must be at the heart of Griffith’s way of 
working. It is through engagement that we play a key role  
in driving economic, social, environmental, cultural  
and health benefits for our communities. It is through 
partnerships that we will be able to produce graduates who 
are ready for the new world of work and undertake research 
that tackles the big questions of the future. It is through 
meaningful engagements with our local communities  
and the wider public that we affirm our place as a civic 
university driven by values.
Over the life of this plan, we will partner strategically for 
impact at local, national and international levels, and will 
become even more visible as contributors to public debate, 
public policy and the cultural life in Australia and beyond. 
Domestic engagement
Griffith already partners with a wide range of external parties, 
including universities and research organisations, alumni, 
industry, the professions, government, community and cultural 
organisations, hospitals and health organisations, and schools. 
Those partnerships will be critical for us in the future in helping 
to create opportunities for our students, including supporting 
them into employment, and providing research partnerships.
We are also deeply engaged members of our community, 
enhancing the quality of public debate and contributing to 
public cultural life of our communities.A UNIVERSITY WITH  
A FOCUS ON ASIA
Since opening its doors in 1975 Griffith University 
has focused strongly on the Asian region, offering 
Australia’s first degree in Modern Asian Studies and 
undertaking Asia-relevant research from the outset. 
In our short history, we have forged partnerships 
with many of the region’s premier institutions and 
through the Griffith Asia Institute the University 
continues to be a global thought leader in politics, 
security and economic development in the  
Asia–Pacific region. The University is also a leading 
participant in the New Colombo Plan, supporting 
students to undertake semester-based or  
short-term study, internships, mentorships, 
practicums and research in 40 host locations  
across the Indo-Pacific region.
| 14 | 
Creating a future for all
International engagement
Griffith’s founders had the foresight to recognise that Australia’s 
future would be closely tied to Asia’s fortunes. We know that 
the coming decades will require us to continue to engage 
ourselves in Asia while becoming a global university with an 
international reputation for high-quality education and research.
Griffith is determined to remain one of Australia’s most Asia-
engaged universities through a range of student experiences, 
existing and new university partnerships, and a deepening of 
our Asian research. We will strengthen our historical position as 
a trusted source of expertise on Asia with an emphasis on trade 
and business. We will work actively with both the Queensland 
and Australian governments to provide the support, advice 
and knowledge base that will help our businesses to thrive in 
Asia and to produce graduates who are ready to succeed in an 
Australia that is economically engaged with our Asian partners. 
The University will develop a strategic plan for a full range 
of international partnerships and engagement with core 
countries within Asia and beyond. This will lead to the 
development of a key strategic international university 
partner in six countries—four of them in Asia–Pacific and 
two beyond—with sustained investment to allow for the 
development of university-level ties in areas including student 
mobility, PhD programs, research, and joint teaching programs.
Key actions
By 2025, we will:
 yDevelop stronger links with industry through the creation  
of a new category of academic staff—professors of 
practice—who have achieved significant career success 
outside universities and who will focus on external 
partnerships and obtaining industry funding. yIncrease coordination around opportunities to engage 
students directly with employers (e.g. through internships, 
clinical programs and project-based learning) by creating  
a visible and easy-to-use ‘front door’ to the University  
for employers.
 yLaunch a philanthropic campaign for our 50th anniversary 
based on sustained relationship building with our alumni  
and key supporters.
 yAdopt a stronger, more professional and better-  
coordinated interface with all tiers of government.
 yCreate a new research and public policy hub on Asian  
trade and business to strengthen our credentials as a 
leading source of Asian expertise for the public and  
private sectors in Australia.
 yDevelop a comprehensive international partner strategy 
that will allow us to work more strategically with  
key international collaborators including our major  
existing partners.
 yDevelop a strategy for raising the reputation and profile  
of Griffith, internationally and nationally.
Key outcomes
By 2025, we will:
 yHave at least 10 professors of practice spread across  
all academic groups.
 yIncrease research income and evidence of research  
impact and engagement through partnerships.
 yEstablish whole-of-university partnerships with six  
key international partner universities or institutions, 
including four in the Asia–Pacific region.ENGAGEMENT—  
COASTAL MANAGEMENT
The Griffith Centre for Coastal Management has 
worked closely with the City of Gold Coast for more 
than 20 years, conducting vital scientific research 
into coastal processes including estuarine modelling, 
shoreline management and coastal ocean dynamics. 
The Centre also boosts understanding of natural 
coastal processes through the award-winning 
CoastEd, DuneWatch and BeachCare community 
engagement and citizen science programs. yHave created a new hub of research and engagement with 
issues of business and trade with the Asia–Pacific that  
has demonstrated value at state and national levels.
 yIncrease our reputation in key international rankings. 
| 15 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
| 16 | 
Creating a future for all
Unleashing the potential of our people
Key actions
We will:
 yInvest in professional development for our staff with a 
particular focus on people starting at Griffith, people moving 
into leadership roles, and early and mid-career researchers.
 yReview our policies, processes and systems with a major 
focus on reducing administrative burdens and minimising  
‘pain points’ for staff and students. We will commence with  
a focus on delegations and procurement to eliminate multiple 
layers of authorisation for low-cost/low-risk decisions.
 yRefocus our processes and culture to encourage a more 
student-focused approach to our learning and teaching 
activities and support structures, to remove barriers to 
creative and innovative teaching, and to examine the ways 
in which our systems discourage cross-disciplinary work.
 yUndertake workforce planning to ensure that Griffith has 
the right mix of staff and capability to meet its current and 
future needs. Consideration will be given in this process  
to ensuring better inclusion of under-represented groups  
in relevant areas. 
 yActively work to diversify our revenue streams to provide 
more financial sustainability and reduce the University’s 
reliance on government funding. We will develop the 
capability of academic and professional staff to do this. 
 yBreak down barriers and remove disincentives for  
people to collaborate across academic elements  
and professional offices.
 yUndertake an annual staff survey to measure staff 
engagement and satisfaction.
 ySupport staff to embrace the opportunity provided  
by digital disruption.People are at the heart of all that we do as a university. 
Griffith would not exist without its talented and dedicated 
staff, and enthusiastic and committed students. If we are 
going to build the future workforce that we need to thrive as  
a university, we will need a far more deliberate and strategic 
approach to every aspect of the way that we bring people 
into Griffith and the experience that we give them when 
they are here. 
In the pursuit of our strategic ambitions, Griffith will attract, 
develop and retain outstanding staff and build a strong 
reputation for providing an ambitious and supportive culture 
along with the facilities and resources required to enable 
people to fulfil their potential. We will engage in workforce 
planning in order to take a strategic and proactive approach  
to creating a workforce ready for the challenges of the future. 
Griffith will aim to provide a positive work and study 
environment, and ensure that the right services are delivered 
to meet the specific needs of staff and students. We will 
continue to value diversity and provide an environment where 
people are supported through ample opportunities for career 
development, access to educational, cultural, sporting and 
other extracurricular activities, and programs for health  
and wellbeing. 
We will place a high value on trust and accountability and work 
conscientiously to recast thinking around policies, processes 
and systems to reduce layers of complexity and enable people 
to undertake their roles more efficiently and effectively.
We acknowledge that some of our systems and processes 
presently get in the way of strong performance by our staff 
and we will endeavour to improve these systems where 
possible over the life of the strategy.Key outcomes 
By 2025, we will have:
 yImproved levels of staff satisfaction and engagement  
in annual surveys.
 yReduced unnecessary administration and levels of approval.
 yProvided a high-quality leadership program for all staff  
in significant leadership roles or preparing for such roles,  
and supportive programs for early and mid-career academics.
 yImplemented a workforce plan that has resulted in 
alignment between our strategic goals and our workforce.
 yIncreased our investment in supporting the professional 
development of our existing workforce.| 17 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
Renewal and reinvigoration of  
the Nathan campus
In 2020, we will launch a major new building for Science, 
Engineering and Aviation. Over the life of the strategy,  
we will make further investments to consolidate Griffith 
Sciences in a small number of state-of-the-art buildings  
that incorporate areas for industry partnerships that  
facilitate commercialisation and new research directions.
We will also develop a substantial building that incorporates 
our criminology, psychology and education disciplines.  
Bringing these disciplines across from the Mount Gravatt 
campus will allow for more integrated research between 
sciences, health, humanities and social sciences, offer better 
student support, and use our land more efficiently.
The incorporation of these disciplines onto Nathan will allow 
us to move out of the Mount Gravatt campus within the next 
five to seven years, after negotiating with the Queensland 
Government for an alternative use. While Mount Gravatt  
has a proud history, particularly in educating teachers,  
it is no longer viable as a separate campus.
Gold Coast Health and  
Knowledge Precinct 
Griffith University will make a major capital investment in an 
Advanced Design and Prototyping Technology (ADaPT) 2.0 
building to encourage industry to adopt advanced design  
and prototyping technologies. The facility will be based at  
the Gold Coast Health and Knowledge Precinct (GCHKP), 
where Griffith University and industry are engaging  
to create novel solutions for real-world problems.The quality and positioning of our physical and digital 
environment will be critical to the success of our strategy.  
We will invest about $1 billion over the next decade to 
undertake a major revitalisation of our physical and  
digital infrastructure. 
Every major new investment in our built environment will 
include space for engagement, whether that be space in which 
partners can be located, or facilities and offerings for partners 
to draw on, or elements of design that draw in the general 
public. Our buildings will reflect our desire to create strong, 
enduring partnerships.
A major development in the  
Brisbane CBD
Griffith will position itself more strongly in the Brisbane CBD  
with an ambitious building project. Based on the major 
transport hub, it will make a visible statement about  
Griffith’s capacity and willingness to engage with the public 
and key economic, political, and social players in Brisbane.
Griffith already has a good presence in the CBD with the 
Queensland Conservatorium, Queensland College of the Art 
(QCA), and Griffith Film School (GFS) at South Bank. We will 
bring additional disciplines into the city with a major new 
campus which will incorporate the QCA and GFS along with 
disciplines such as business, public policy and law, where 
engagement with key players in the CBD will enhance the 
student experience and research partnerships. It will include 
our English language school, and its placement in the city 
will also make it an ideal venue to develop our educational 
offerings for those currently in the workforce.
The ground floor of new buildings will include space to draw 
in and engage the general public in areas including arts, public 
debate, scientific developments and community services.The investment in ADaPT 2.0 will: 
 yServe as an open and flexible activation space that will 
provide Griffith University with a vehicle for engagement 
with industry for collaborative research and development.
 yAlign with the Griffith research strategy that will emphasise 
the need to invest in capability to provide interdisciplinary 
and industry-focused research.
 yProvide Griffith University with a platform to attract 
and retain eminent researchers, including Higher Degree 
by Research (HDR) candidates, to help drive research 
excellence and deliver reputational benefits for  
the University.
 yHelp Griffith University align with policy shifts within  
the state and federal governments towards funding  
more industry-focused research.
ADaPT 2.0 will be a flagship for research and industry 
partnership with the capability to take new product concepts 
from idea stage, through industrial/3D functional design, 
prepare digital twins, consider artificial intelligence (AI)/
Internet of Things (IoT) applications, conduct materials 
selection, and produce proof-of-concept for prototyping 
fabrication and testing.Building for a physical and digital future| 18 | 
Creating a future for all
FUTURE-LOOKING 
CAMPUSES
Set in the heart of the emerging Gold Coast  
Health and Knowledge precinct, ADaPT 2.0  
(Advance Design and Prototyping Technologies)  
is pushing Griffith into the fore of new  
technologies including micro-design, 3D printing, 
AI, bioengineering and industrial design. The $80m 
centre will be home to the future of advance design, 
manufacturing and medicine and provides a key 
conduit for engagement with industry.
| 19 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
Opening up the Logan campus
The Logan campus plays a vital role in the Logan community, 
with strong partnerships with other key institutions 
including the Logan hospital, TAFE, Council and community 
organisations. The Logan Together project, which aims  
to substantially improve the lives of, and outcomes for,  
young children in the Logan area, is a wonderful example  
of the benefits of these kinds of partnerships.
The Logan campus has considerable available space and a need 
to create a critical mass of users to allow for the provision of 
services such as childcare, food services and other support 
services. Through our partnerships, there is a potential to 
bring facilities owned and operated by partners in areas 
such as health onto the campus. This would also create the 
opportunity to deepen the teaching and research elements  
of these relationships. The potential for such partnerships 
would be enhanced by a government commitment to  
greater connectivity between the University and other  
key institutions. Digital infrastructure
Griffith University will make a major investment in digital 
infrastructure and services over the coming decade in 
support of our major functions of learning and teaching, 
research and engagement. Deployment of new educational 
technologies will improve course delivery with the shift to the 
new Virtual Learning Environment being a moment for our 
digital experts to work with our innovative teachers to create 
a learning experience that is seamless across the digital and 
physical world. We will use technology to make it easier for 
prospective students to find the best course for them and to 
have their questions answered and their enrolment completed 
as efficiently as possible. We will develop next-generation 
relationship management systems to support our partnerships 
with industry, government, donors and alumni, and invest 
strategically in digital research infrastructure. This will provide 
high-quality on-campus resources befitting a world-class 
research university while improving researcher access to 
external infrastructure where appropriate.
Our investment in digital infrastructure must be financially 
sustainable in the long term and take into account  
whole-of-life costs such as maintenance, support and  
cyber security.
We will simplify the technology environment wherever 
practical and ensure we provide services that are easy to 
access and use. We will build on the technical literacy of 
the Griffith community to ensure they benefit from new 
developments in technology. Where appropriate, we will take 
advantage of technological shifts and implement services that 
are fit-for-purpose for the Griffith community, reduce time 
undertaking administrative tasks and improve the student  
and staff experience.Key infrastructure outcomes 
By 2025, we will have:
 yCompleted the ADaPT 2.0 building at the Gold Coast and 
commenced operations with initial industry partners.
 yCompleted the new building on the Nathan campus and 
have completed or be close to completion of the move out 
of Mount Gravatt.
 yMade significant progress on the CBD site.
 yCompleted the master planning process for the Logan 
campus and have commenced operationalising it.
 ySuccessfully transitioned to the new Virtual Learning 
Environment and supported faculty to use this environment 
in a way that transforms the student experience.
 yStreamlined and automated the admissions processes 
to provide a responsive and individualised pathway to 
enrolment, with reduced turnaround times to admissions.
 yImplemented a Customer Relationship Management system 
that supports relationships with future students, alumni, 
industry and other partners.| 20 | 
Creating a future for all
| 21 | 
Griffith Strategic Plan 2020–2025
Griffith University uses paper from responsible sourcesgriffith.edu.au
© 2019 Griffith University
CRICOS No. 00233E  J002439
