 
     
  
Research Strategy of  
TU Darmstadt –  
Executive Summary  
  
   As of 2 4 June 2022  
   
 
       
 
         
 
        

 
  1 Preliminary Remarks  
 
Beginning in April 2020, participants representing all university status groups and departments worked 
to develop this research strategy . Following approval  of the Senate i n May 2021, the Executive B oard 
adopted  it and has begun its  systematic implementati on.  
 The research strategy is part of TU Darmstadt's overall strategy, comprised of  the three pillars of research, 
teaching and xchange , which are accompanied  by the cross -cutting themes  of internationalisation, 
diversity , digitalisation and sustainability . 
 
Our Vision  
 At our Technical U niversity , research provides ground -breaking findings  and solutions  that address  
today's unanswered  questions in addition to generating the ideas of tomorrow. Our research  is 
substantial, sustainably excellent, transformative and attractive for inquiring  students and researchers  
from all over the world. At TU Darmstadt, we clarify fundamental issues and translate scientific findings into technical and social processes and s olutions.  
 
Characteristics of our Research  
 
Academic and t echnical competence, interdisciplinary collaboration, contemporary relevance and credibility are 
characteristics of our research.  We link theory  and experiment to address the challenges of the futu re. 
 The following features characterise research at TU Darmstadt:  
1. A broad portfolio of subjects with strong disciplines, that  cooperate intensively across depart ment 
and subject boundaries .  
2. The interconnection of strong basic and application -oriented research  and an  exchange (xchange ) 
with society, business and politics.  
3. Above-average success in the competitive acquisition of t hird-party funding for our research as well 
as a strong research network, as evidenced by Collaborative Research Centres, Transregio nal 
Collaborative Research Centres , EU projects , etc.  
4. The presence of excellent, internationally visible researchers  whose contributions  in the ir respective 
scientific  communit ies are recognised  through awards as well as  through  participation in scientific 
organisations (e.g. German Science Council, selection committee of the ERC Scientific Council).  
5. A systematic and early research orientation in all life cycles of academic qualification ( degree studies, 
doctorate, postdoc, junior research group leadership, tenure track professorship) with structured 
financi al and personnel development concepts.  
6. A strategic network with scientific institutions  in the surrounding area, industrial and international 
partners , as well as through our Alliance of Rhine -Main Universities (RMU) and the European 
University Alliance Unite!  
7. The unique status of autonomy  of our university , which offers extensive scopes for action and entails 
great responsibility, which we are happy to assume.  
 
 
  2 Our Goals  
 
Our research strategy  seeks to achieve the following goals by 2025:  
 Goal 1:  We exhibit sustained  excellen ce and enhance professional as well as individual scientific 
quality as the basis of  interdisciplinary  collaboration .  
In order to achieve this goal,  we use our autonomy to facilitate  and expand cutting -edge 
research . We expand  our research community through diversification and internationalisation.   
 Goal 2 :  We increase the international and national reputation  and visibility  of our research 
performance. We form strong, international research alliances. 
We achieve this goal by consistently pursuing the path to becoming a European University of Technology. We intensify  our scientific cooperation with outstanding partners around the 
world.  
 Goal 3:  We identify  and promote forward -looking , relevant potentials , topics and ideas.   
We pursue this goal in order to remain successful in the long term and to contribute  to 
transformat ive technolog ies and ideas for  society  in the future.  We remain agile, flexible and 
dynamic.  
 Goal 4:  We continuously strengthen exchange s (xchange ) with  business, society and politics, which 
includes a better communication of our  expertise. 
We acknowledge our responsibility and demand the highest relevance and credibility f rom our 
research and its communication.  
 
Goal 5 :  We acknowledge that we are representatives of TU Darmstadt and are aware of our special TU 
Spirit . We strive to maintain and support our institution and its ideals in our relationships with 
external  partners.  
The TU Spirit identified in the course of the strategy process contributes significantly to the 
high satisfaction, motivation and commitment of all TU members.  We also want to use this 
attitude interacting  with our partner universities. We activ ely involve new colleagues  as well,  
who have recently arrived at the TU.  
 Goal 6:  We provide excellent support for early career researchers . 
We implement  research -oriented teaching and learning and provide structured support for the 
qualification of doctoral researchers.  
 Goal 7:  We professionalise and digitise the organisation and administration  of research  activities , 
resulting in  dynamic, flexible and proactive promotion of scientific work. We provide structural  
support for sharing methodological expertise and infrastructure.  
 
 
Our Main Research Fields  
 The focus of research at TU Darmstadt concentrates on three interdisciplinary research fields:  
• Energy and Environment  (E+E) ,  
• Information and Intelligence (I+I) , 
• Matter and Materials  (M+M) .  
In these research fields, researchers from different disciplines both form and shape  research networks in 
order to contribute  to major soci etal issues. At the same time, these networks  are a place of exchange 
with society, politics and academia . In additio n, each research field contains  so-called profile topics . TU 
Darmstadt is either internationally known  for excellent research  on these  profile  topics , demonstrated 
 
  3 e.g. by large collaboration networks , or developing these profile topics for strategic reasons. Research 
fields and profile topics contribute significantly to achieving the above -mentioned goals.  
 
 
Research  Fields  and Profile Topics  
 
 
The research field Energy and Environment (E+E)  encompasses an  interdisciplinary commitment to 
modern conce pts and technologies for energy conversion and storage, environmentally friendly 
processes, efficient use of resources and climate- neutral mobility. For example, o ur researchers 
investigate  hydrogen and iron as energy carriers, water as one of our most important resources, energy -
efficient cooling systems, cross -sectoral heat and power grids as well as  on climate -neutral 
transportation .  
 
The research field Information and Intelligence (I+I)  is dedicated to the intelligent and responsible use 
of information and knowledge, which is of very fundamental importance in our di gital and global age. 
Here, researchers from various  disciplines address, for example, artificial intelligence, intelligent and 
resilient data networks, IT security , protection of privacy, autonomous robotic systems and automation 
for tomorrow's economy, as well as patterns of human thought and action that are so important for our 
technical developments.  
 
The research field Matter and Materials (M + M)  aims at  fundamentally understanding matter as well 
as developing materials that enable sustainab ility and advancement  in various application areas. Our 
researchers combine findings from basic research studies and different disc iplines with applications for 
energy conversion, electronics and sensor technology as well as synthetic biology. In doing so, they strive 
to avoid critical raw materials and to establish a sustainable supply  chain from the beginning as they 
consider  materi al selection, productio n, use, and end-of-use recycling.  

