 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY PLAN 2021 – 2025  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
October 2020 

2 
 Contents 
1. Policy principles and objectives  ......................................................................................................... 3 
2. Education  ............................................................................................................................................ 4 
3. Research and Service Delivery  ........................................................................................................... 6 
4. South policy and internationalisation  ............................................................................................... 8 
5. North policy and internationalisation  ............................................................................................... 9 
6. Timing  ............................................................................................................................................... 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 2020, a renewed management agreement was concluded between the Flemish Community and 
the Institute of Development Policy and Management (IOB). As agreed, IOB drafted a new Policy Plan 
(in Dutch) in 2020.  
This document is the English translation of an excerpt of IOB’s Policy Plan 2021-2025 .  
In this extract, we focus on IOB’s broader policy principles, but also on more concrete strategies in 
the fields of education, research, international collaboration and knowledge brokering. 
3 
 1. Policy principles and objectives 
 
In line with the previous policy plan, and in execution of its mission statement, IOB wants to 
maintain, renew and further expand its own niche in development studies1.  
As elaborated in our vision text and in the perspective of a critical contribution to Agenda 2030 of 
the Sustainable Development Goals, IOB wants to make a meaningful contribution to the realisation 
of a just and sustainable world . It wants to do this through relevant and high-quality research  and 
education , innovative global partnerships  and strategic engagement in political decision-making 
processes  from the local to the global level. 
The starting point remains that the realisation of a more just and sustainable world is subject to 
social debate and therefore requires socio-cultural-political-economic choices. The realisation of a 
more just and sustainable world is obviously a challenge for various actors, in the South and in the 
North, and a challenge that goes far beyond the traditional field of development actors. IOB joins 
this agenda from its own mandate and expertise. The academic challenge lies in providing insights 
and perspectives that can inform these choices and recognise and bridge or re-articulate possible 
contradictions. In this context, IOB is uniquely positioned as a bridge to and focus on the Global 
South; as an institute with a particular concern for the fair global distribution of 'costs' and 'benefits' 
from a South perspective and with a history of collaboration with academics in the Global South that 
allows for a concerted approach to current challenges. 
In light of this, we cultivate 'mixed methods'  scientific approaches that attempt to involve "a 
plurality of philosophical paradigms, theoretical assumptions, methodological traditions, data 
collection and analysis techniques, personal understandings and value judgements..." (Green, 2007) 
in teaching, research and service delivery. As expressed in a Ghanaian (Ewe) proverb that states, 
"Wisdom is like a baobab: no one individual is able to embrace it" .  
Such an approach allows the development process to be understood as a relating and critical mutual 
questioning of different 'mental models' of relevant stakeholders in order to reach a deeper and 
more relevant (also mutual) understanding of challenges and solutions. This is also the right 
approach for IOB to take when it comes to the decolonisation of our ways of thinking, especially 
when these wrongly and mostly unconsciously pretend to represent universal rather than specific 
historical-cultural knowledge. Such thinking paradoxically undermines the productive potential of 
'relating'.  
IOB understands the development potential in a framework of multi-level and multi-actor  
governance that takes into account local, national and global dynamics. As an institute in the global 
North, we are well placed to map the connections between these different levels and also to actively 
function as a node within a global network and platform for academic cooperation and debate. 
IOB intends to maintain a strong focus on the  less privileged, low-income countries (especially in 
Central Africa) , where the agenda of equity and sustainability is a challenge all on its own and which 
suffer more than others do from the unequal balance of power in the world. With the expertise IOB 
has developed in these contexts in recent years, we believe we can add most value here.  
                                                           
1 We are choosing to for now maintain the term ‘development studies’, but acknowledge that in the changing 
international context, it may be necessary to review this in the upcoming policy period (see below). 
4 
 Given the increasingly global and connected nature of development challenges, IOB wants to use its 
expertise with academic activity and cooperation in the South to actively seek complementarity and 
cooperation with academics and actors with an agenda of justice and sustainability in the global 
North, if possible also with the participation of our Southern partners who are interested in this. 
IOB also wants to remain the learning organisation  that regularly questions the relevance and 
effectiveness of its own activities and renews its agendas and working methods when necessary. 
This is ensured by embedding university-wide mechanisms of monitoring and evaluation as well as 
regular external audits and by integrating these mechanisms into IOB's own policy processes. 
Finally, we are also very much aware that the context in which our Institute operates – more than in 
the past decades – will change very rapidly and possibly radically. This means that we must continue 
to prepare ourselves, possibly in order to adapt our consolidated, positively appreciated practices 
and our current policy plans flexibly to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. That is why, 
in the next policy period, we definitely want to take up the important recommendation of the audit 
committee to continue reflecting on our role, our identity and our strategies in this changing and 
challenging context  and to do so by reflecting and updating the 'IOB DNA'  (core mission, 
competences, core values, ...).  
This need is also motivated by the fact that a large part of the supporting staff of the institute was 
renewed fairly recently and should, in the next phase, be fully involved in policy implementation and 
renewal. (Note: The start of this exercise was planned as part of the preparation process of this 
policy plan, but could not take place because of the corona-related restrictions). 
 
 
2. Education 
 
As far as education is concerned, these are the policy principles for the period 2021-2024: 
1. In line with the efforts made by IOB within the framework of the previous policy plan, the 
points for improvement resulting from the NVAO visit and positive evaluations, IOB wants to 
continue to expand our qualitative master's programmes and other educational initiatives 
based on research and service provision. IOB is a learning organisation  that adjusts 
educational programmes based on internal processes of quality control set up by the 
University of Antwerp and external evaluations.  
2. Given the positive evaluations by VLIR-UOS of the IOB Going Global (VLIR ICP/IF incremental 
funding) programmes and its own student surveys, IOB intends to continue the IOB Going 
Global strategy  in which the globalisation and decolonisation of our Master's programmes  
play a central role. In the elaboration of IOB Going Global 2.0, IOB will further deepen the 
existing partnerships with partners in Nicaragua, Tanzania, DR Congo and the Philippines and 
possibly expand them to some other countries. In addition, the opportunity and desirability 
of jointly offering a broader educational portfolio, and in particular specific doctoral 
programmes, in the South will be investigated. The new phase of the VLIR UOS ICP/IF 
programme is expected to provide funding, but other sources will also be sought.  
In addition, it will be investigated whether diversification of partnerships  is possible, both in 
terms of (lighter) forms of cooperation (e.g. platforms, internships) and in terms of type of 
5 
 partners (e.g. with non-academic partners and via alumni). In the selection of new 
partnerships, opportunities will be actively sought to further institutionalise already existing 
collaborations of individual IOB staff members. In this way, the support for IOB Going Global 
within IOB is also increased, which contributes to sustainability. Platforms and 'Communities 
of Practice' (CoPs) can be a way to shape cooperation between the various South partners, 
something that will receive more attention within IOB Going Global 2.0. In order to create 
both academic and development impact, IOB will further valorise the nexus between 
education - research - outreach .  
Central to all these education initiatives remains the connection with (joint) research and 
outreach. Synergies between the various instruments of cooperation within Going Global 
(mobility windows for students, joint research and 'twinning' with local students, co-creation 
of subjects, educational modules and summer/winter schools, Master's programmes, alumni 
working, etc.) will be strengthened.  
3. IOB sees the challenges of the recent digitisation wave following the corona crisis as an 
opportunity to experiment further with blended learning  and to think about innovations in 
education , both at IOB itself and with and among partners and IOB alumni. This can 
potentially also contribute to greater independence from existing VLIR-UOS grants (the VLIR-
UOS grants and IF policy is currently being reworked), by attracting more self-funding 
students and actively applying for other grant channels (e.g. Erasmus Plus). The experiments 
with blended learning and other educational innovations will be closely monitored. Extra 
attention will be paid to safeguarding the IOB DNA of intercultural exchange and 
networking  and to limiting possible exclusion mechanisms related to the already existing 
digital gap. Where necessary, IOB will take flanking measures, such as setting up a digital 
mentoring system. In order to more actively address the issue of 'widening access' in line 
with the SDG principle of 'leaving no one behind' , IOB will investigate the possibility of 
including additional criteria (e.g. social or ethnic origin, persons with disabilities, etc.) in 
grant selection.  
4. IOB already developed an extensive alumni cooperation , organizing activities for alumni 
(and students) within eleven different alumni engagement domains (research, employability, 
recognition, outreach, professional development, ...) in the North, the South and online. 
In a next phase IOB aims to further broaden the alumni work – with the start-up of new 
alumni departments (departments in the North, DR Congo), a wider range of online activities 
and activities outside the core countries of IOB Going Global and involving alumni in IOB 
community building with students.  
On the other hand, IOB aims to deepen alumni cooperation in which the valorisation of 
alumni expertise in strengthening IOB education and research (e.g. joint research, 
community of practice, ...) as well as supporting alumni in their role as 'change agents for 
development' is central. The alumni barometer research, a joint Global Minds research 
project with alumni as co-researchers, maps the contribution of IOB graduates to 
development in the different impact arenas. 
5. The offer of a high quality doctoral programme  in Development Studies will be continued, 
as well as the cooperation with the sister faculties Business and Economics (FBE) and Social 
Sciences (FSW) of the UAntwerpen. The possibilities of organising specific doctoral courses 
will be examined, possibly also in the framework of the renewed educational cooperation 
with partners in the South (see also point 2). Stimulating joint PhDs with universities in 
Belgium and abroad remains an important way to strengthen the IOB networks with 
(inter)national peers and partners and is in line with UAntwerpen's policy in this regard. 
Within these collaborations the quality and own identity of an IOB PhD in Development 
6 
 Studies is preserved, among others by means of the recently explicated criteria in the note 
"PhD in Development Studies at IOB" . This note was added to the IOB doctoral regulations 
and the "IOB roadmap doctorate". The criteria will be monitored by the IOB doctoral 
committee when assessing a doctoral application, as well as by the doctoral jury when 
following the doctoral track.  
6. IOB will continue to make efforts to strengthen the international and South dimension 
within UAntwerpen  in order to reinforce our university as a global academic development 
actor and IOB as one of the active partners in this, in line with the current policy statement 
of the rector. This is achieved by, among other things, the broadening of the course Global 
Justice, the course Debating Development in cooperation with the University Foundation for 
Development Cooperation (USOS), the delivery of courses in various faculties and IOB 
engagement in USOS, but also through a policy of inter-faculty research cooperation  (e.g. 
Methusalem Project AIPRIL). Methusalem project AIPRIL FSW-IOB-FLW, TT-ZAPBOF research 
professor FRECH/IOB, TT-ZAPBOF History/IOB 'Contemporary history of Central Africa', the 
Global Minds 'alumni barometer research', new BOF GOA projects on 'Green Bonds Urban 
Development',...) and through the active role that IOB takes in the renewed 
internationalisation policy of the UAntwerpen . 
 
 
3. Research and Service Delivery 
 
IOB wants to further consolidate its position as an international player  in the field of development 
studies. In the coming policy period, this will be done by further developing and updating the current 
research plan, with one central research agenda elaborated within the three renewed research lines.  
IOB also seeks to sustainably consolidate its research productivity by further pursuing a 'sustainable 
excellence' policy , with more emphasis on quality, relevance and impact instead of the excessive 
pursuit of purely quantitative output. This is made concrete, among other things, by assigning 
different publication points to A, B and C publications in the publication evaluation matrix; by 
lowering the quantitative criteria for external funding; and by clarifying the evaluation criteria for 
internal and external services. The latter are now not only more explicitly mentioned, but also linked 
to institutional objectives of societal service delivery. 
These institutional objectives of societal service delivery are, among others, aimed at the further 
development of long-term co-operation with both North and South partners , whereby the aim is to 
achieve an 'embedded IOB' in networks and/or platforms for research and service provision. For the 
partners in the South, the aim is to further deepen the already institutionally structured cooperation 
with existing long-term partners, but also to explore – in consultation with these partners – 
broadening. As far as the Northern partners are concerned, we are looking for added value through 
a more institutionally directed cooperation with a few priority partners, compared to the current 
decentralised and mainly ad-hoc process with a multitude of Northern partners. A strategic direction 
(in a rapidly evolving and competitive landscape) of the Northern partnerships would – according to 
the audit of the Flemish Community (October 2019) – increase the visibility of IOB, and lead to both 
a greater societal and academic impact. 
7 
 The (institutional) networks with Southern partners allow for further reflection – and in dialogue – 
on the necessary decolonisation  of institutions such as IOB in the changing global context, and also 
ties in with (but is not limited to) the debate on the colonial past and its repercussions. This 
reflection will be fed, among others, by the series of debates 'Debating Development', which in the 
academic year 2020-21 will be entirely devoted to the academic and societal debate on 
decolonisation. This will also be done in cooperation with the University Foundation for 
Development Cooperation (USOS) of UAntwerpen, which offers the possibility to connect to 
activities and reflections with the broader group of students and staff at the university. It is also a 
theme of the UAntwerpen expert group on 'Global Engagement'. In time, the aim is to achieve more 
far-reaching co-creation of research and services between IOB and its various partners in the South. 
Up to now, this co-creation has almost always been driven by IOB in bilateral relations with 
individual South partners and usually focused on specific South themes.  
In the coming policy period, we will strive for a multilateral network or platform approach  in both 
agenda-setting and joint implementation of research, as well as for broadening the cooperation 
beyond specific local themes to global, transversal or possibly even specific – for our Southern 
partners – Northern themes. Within GLAC, a platform dynamic is already in place, actively seeking to 
connect and put into dialogue Northern and Southern expertise in an equal manner. Involving our 
Southern partners in the development of the 2022-2026 research plan will be an additional step in 
this process.  
Also nourished by its broader research agenda and specifically from these international partner 
dynamics, IOB continues to profile itself as an 'embedded knowledge broker’ in the Flemish-Belgian 
and European context , through the co-creation of knowledge with other relevant stakeholders on 
the (inter)national plane, as the knowledge centre par excellence  for development issues in general, 
and more specifically as knowledge centre and knowledge broker towards the actors of Flemish, 
Belgian, and European development cooperation and of Belgian and European foreign policy. 
In line with this, IOB also wants to profile itself more strongly within the University of Antwerp and 
actively participate in the new 'Global Minds programme'  (VLIR-UOS funding) that strives for a more 
active role of the University of Antwerp as a partly South-inspired and informed academic actor for 
innovative international cooperation for global justice and sustainability. IOB also actively 
participates in the university-wide expert group that advises the rector on the policy regarding 
'Cooperation with the South and Global Engagement'. The research embedding in the University of 
Antwerp is further nourished by other trans-faculty research initiatives (e.g. Methusalem project, TT-
ZAPBOF 'Sustainable Development' with the Faculty of Law and 'Contemporary History of Africa' 
with History, BOF GOA project proposals, etc.). 
In order to fulfil its role as knowledge broker, IOB continues to work on an active research 
communication strategy . This will be determined with the help of the recently recruited additional 
ATP support, in order to increase the visibility of the research agenda and strengthen the generated 
output, outreach and impact, both at national and international level. The broad outlines of the 
communication strategy are set centrally, and translated into outreach evaluation criteria. In order 
to develop the strategy, we will opt for a pragmatic, bottom-up approach, within the framework of 
the generic outreach criteria. Existing communication channels will be analysed, reinforced where 
necessary and used as efficiently as possible. Synergy with other IOB communication (especially 
alumni and education) and with networks inside and outside UAntwerpen will be further pursued. In 
the short term, the generic communication and outreach strategy will be consolidated in an 
institutional policy document 'societal service delivery'.  
8 
 Finally, IOB will continue to work on its own branding as an institute . The focus on justice and 
sustainable development on the one hand, and on the other a systematic emphasis on the added 
value of combining various disciplines, perspectives and points of departure in research (the so-
called 'mixed methods' approach, Green, 2007), with the cultivation of specific attention and space 
for perspectives from the Global South, form the red thread for this branding. Our strong (non-
exclusive) focus on and historical expertise in the countries of Central Africa also remains an 
important element of our profiling. 
 
 
4. South policy and internationalisation 
 
IOB has a long tradition of often structural long-term, but also more ad hoc, cooperation with 
academic (and sometimes non-academic) partners in the Global South. IOB will continue the 
incentive policy to stimulate South-South cooperation for academic staff. After all, we remain 
strongly convinced of the importance of these collaborative relationships  for the relevance and 
continued added value of IOB, particularly in the changing international context in which challenges 
such as hunger, poverty, welfare, participation and citizenship, security, climate change and 
environmental sustainability are becoming more global and can no longer be considered a separate 
South issue. As explained elsewhere in this policy plan, our structural South cooperation in particular 
offers additional opportunities for co-creation in education, research and service delivery to tackle 
this agenda together in a truly global and decolonised way. The willingness to have our often 
historically-culturally situated academic principles and ways of thinking questioned is a necessary 
and productive condition for a North institute to continue to participate in a correct manner in the 
international debate in the future, based on our situated positions and convictions.  
A specific focus of IOB in this respect is the attention to Central Africa . IOB has a unique 
concentration of expertise on the region and an excellent network of contacts at its disposal. That is 
why we continue to invest in long-term partnerships, for the time being with UCB-Bukavu and 
possibly with some new partners, and in the GLAC platform, which actively connects Northern and 
Southern expertise on the region and aims to further narrow the gap between Northern and 
Southern expertise in the field of Africa studies. The yearbooks "Annuaire des Grands Lacs" and 
"Conjonctures congolaises", merged since 2018 as "Conjonctures de l'Afrique centrale" and 
published in cooperation with the AfricaMuseum and the Université Catholique de Louvain, are 
strategic tools to further develop this platform. The cooperation with the international non-profit 
organisation E-CA-CRE-AC (Belgian Reference Centre for Expertise on Central Africa) also creates the 
possibility of establishing new contacts with policy makers, civil society organisations and private 
actors in Belgium and Central Africa by organising monthly "policy talks" in the Federal Parliament. 
IOB also wants to focus on the organisation of workshops and conferences in the region, whether or 
not in cooperation with other partners. 
The continued relevance and sustainability of our South cooperation, especially in the perspective of 
the challenges mentioned above, requires a further clarification and deepening of our partner 
relations. We acknowledge that the notion of South partnerships in itself risks becoming a new buzz 
word of the development discourse (also at IOB) and that elaborating and consolidating equal, 
'decolonial' academic partnerships in a context of historical and current inequalities is not an easy 
9 
 task. Although there is room for further expansion of our South cooperation, the total IOB capacity 
for cooperation in the South is inevitably limited, and not all partners have sufficient available 
capacity or interest in the cooperation we are seeking. As indicated in the audit, choices have to be 
made.  
Cooperation with the South is also inevitably a 'work in progress' – but one for which a real 
'progress' towards equivalence is an essential condition for our credibility and lasting effectiveness 
in the cooperation process. For that reason, IOB will continue the reflection and consultation process 
already initiated, internally and with a selection of current partners in the South, in order to arrive at 
a supported clarification of our cooperation with the South . This will also allow this cooperation to 
be differentiated in terms of types of cooperation relationships – long-term partners, networks, 
platform, alumni operation, etc. – and in terms of the way in which it can be implemented. Inspired 
by similar codes of conduct (e.g., within the European Horizon 2020 programme), we will at the 
same time work on an explicit code of conduct  for all our academic relations with – almost by 
definition – weaker partners in the South and on a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the 
application of this code. 
A permanent point of attention, and an explicit point for improvement within the follow-up process 
of the audit and also mentioned in the audit of the Flemish Community, concerns the 
internationalisation and diversification of the IOB staff . For a long time, IOB has been making a 
serious effort to attract more foreign staff at all levels. This policy has been very successful on the 
AAP and BAP levels, but not on the ZAP and ATP. At the crucial ZAP level, the strict, objectified (but 
perhaps also too Western/Anglo-Saxon oriented) selection criteria and the internationally 
comparatively less interesting Flemish academic statute, among other things, did not allow us to 
internationalise the staff for the time being. For future ZAP vacancies, IOB will continue to look for 
good international candidates, but in the meantime it is strongly committed to deepening the 
international South cooperation  as a partial alternative for the internationalisation of the staff 'at 
home'. Besides the many initiatives already described, the instrument of the 'Scholars in Residence'  
(SIR), with priority for researchers from the South, will be consolidated. Given the specific language 
and other competences, the possibilities for internationalisation of the ATP are more limited 
anyway, but in the future it will be possible to recruit from the diversity of the city of Antwerp and 
its surroundings. 
 
 
5. North policy and internationalisation 
 
IOB already cooperates intensively with a multitude of universities and centres in the Global North. 
So far, these have largely been the result of individual initiatives and are usually not (yet) embedded 
in a broader institutional strategy, or not explicitly so. During the next policy period, we want to 
actively address the audit's recommendation that 'it seems desirable for IOB to make clear choices in 
this respect (in a rapidly evolving and competitive landscape) and determine to what extent a more 
strategic management of these Belgian and international networks can strengthen IOB's branding 
and outreach'. This means that it will be further investigated  if and where more structural and 
explicit partnerships can contribute positively to the objectives of IOB. It will also be investigated 
where existing, stable partnerships can be made more visible . It is, however, not the intention to 
10 
 trap all individual and more pragmatic cooperation initiatives within a collective, institutional 
straitjacket. 
As indicated elsewhere in this policy plan, a first, nearby and priority North partner within social 
work is our home university, the University of Antwerp , where IOB wishes to play an important role 
in strengthening the role of the UA as a global development actor within the changing global society 
and within which IOB wishes to develop an important specific contribution as a bridge to the South 
(see also above). Also for other dimensions of our societal service delivery, we will examine where 
added value can be created by expanding or making more visible structural Northern collaborations, 
such as the collaboration with other Belgian universities within E-CA-CRE-AC or the interaction with 
the European Microfinance Platform (e-MFP) and the European Centre for Microfinance Research 
(CERMI).  
Also within our IOB Going Global 2.0. education strategy, additional or alternative opportunities  will 
be explored by deepening cooperation with like-minded European or other international 'North' 
universities (e.g. within an Erasmus Plus initiative or international doctoral cooperation). A similar 
exercise will be included in the elaboration of the new research plan 2022-2027. 
 
 
6. Timing 
 
 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 
General policy:      
Reflection DNA IOB & future strategy X X X   
Reflection decolonisation IOB X X    
South policy: concept and strategy X     
Code of conduct South relations  X    
North policy: concept and strategy X X X   
Education:      
IOB Going Global 2.0 X X X X X 
Digitisation/blended learning X X    
Alumni barometer survey X     
South dimension UAntwerpen X X X X X 
Research:      
Drawing up a research policy plan 2022-2026 X     
Drawing up a research policy plan 2022-2026   X   
Expansion of platform or network approach X X X X X 
Service delivery/Outreach:      
Consolidate institutional outreach policy X     
Investigate possibility of international benchmark 
for social work  X X   
 
