2020–2025
Strategic Plan
Contents
 Our world. Our purpose.  1
 2030 Vision, Values and Pillars 2
 Goal 1: Empowering students for their future 6
 Goal 2: Creating knowledge for a better world 8
Goal 3: Making a difference for our communities 10
Transformative Priorities  12
Strategic Enablers  14
Realising our Strategy 16Acknowledgement  
of Country
We acknowledge that Country for Aboriginal 
peoples is an interconnected set of ancient and 
sophisticated relationships.
The University of Wollongong spreads across many 
interrelated Aboriginal Countries that are bound by 
this sacred landscape, and intimate relationship with 
that landscape since creation.
From Sydney to the Southern Highlands, to the 
South Coast.
From fresh water to bitter water to salt.
From city to urban to rural.
The University of Wollongong acknowledges the 
Custodianship of the Aboriginal peoples of this 
place and space that has kept alive the relationships 
between all living things.
The University acknowledges the devastating 
impact of colonisation on our campuses’ footprint 
and commit ourselves to truth-telling, healing and 
education.
Professor Patricia M. Davidson  
Vice-Chancellor and PresidentOur current times highlight the 
need for an ever-increasing forward 
momentum, as our world is 
shaped by geopolitical, economic, 
environmental, health and 
technological mega forces.  
While some can find this disruption 
unsettling, at UOW we embrace it. 
With change comes opportunity for 
the University, our students, staff, 
partners and communities; to learn, 
to better connect, to innovate, to 
evolve.  
As an anchor institution both at 
home and internationally, our 
expansive global footprint means we 
are well placed to be at the forefront 
of change, and create a purposeful future for our communities. We are 
able to fulfil our vision to inspire a 
better future through education, 
research and partnership, addressing 
issues of importance across all of our 
communities.  
Our 2020 – 2025 Strategic Plan 
outlines the steps towards achieving 
our vision, using our trust-based 
partnership, transdisciplinary and 
whole-of-institution approach to 
deliver change that matters, and 
make the world a better place. 
ARTWORK BY SAMANTHA 
HILL, DHARAWAL/ 
WANDANDIAN WOMANOur world.
Our purpose.
Strategic Plan 2020–2025
1
Our Vision, Values and Pillars will be 
our strategic compass guiding this 
Strategic Plan and 2030 and Beyond:  
A Purposeful Future.Ou r Va lues
OPENNESS
We are driven and determined, yet 
collegial and ethical in all that we do. 
We are always looking to serve our 
communities and share our knowledge 
and expertise with them for mutual 
betterment.
EXCELLENCE
We work tirelessly to excel in our research 
and education, and to address complex, 
real-world problems in partnership with 
our communities.
EMPOWERMENT
We celebrate the freedom to have 
different opinions and different ideas. 
We encourage the asking of difficult 
questions and discovery of innovative 
solutions.DIVERSITY
We aspire to set the standard for 
inclusiveness, diversity and equity. We 
welcome –and benefit from –the diversity 
of our communities within Australia 
and internationally. We will continue to 
champion Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander Reconciliation.
RECOGNITION
We celebrate the hard work and 
dedication of our staff and recognise and 
reward their achievements. We expect 
all our staff to meet the challenges of our 
changing world by seizing opportunities 
that deliver continuous improvement.Our Vision
Inspiring a better  
future through  
education, research  
and partnership
Strategic Plan 2020–2025
2
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 3
GLOBAL OUTLOOK
We will continue to focus on 
interdisciplinary teaching and research 
that harnesses the collective ideas, 
innovations and strengths of our global 
network. 
We will understand our responsibility as 
global citizens and the enormous scope 
of positive change that is possible as we 
address the local and global challenges  
of today and tomorrow. 
We will embrace the changing landscape 
of learning for life to ensure students 
and our alumni continue to have access 
to a personalised supportive learning 
environment wherever they are in  
the world.TRUST BUILT THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS
The strength of our partnerships 
and willingness to engage with our 
communities will continue to see us 
prosper as a trusted global University.
We will collaborate with and learn from 
academic, policy makers, and industry 
leaders so that we fearlessly pursue 
innovations that have a positive and 
tangible impact for our society. 
We will build and enhance valuable 
relationships with our alumni, recognising 
the significant role they play as a link to 
the ever-changing workforce and as  
UOW ambassadors.CHANGE THAT MATTERS
Career ready graduates will be assured 
through the ongoing transformation of 
our curriculum, ensuring it meets the 
changing needs of our students and 
industry partners. 
We will create and use new and 
transformational technologies that enrich 
the learning and working environments of 
all our students and campuses. 
We will boldly tackle the health, social and 
environmental challenges of our time by 
focusing on purposeful initiatives  
and innovations. 
We will work collaboratively to embrace 
and drive change to maintain an 
environment that builds on our financial 
sustainability and agility.Our Pillars
Building on our history, 
our 2030 Pillars support 
the University to seize new 
opportunities and continually 
prepare for our future. 
These Pillars reflect the 
distinctive nature of the 
University as a leading 
international civic university. 
Strategic Plan 2020–20254
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 5
WE WILL: 
 1.1  Continue to transform our course 
portfolio to ensure future graduate 
success. We will deepen and broaden 
work-integrated learning, digital learning, 
and entrepreneurship opportunities 
for our students. We will produce 
transdisciplinary T-shaped graduates 
able to succeed in a future of work 
characterised by portfolio careers. We 
will continually innovate our portfolio of 
offerings, and introduce microcredentials, 
to support lifelong learning. 
 1.2  Engage students as trusted partners 
with a shared responsibility for their 
educational journey. We will empower our 
diverse student body to co-design their 
educational experience, enhancing their 
voice in decision-making bodies and the 
services and programs offered to support 
their success. 
 1.3  Develop our students as global 
citizens through enhanced opportunities 
for international student mobility and 
digitally enabled cross-campus learning 
collaboration. We will mainstream global 
outlooks across our portfolio of courses 
and develop a framework for international 
work integrated learning.  1.4  Leverage sophisticated learning 
analytics and artificial intelligence to 
provide sector-leading personalised 
support for our students. We will develop 
a single view of student data, which will be 
used in an ethical and transparent manner 
to support success and empower students 
on their learning journey. 
 1.5  Promote and reward teaching 
excellence. We will support ongoing 
staff development through proactive 
communities of practice and enhance 
career progression opportunities for 
teaching excellent academics. Em powe ring
students for
their futureRenowned for innovative 
educational experiences 
that prepare students for 
the future of work.Goal 1.
Strategic Plan 2020–2025
6
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 7
Goal 2.
WE WILL: 
 2.1  Invest in outstanding researchers 
drawn from a wide range of 
demographics, career level and 
disciplines. We celebrate this diversity as a 
strength and are values-driven in all of our 
endeavours. 
 2.2  Champion high-performing teams 
to tackle complex problems and global 
challenges. We will support innovative 
and impactful outcomes which cross 
conventional discipline and organisational 
boundaries.
 2.3  Sustain best practice graduate 
research training. We will ensure new 
generations are pre-skilled for careers 
requiring knowledge, ideas generation 
and evidence-based decision making.  2.4  Continue our focus on research 
quality, engagement and impact. We 
will undertake research which generates 
prosperity for society, the economy and 
environment and continue to rise in 
international ranking tables.
 2.5  Leverage Industry 4.0 to transform 
how we deliver, curate, analyse and track 
our research, innovation, and impact. In 
a rapidly changing world, we will offer 
opportunities to staff, students and 
stakeholders to build their skills and shape 
their futures. Creating
knowledge 
better worldGlobally recognised for 
delivering impactful 
research that drives 
positive change.  
for a
Strategic Plan 2020–20258
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 9
Goal 3.
WE WILL: 
 3.1  Promote safe, respectful and socially 
inclusive communities where our 
common commitment to equity, diversity, 
reconciliation and human dignity is lived 
by all. 
 3.2  Enhance our civic and social role by 
showcasing a wide range of benefits to 
our communities through the adoption 
of best practice in knowledge exchange. 
We will share ideas, research, skills and 
expertise with our partners and all our 
communities. 
 3.3  Partner with organisations and 
individuals on shared social purposes 
through philanthropy and investment to 
create transformative change.  3.4  Partner with community and industry, 
especially emerging, start-up and global 
businesses operating in all the regions in 
which we have campuses to create new 
jobs, job opportunities for our graduates, 
and assist industry in improving practice.
 3.5  Embrace the circular economy and 
initiatives which promote environmental 
sustainability. We will maximise the 
environmental and fiscal efficiency of 
our assets, optimise the performance of 
our systems and transition from product-
centric delivery models to service-centric 
models. Making a
difference 
communitiesLeveraging our unique 
regional perspective 
and transformative 
capabilities in the 
interests of society.  
for our
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 10
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 11
We will achieve the 
strategic objectives we have 
outlined in this Strategic 
Plan and our 2030 and 
Beyond: A Purposeful 
Future by pursuing 
three interconnected 
institutional priorities. DIGITALISATION 
Our digitalisation priority will see us 
pursue projects and redesign processes to 
enhance our digital capacity and teaching, 
learning and research practices. 
WE WILL REALISE THIS PRIORITY THROUGH 
INITIATIVES SUCH AS:
– Artificial Intelligence: embracing 
automation and machine learning as 
ways to support our students and staff 
and deliver integrated personalised 
service.   
– Big data: developing our capabilities in 
data science, data analytics and decision 
analysis with a focus on translation and 
impact. 
– UOW Online: expanding our online 
and microcredential course offerings, 
offering students a flexible and engaging 
learning experience. Transformative 
Priorities 
 GROWTH 
Our growth priority will see us continue to 
focus on the opportunities to differentiate 
our offerings and research to ensure our 
long-term financial sustainability. 
WE WILL REALISE THIS PRIORITY THROUGH 
INITIATIVES SUCH AS:
– Curriculum Portfolio Innovation: 
reviewing and rebuilding our academic 
course offering to ensure it is responsive 
and aligned to future students and future 
workforce needs. 
– Metropolitan Campuses: expanding 
our existing Sydney campuses thus 
increasing opportunities for access to 
high-quality university courses and 
research. 
– Offshore Campuses: leveraging the 
opportunity of our growing global 
footprint to enhance our offshore course 
offerings to deliver a truly connected 
global student experience.  COLLABORATION 
Our collaborations priority will see us 
increase our strategic engagement 
with our industry partners, peers and 
communities to help address wicked 
problems that have impact for individuals 
and our world.  
WE WILL REALISE THIS PRIORITY THROUGH 
INITIATIVES SUCH AS:
– Professional Development: expanding 
our existing UOWx program to offer 
lifelong access to a range of professional 
development opportunities to our 
alumni. 
– Health and Wellbeing: leveraging our 
expertise in medical research, research 
application, education and focus on high 
impact science, to address major local 
and global health challenges. 
– Strategic Partnerships:  harnessing and 
growing our relationships with leading 
global institutions, through avenues 
such as the NUW Alliance and UGPN, to 
improve the standing and work of our 
University. 
Strategic Plan 2020–202512
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 13
 PEOPLE 
Our students, academic and professional 
services staff drive our success and 
create our impact. As we move towards a 
purposeful future, our people recognise 
the imperatives for change and lead the 
way for our transformation. 
Our workforce management strategies 
will attract and retain the best talent and 
continuously develop our people to create 
the re-imagined workforce of the future. 
We will value and recognise innovation, 
entrepreneurship, resilience, and 
the initiative to develop meaningful 
partnerships. We will invest in our people 
to provide them with the best tools to 
develop and expand their leadership  
and skills. 
Our people will confidently embrace 
technology to drive change. As an agile 
and responsive community, we will blur 
the distinctions between students and 
staff and unify our professional and 
academic structures. 
We will enhance channels of 
communication to ensure that students 
and staff are informed and engaged, 
and that support to them is efficient and 
timely. Our staff will actively seek and 
participate in industry networks and 
global mobility opportunities. CULTURE 
Our culture will be characterised 
by excellence, collaboration, agility, 
nimbleness, and responsiveness to the 
market. Supported by flexible systems and 
processes we focus our efforts on creating 
positive change. 
As we adapt quickly, we will remain 
grounded in our institutional values, and 
we will continue to champion inclusion, 
diversity, and gender equity to create a 
welcoming environment for everyone. 
We will continually strengthen and adapt 
our governance structures to ensure we 
thrive while upholding the strongest 
principles of integrity, accountability and 
transparency.Strategic 
Enablers
 INFRASTRUCTURE 
Our globally networked learning and 
research experience will be enabled 
by state-of-the-art physical and digital 
infrastructure.  
Our physical and virtual presence will 
create a deep sense of belonging to 
UOW and demonstrate contemporary 
practices in safety and accessibility. Our 
commitment to realising the vision of 
our campus masterplans will provide 
smart, environmentally sustainable 
and purposeful facilities that enhance 
workplace productivity and the university 
experience. 
We will embrace user-centred design, 
automation and artificial intelligence, 
so our people are able to focus on 
meaningful and rewarding work. We 
will be at the forefront of advanced 
technologies, embedding them into our 
research and learning. FINANCE 
Our focus on best practice resource 
management and diversifying of revenue 
streams will support our ongoing  
financial viability. 
We will inform and resource our student 
recruitment practices on the basis of 
market insights and evidence to optimise 
our enrolment and retention outcomes. 
We will continue to embed effective 
planning and reporting practices, 
ensuring transparency and optimal 
allocation of resources. Our funding and 
financial models will evolve to match rapid 
changes in our research and education. 
We will focus our investments and 
redirect resources from under-performing 
to promising programs. We will grow 
and diversify our research revenue by 
creating global funding partnerships and 
facilitating commercialisation.Our vision for the future is  
underpinned by four Strategic Enablers. 
These enablers are critical  
to achieving our ambitions.
Strategic Plan 2020–2025
14
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 15
The Framework activates UOW’s strategic 
direction via a clearly articulated planning 
and accountability structure that 
integrates with and is applied to all levels 
of Planning and Reporting at UOW. A set 
of cascading performance indicators and 
annual reporting assures the University’s governing body that the University is 
making progress towards its strategic 
ambitions. 
The Framework supports UOW’s strong 
governance and quality framework and 
commitment to the Plan-Act-Review-
Improve cycle.Realising 
our StrategyAPPROVAL AND REPORTING VIA COUNCIL ULGInspiring a better future through education, research and partnership
TRUST BUILT THROUGH 
PARTNERSHIPSCHANGE THAT MATTERS2030 & BEYOND VISION
LOCAL ACTION PLANS & WORKPLANSANNUAL PLANS
Portfolios / divisions & faculties / schoolsEXTERNALLY ASSESSED PLANS
(eg. Reconciliation Action Plan)UNIVERSITY THEMATIC STRATEGIES
Five year periodROADMAP 2023-2025
A two year tactical planDIVERSITY RECOGNITION EMPOWERMENT12 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORSALIGNMENTGOAL 2
Creating knowledge  
for a better worldGOAL 3
Making a difference  
for our communitiesSTRATEGIC PLAN 2020–20253 PILLARS
5 VALUES
3 GOALS
3 TRANSFORMATIVE 
PRIORITIES
4 ENABLERS
5 DOMAINS
15 PRIORITIESGLOBAL OUTLOOK
OPENNESS EXCELLENCE
GOAL 1
Empowering students  
for their futureOur integrated Planning and Reporting Framework ensures 
all aspects of our organisation are aligned to our Strategy. 
Strategic Plan 2020–2025
16
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 17
The University of Wollongong attempts to ensure the information contained in this publication is correct at the time of production 
(February 2023); however, sections may be amended without notice by the University in response to changing circumstances or for 
any other reason. Check with the University for any updated information.uow.edu.au
facebook.com/uow
instagram.com/uow
1300 367 869
For more information contact:  
strategic-planning@uow.edu.au
