
STRATEGIC  
PLAN  
2018 | 2024
To educate, discover  
and innovate to impact  
on a rapidly canging society.

INDEX INTRODUCTION BY THE RECTOR  5
THE STARTING POINT: OUR CONTEXT  9
/ OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS, STRENGTHS  
 AND WEAKNESSES OUTSIDE AND INSIDE POLITECNICO  12
VALUES AND VISION  15
/ OUR VALUES  15
/ OUR VISION AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION  16
/ ANNEX TO SECTION 2 – ABSTRACT OF THE STATUTE  
 OF POLITECNICO DI TORINO  19
EDUCATION  21
/ THE DEMAND FOR EDUCATION  22
/ CONSTRAINTS  24
/ LEARNING CONTENTS AND PEDAGOGY  25
/ A LIFELONG LEARNING EXPERIENCE  28
/ GOVERNANCE  30
RESEARCH  33
/ THE NEW CHALLENGES OF RESEARCH  34
/ THE VARIOUS FORMS OF RESEARCH  35
/ LEVELS, ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE OF RESEARCH  38
THE “THIRD MISSION”:  
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER  
AND KNOWLEDGE SHARING  45
/ THE “THIRD MISSION” OVER TIME  46
/ THE VARIOUS FIELDS OF TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER  48
/ TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER MODELS  50
/ CULTURE AND COMMUNICATION  50
WHICK KIND OF UNIVERSITY?  53
/ OUR ACADEMIC COMMUNITY  54
/ STAFF POLICIES  56
/ ORGANISATION  57
/ GOVERNANCE  58
/ A NEW CULTURE OF QUALITY  60
/ SUSTAINABILITY AT OUR UNIVERSITY  60
/ TOWARDS A DIGITAL UNIVERSITY  61
/ THE MASTERPLAN  61
OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS  63
/ FIRST MISSION: EDUCATION  64
/ SECOND MISSION: RESEARCH  67
/ THIRD MISSION: TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND KNOWLEDGE SHARING  69
/ STAFF POLICIES  71
PRINCIPAL BIBLIOGRAPHY AND WEBLIOGRAPHY  72

INTRODUCTION  
BY THE RECTOR 

6 7Just a few months after my appointment as Rector of Politecnico 
di Torino, I would like to share with you the new institutional Strategic 
Plan “PoliTO 4 Impact” . This Plan will guide the actions of the whole 
Politecnico community until 2024, the end of my mandate,  
and provide a farsighted vision of the period that will follow.
Strategy can be developed with a range of methods,  
with extremes at each end. 
On one hand, the traditional approach sees strategy as “planning” ,  
to be implemented typically through a top-down and deductive 
process, focused on “what to do” . This approach is suitable 
for stable contexts and hierarchical organizations.
On the other hand, for several years, a new approach has been 
emerging, where strategy is characterized as an “emergent” 
phenomenon. Here, a bottom-up process is adopted by following 
inductive reasoning and focusing on “what to be” .  
This approach fits non-hierarchical organizations, especially 
if they operate in uncertain and volatile contexts.  
It is based on specific organizational paradigms,  
extensive use of networks and team working and the continuous 
experimentation and evolution of processes and activities. 
In the development of this Strategic Plan the “emergent” model 
was our natural choice not only due to the complex political,  
economic and social context that we are experiencing nowadays,  
but also in the full awareness of the collegial nature 
that characterizes what a university is and does. 
These reflections have led to specific methodological choices 
within the process of structuring this Strategic Plan,  
and consequently, to clear effects on its contents.
From a methodological point of view, the process has been widely 
participated and both local stakeholders and members 
of the academic community have been actively involved.  
In particular, the process has been organized as follows:  
I) three workshops open to representatives of public bodies,  
economic institutions and civil society; II) six thematic workshops 
for those with roles of responsibility in our University 
(Deputy Rector, Director-General, members of the Board of Governors 
and of the Academic Senate, Vice Rectors, Delegates,  
Advisors, Executives, etc.); III) four workshops open 
to the whole academic community.  
In total, about 700 people participated in these workshops.⁄ INTRODUCTION 
BY THE RECTOR 
Coming to contents, the Strategic Plan is founded 
around four themes. 
The theme of the “Impact” of universities’ actions on society is so 
central that it has been chosen as the title of the Strategic Plan itself. 
This is because a technical university such as Politecnico di Torino 
must address the needs of the local territory and of the whole nation, 
in accordance with the policies and strategies currently adopted 
by the best technical universities internationally.  
The unifying objective that will drive my term of office as Rector 
therefore is to use the three university missions to make 
an important impact on a society which is undergoing change. 
The plurality of forms through which this impact is expressed 
necessarily leads to affirm each of the three university missions 
and their different expressions. The three missions require 
a harmonious and synergic balance and the adoption of new 
and effective tools. These include: experience-based 
and project-based education where teaching staff can nurture 
critical thinking in students; interdisciplinary research to create 
new technologies, products and processes; the creation 
of vertical value chains for technology transfer which involve 
a synergy of multiple actors.
Similarly, the Strategic Plan does not aim to identify specific 
disciplinary and sectorial priorities. This does not stem from 
an unwillingness to take decisions, but from the awareness 
that these decisions are to be made in a rigorous and structured way 
within a context that is continuously evolving, both in the short 
and in the long term, according to the frames of reference defined 
in the Plan itself. 
Finally, the Strategic Plan affirms the nature of the University 
as an academic community and opens up to interaction 
and cross-pollination with the various actors in society,  
both at a local and at an international level.  
The University therefore assumes the role of an enabling 
platform, which the various members of an extended academic 
community can use to act and interact with each other,  
making an effective contribution to the mission of creating 
and sharing knowledge. 
Strategic Plans often risk becoming a sterile and ineffective rhetorical 
exercise. This will not happen here. “PoliTO 4 Impact” will be concretely 
implemented in an Action Plan, structured into specific objectives,  
and subject to periodical assessments. The final section 
of this Strategic Plan presents a compendium of strategic objectives 
and enabling tools that constitute the starting point 
of the Action Plan. Furthermore, a new phase will begin after the 
presentation of the Strategic Plan: all Departments of our University 
will be asked to draft their own Strategic Plan, by adapting the 
objectives included in the Strategic Plan of our University 
to the specific needs and characteristics of each Department. 
I am grateful for the professional contribution and dedicated 
participation of all those who took part in the drafting of this 
Strategic Plan at various levels. I hope that the great interest 
expressed in these months by all the members of our University 
will continue to increase, when the time comes to implement it.
Now is the moment for us to look ahead to all our challenges 
and opportunities together, relying on our competence, enthusiasm 
and mutual trust, so that Politecnico di Torino will become one 
of the leading creators of a better future for our society.
I wish you all the best in this aim.
Sincerely yours,
Guido Saracco
Rector  
of Politecnico di TorinoSTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

8 9
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
THE  
STARTING 
POINT:  
OUR CONTEXT
/ OPPORTUNITIES 
AND THREATS, 
STRENGTHS  
AND WEAKNESSES 
OUTSIDE AND INSIDE 
POLITECNICO

10 11
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024The Strategic Plan “PoliTO 4 Impact” has been 
developed in extremely volatile and uncertain times, 
which present potentially disruptive opportunities 
and are very hard to interpret.
The political, economic and social context 
is no longer that of the past decades,  
which were relatively stable and marked 
by a growing globalization.
Technology represents the pillar of our University’s 
action and is now experiencing such a tumultuous 
and complex development in many fields 
that is hard to follow even for academics.  
Technology has become a crucial element 
in influencing political, economic and social 
processes. Technology may become either a driving 
force towards new paradigms of virtuous 
and sustainable development or a negative 
element leading to an even more uncertain future: 
it depends on how it is governed. We cannot neglect 
the potential effects of an inappropriate use 
of technology. These include the impact 
of information technology on privacy and 
human rights, ethical consequences of Artificial 
Intelligence or unemployment arising from 
technological displacement due to automation. 
Specifically, new technologies will have also 
a significant impact on universities in terms 
of multidisciplinarity, innovation in education 
and lifelong learning. 
Aware of the importance of the current 
processes of technological and social change, 
Politecnico di Torino feels duty-bound to take 
up its own responsibilities, by promoting a wide 
vision of technology, taking into consideration 
a careful evaluation of the potential impact 
at economic, social, political 
and environmental levels and aiming to foster 
a sustainable development.
Politecnico di Torino, following the evolution 
of mechanisms of knowledge creation 
and sharing recognizes that its role cannot 
be limited to promote and support innovative 
processes in society, but has to improve 
its own capacity for internal innovation 
and change.
At an economic and social level, the rapid growth 
of countries once defined as “emerging”  
and the internal imbalances of Western economies 
generate significant social tensions.  
In addition, fears related to the possible 
consequences of mismanaged technological 
development are leading to diminishing trust 
not only in science and technology,  
but also in the concept of “competence” itself.  
At the same time, there is a growing demand in 
university education worldwide, for both traditional 
degrees and lifelong learning, especially 
in technical disciplines. These disciplines must be 
oriented towards a virtuous development of society 
as a whole. These uncertainties also have an impact 
at political level; in this regard, we can observe 
a growing skepticism towards the international 
openness that characterized the last part 
of the 20th century and even towards the 
cornerstones which underpin liberal democracy.
Politecnico di Torino has its roots 
in the historical period when Italy became 
a modern democracy and, since the very 
beginning, it has played a central role 
in the social and economic progress 
of the local community, while at the same time 
promoting an open international approach.  
Therefore, our University feels 
the responsibility of continuing to guarantee 
these founding values, by assuming 
the duty of interpreting and promoting them 
in the contemporary context.
Inevitably, Italy is deeply involved in these 
transformations and has to tackle them from 
a particularly difficult situation. Its social 
and economic bases are being undermined 
by severe demographic decline, an educational 
attainment level lower than the European average, 
an imbalance between emigration and immigration 
of young graduates, sluggish productivity growth 
in different economic sectors, and significant 
and enduring disparities within society and among 
territories. At the same time, in this unprecedented 
and complex evolving context, the economic levers 
available to the State are constrained 
by the accumulated public debt. This has been used 
as a reason to explain the significant reduction 
in funding for culture and education and,  
in particular, for universities and their principal 
missions. In this time of crisis, there is less 
investment than before in new generations,  
a crucial value for any country’s development. While Politecnico di Torino points 
to the need for more public investment 
in research, education and the “third mission” , 
it recognizes its responsibility to commit 
to supporting Italian society, its economy 
and policy-making process through 
its own competences and activities.  
This in order to contribute to reverse 
the current static situation and to foster 
the development of this country’s significant 
and acknowledged potential.
Nowadays, Piemonte and Torino in particular,  
are among the areas which have suffered the most 
from the difficult situation described above.  
In the 20th century, Piemonte was one 
of the vertices of the Italian “industrial triangle” ,  
but is now marginalized and considered “behind” 
other more dynamic regions. Torino is becoming 
a real university city, with a great capacity 
to attract students from other regions.  
However, it does not offer the kind of opportunities 
which encourage graduates to choose Torino 
to remain and start their professional lives. 
Alarming data are emerging at both economic 
and demographic level. The industrial base 
of the territory must be regenerated, starting from 
extant competences and competitive factors.  
This will compensate for the partial disengagement 
from the territory by a number of large companies, 
the still weak presence of medium-to-large 
enterprises and the fragmentation of the many 
SMEs. Politecnico di Torino can play a significant 
role in this field by contributing to the local system 
of innovation and technology transfer,  
to the creation of new businesses,  
to the sharing of knowledge with society to prepare 
it for the current rapid pace of change.  
At the same time, future developments 
of Politecnico di Torino will have a strong impact 
on the urban tissue and its population,  
thanks to the important new building plans,  
the impact of its academic community 
and the valuable industries who settle in the area 
to work in partnership with our University.
Since its foundation, Politecnico di Torino 
has had a central role in developing 
the various economic sectors in Piemonte. 
Today, it engages to renew its commitment 
towards its own territory, in order to contribute 
to its regeneration at economic, social, 
urban and environmental level. Through new 
approaches and activities related 
to the University’s missions, Politecnico aims 
to promote a sound vision, which will activate 
a critical mass of intents and actions, together 
with local political, social and economic actors.THE STARTING POINT: OUR CONTEXT

12 13
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024THE STARTING POINT: OUR CONTEXT
/ OPPORTUNITIES  
AND THREATS, 
STRENGTHS  
AND WEAKNESSES 
OUTSIDE AND INSIDE 
POLITECNICO
This Strategic Plan has been drafted by Politecnico 
di Torino within a context of “crisis” , using the word’s 
etymological meaning of “break point” or “decision” .
Some of the above-mentioned elements describe 
an unusual scenario which is hard to understand 
and can be interpreted as both an opportunity 
and a threat, depending on different points 
of view and on the ways in which these elements 
are managed.
This ambivalence can be found in particular 
with respect to the situation of the Torino area,  
where the economic and demographic decline 
represents a serious threat, but whose potential 
can however be exploited as an exceptional chance 
for recovery and as a solid opportunity of growth 
for our University. Politecnico di Torino is well aware 
that the difference between threat and opportunity 
depends also on its level of commitment 
to local recovery, on the national scene 
and in an international perspective.Politecnico di Torino identifies other interesting 
opportunities:
an array of research and innovation 
perspectives deriving from emerging 
technological trajectories, and the opportunity 
of contributing – together with the actors 
who work in the field of technology transfer 
and finance – to the development 
of new virtuous and sustainable paradigms, 
which may pave the way for a real 
and positive impact on society;
innovation in pedagogical practices that may 
have an impact on both the initial phases 
of education of young students and lifelong 
learning. The objective will be to help our 
students develop the professional skills 
which are required to manage the complexity 
of technology and to meet the needs 
of the different economic sectors;
the opportunity of sharing knowledge 
with society as a whole, by exploring new 
channels and models, also through a better 
engagement of our alumni community 
at various levels;
a further development of our activities 
at international level, by strengthening 
existing networks in the fields of education, 
research and technology transfer,  
and by identifying privileged partners 
from Western countries, as well as from 
countries of growing strategic importance.
At the same time, these opportunities 
are counterbalanced by some threats, such as:
the potential effect of social and political 
processes, which may bring about significant 
consequences for the university sector 
at both national and global level;  
a growing competition with international 
universities which enjoy better funding 
conditions, operate under more favourable 
regulatory frameworks and incentive systems. 
Politecnico di Torino recognizes the following 
internal strengths:
the well-known value and commitment 
of the members of its academic community 
and the quality of their activities,  
for the achievement of the three 
university’s missions;
a significant relational capital with other 
universities and companies in Italy 
and abroad; 
a sound financial and budgetary position, 
which is based on its good self-funding 
capability.At the same time, Politecnico di Torino identifies 
some weaknesses which require action, such as:
a very high ratio between the number 
of students and faculty members.  
Politecnico is willing to tackle this problem 
without undermining the intake of students, 
and intends to keep improving the quality 
of education;
the complexity and rigidity 
of the decision-making and operational 
processes. This is mainly due 
to the Italian laws that govern the public 
sector, without taking into account 
the specificity of universities and of their 
international competitive dynamics;
an excessive focus on routine activities, which 
is partly due to administrative 
and bureaucratic burdens. 
In this analysis, we can identify some aspects 
that place Politecnico di Torino “on a ridge”  
and that can be seen as both strengths 
and weaknesses, depending on how 
they are interpreted. In particular: 
the traditional commitment of the members 
of our academic community shows signs 
of suffering from a sense of weariness 
and growing individualism. This could be 
caused by difficult work conditions 
and distortions produced by the current 
assessment systems;
the high-level reputation of Politecnico 
in academic, industrial and social contexts 
needs to be strengthened, by focusing 
on a stronger communication strategy.
Many of these critical aspects and opportunities 
are common to all technical universities 
all over the world, despite the different contexts 
in which they act. In particular, the issue of “impact” 
has become crucial: universities aim to be catalysts 
for effective innovation, economic development 
and social prosperity. They also need to maximize 
the effectiveness of their most obvious 
and natural goal, i.e. the education 
of new generations. “Impact” requires the ability 
to reflect and act with a farsighted and 
international perspective and - at the same time 
- it calls for the ability of working efficiently 
at local level. In a similar way, impact requires 
harmonious action on all three university missions, 
by taking into account their mutual interactions.
Politecnico di Torino will face this challenge 
by leveraging on its most valuable resource,  
namely the people who belong to our academic 
community, with their capability to work together 
and at their best for the development 
of our University and for the progress 
of our society as a whole.

14 15
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
VALUES 
AND VISION
/ OUR VALUES
/ OUR VISION  
AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION

16 17VALUES AND VISION
/ OUR VALUES
/ OUR VISION AND 
ITS IMPLEMENTATIONWe are aware that Politecnico di Torino 
needs to play an active role to conceive 
and develop its future. This is true especially 
for technical universities, which pursue 
the goal of contributing to the socio-economic 
development of their territories and countries.  
To this end, universities educate competent 
and responsible professionals, contribute 
to the growth of knowledge and innovation, 
disseminate their research results to the 
production system and share the culture 
they have generated with society as a whole.
Politecnico di Torino intends to reaffirm the guiding 
principles set forth in Article 3 of its Statute 
(see Annex to this section). 
These principles are reflected in a system of values, 
which summarize the vision, and the intents 
of the whole academic community.  
These principles are stable references 
that orient the University’s future strategic 
and operative choices. 
In particular, Politecnico di Torino intends 
to assert a set of values inherited from the previous 
generations who built the history of this University 
over the past 160 years, and which shape 
the experience of the present:
its role of public University which serves our 
country with an open, inclusive, democratic 
and liberal approach;
its constant commitment to working with 
rigour and integrity, not as an end in itself, 
but aiming to achieving tangible ad effective 
results in all fields of action;
its openness to cooperate with other 
universities, society, the world of business 
and the institutions at local and international 
level, always with a strong motivation towards 
integration and inclusion.
As for any other kind of heritage, it is crucial 
to keep enriching it with new values,  
which can support our actions in this new historical 
scenario. On this basis, Politecnico di Torino 
is going to embrace the following values:
a farsighted perspective towards the future: 
every single action should be oriented to 
improve the quality of life both at local and 
global level, reduce inequalities, build social 
responsibility towards future generations with 
an eye to social, economic and technological 
sustainable development;
spirit of initiative to play an effective role 
in supporting and fostering such 
a broad perspective of development. In the recent past there has been an important 
debate concerning the role of universities in modern 
society both in Italy and abroad. New issues 
are being discussed in different countries 
in relation to their university systems.  
They include the “new missions” , the social function 
of universities in the process of knowledge creation 
and dissemination, as well as the relationships 
between faculty members and students.  
This debate has led to a variety of projects 
and reforms, which in many cases have been 
accompanied by tensions.
In Italy, the debate has been especially influenced 
by new assessment processes and incentive 
systems which were almost absent in the past. 
Nevertheless, these systems risk to lead to a very 
partial and constraining vision of the academic 
activity and to reduce it to a mere “factory”  
of students and research products.
Politecnico di Torino reaffirms its institutional aims, 
established in Article 2 of the Statute 
(see Annex to this section). Bearing in mind this 
and a changing and turbulent context,  
Politecnico di Torino embraces the vision of:
an academic community committed 
to generating and sharing “polytechnical 
knowledge” for effective and sustainable 
development of society at global,  
national and international level.This vision can be structured in details 
in four main pillars: 
Being an academic community implies:
valorising people, as faculty members, 
technicians, librarians, administrative staff 
and students, who all commit themselves 
to working individually and collectively 
in a rigorous way; fostering the development 
of diverse and constant interactions 
among the members of the community.
Being an academic community also implies:
encouraging a growing openness towards 
the interaction with other communities 
and organizations: Italian and foreign 
universities and research centres,  
the alumni community, firms from any industry 
sector and size, spin-offs and start-ups, 
public and private institutions,  
as well as the various components 
of the civil society.
Putting the generation and sharing of “polytechnical 
knowledge” at the heart of our policies implies:
being committed to working in a complex 
cultural scenario which is nurtured 
by scientific, engineering, architecture, 
planning and design disciplines.  
These need to be blended together 
and combined with human and social 
sciences, so to lead to the design of systemic 
solutions, which may pave the way 
for effective and virtuous development 
at political, economic,  
social and environmental level.
Generating and sharing “polytechnical knowledge” 
also implies:
assuring and improving the effectiveness 
of the processes that enable education, 
research and third mission activities.  
These processes need to be adapted 
to the current rapid pace of change,  
both when they happen inside 
and outside the University, in partnership 
with other actors.

VALUES AND VISION
18
 19ART. 2 - INSTITUTIONAL AIMS 
Politecnico is a 
research-led university whose 
primary objectives are 
the enhancement 
of technological and scientific 
research capabilities and their 
integration into a higher education 
framework. Its activities 
are rooted in the production, 
attraction, conservation, 
development and transfer 
of knowledge in the fields 
of architecture, engineering 
and other polytechnic sciences. 
Its role extends to enhancing 
the development of society 
through the transfer of technology 
and services to the community.
Politecnico undertakes 
fundamental and applied 
research; it co-ordinates 
and develops research projects, 
both at an international 
and national level; it encourages 
the acquisition of the most 
advanced scientific and technical 
knowledge and enhances 
the expertise existing within 
Politecnico itself and the specific 
research skills required 
in different scientific fields;  
it actively searches for 
and supports strategic research 
sectors and the development 
of interdisciplinary activities.
Politecnico provides 
courses at all university levels; 
it defines the characteristics, 
delivery and contents 
of its degree programmes;  
it aims to consolidate and 
enhance its education system 
through innovative teaching 
models; it also develops 
and implements programs 
and projects at advanced levels, 
as well as for lifelong learning and 
professional development;  
it rewards students on the basis 
of merit criteria.Politecnico provides career 
guidance for students, a service 
which aims to facilitate their 
integration into the professional 
workplace and it also monitors 
students’ specific career progress; 
it promotes initiatives which 
create professional employment; 
it creates opportunities 
to maintain cultural and individual 
links among Alumni.
Politecnico considers 
the expertise of its personnel 
to be an asset and invests 
in human resources by promoting 
staff development, reward 
and quality. Politecnico value 
 the abilities, professional 
experience, skills and effort 
of its personnel and it promotes 
initiatives which encourage 
the commitment 
and empowerment of staff.
Politecnico di Torino places 
great importance on its 
international dimension 
and supports this with joint 
actions with other foreign 
universities, research institutions 
and enterprises; it promotes 
and supports the international 
mobility of students, professors 
and researchers; it promotes 
alliances with other actors aimed 
at participation in international 
projects in education 
and research, by activating,  
when necessary, specific 
structures and joint degree 
programmes.
Politecnico is committed 
to technology transfer 
of innovations and knowledge 
to the economic and productive 
system, as well as to practitioners 
in specific sectors.
Politecnico contributes, 
through its teaching and research, 
to a development process 
based on the principles of social 
cohesion and sustainability, 
also from an environmental 
perspective. In particular 
it promotes cooperation among 
institutions in order to encourage 
growth in the cultural, scientific 
and professional community.ART. 3 - GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
1. Politecnico,  
as a community, works in mutual 
agreement with students 
and personnel. It considers 
the respect for fundamental 
human rights and freedom 
of thought, research and teaching 
to be of primary importance.
2. Politecnico promotes 
quality in research, teaching 
and administrative activities.
3. Politecnico encourages 
discussion and debate on topics 
related to the achievement 
of its institutional goals.  
It guarantees participation 
in the Governing Bodies 
to all personnel and students;  
it assures transparency 
and communication within 
the University as well as 
with the public.
4. Politecnico promotes 
the effectiveness 
and efficiency of technical 
and administrative activities 
toward the achievement  
of its institutional goals  
and it utilizes the appropriate 
means for management, 
evaluation and rewarding.
5. Politecnico assures 
equal opportunities, including 
gender equal opportunity,  
in every aspects of the academic 
life and it operates to sensitize 
the academic community 
to a common awareness 
of the issue.
6. Politecnico adopts 
the Code of Ethical Conduct 
of the University Community, 
shared with the other 
Universities in Piemonte. 
Title V of the present Statute 
establishes the penalties 
for violations of the Code 
of Ethical Conduct.
7.  Politecnico protects its 
own bibliographic, documentary 
and museum heritage. It ensures 
proper storage of documents 
and supplies the instruments, 
which guarantee consultation 
and reliability in both a traditional 
and a digital environment.ANNEX  
TO SECTION 2  
/ ABSTRACT 
OF THE STATUTE  
OF POLITECNICO  
DI TORINOSTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

20 21
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
EDUCATION
/ THE DEMAND  
FOR EDUCATION
/ CONSTRAINTS
/ LEARNING 
CONTENTS  
AND PEDAGOGY 
/ A LIFELONG 
LEARNING 
EXPERIENCE
/ GOVERNANCE

22 23EDUCATION
/ THE DEMAND  
FOR EDUCATION
Politecnico di Torino’s strategy for education starts 
from an analysis of the complex evolution 
of the demand for education in the specific fields 
in which our University is involved.
There is a very negative demographic trend in Italy, 
and Piemonte seems to be particularly affected 
by this phenomenon. Population projections 
suggest that the number of high school graduates 
will suffer from a significant decline after 2024.  
This fact is even more alarming if we consider 
the low percentage of young students who enrol 
in Italian universities compared to other countries. 
This gap is not closing fast enough and Italy ranks 
in the last positions of the OECD rankings 
for educational attainment. Among the possible 
causes of this phenomenon, there are the lack 
of Bachelor’s degree programmes that provide 
professional skills, the weakness of the policies 
which support higher education, the low demand 
for university graduates from Italian firms,  
which leads to high youth unemployment rates. 
These trends undermine the future of our country, 
especially in a scenario where the competiveness 
of nations and territories depends more and more 
on the knowledge and competences 
that they are able to create.
However, some factors go against this trend 
and allow Politecnico di Torino to have 
an optimistic stance on the future.
First of all, the number of young people who enrol 
in Engineering programmes is growing at a national 
level, while the number of students enrolled 
in Architecture is quite stable (Architecture intake 
in Italy is capped to a fixed number of students). 
This trend especially stems from the stronger 
employability of graduates who attain engineering 
degrees. We can view this fact with satisfaction,  
but at the same time, we are concerned that 
students not receiving an appropriate orientation 
could end up choosing these studies without having 
an adequate aptitude.
Secondly, there is a growing percentage of young 
students who choose to move from other Italian 
regions in search of high-quality education,  
thanks to the strong reputation of Politecnico di Torino. 
This internal migration takes place for both 
Bachelor’s and, even more, for Master’s degree 
programmes. Politecnico di Torino wishes that 
future reforms of the Italian university system may 
lead to higher investments and foster a balanced 
growth for all universities throughout the country. 
In the meanwhile, always taking its structural and 
financial resources into account, Politecnico 
di Torino is going to keep admitting as many qualified 
applicants as possible. Our University aims to offer 
up-to-date educational programmes and train 
young professionals who may have a significant 
impact also on their home regions. Through this Strategic Plan, 
Politecnico di Torino aims 
to reaffirm the central role 
of its mission in the field 
of education. Education represents 
a cornerstone of its action 
and the main channel to transfer 
“polytechnical knowledge” ,  
new competences generated 
by research and the know-how 
of those – professionals 
or managers– who are actively part 
of a rapidly moving world of work 
to the benefit of society.Furthermore, there has been a significant reduction 
in the dropout rates of Bachelor’s students.  
Besides reducing the average graduation delay,  
this element leads to a progressive increase 
in the number of high-achieving students 
who enrol in year two or beyond and who are 
likely to move to a Master’s degree programme.
Finally, despite a youth unemployment rate 
of about 35% and a percentage of NEETs 
close to 25%, over one fifth of Italian firms 
cannot find the professionals they need.  
According to recent surveys, nearly 300.000 
highly qualified professionals will be required 
by Italian companies over the next five years to keep 
Italy as the second-highest manufacturing country 
in Europe. The educational offer of Italian Higher 
Technical Institutes (ITS) is currently insufficient, 
with little more than 10.000 students.  
Thanks to a favourable regulatory framework, 
Politecnico di Torino is going to offer a 3-year 
Professional Bachelor’s degree programme 
in the manufacturing sector, in cooperation 
with local ITSs.
On the other hand, there is a growing demand 
for high-quality university education coming 
from “emerging countries” . These international 
students not only are heading towards 
the universities of the traditional Anglo-Saxon 
areas, or the countries that share the same 
language, but also towards Italy.  
Politecnico di Torino intends to pursue a strong 
international recruitment strategy, especially 
for Master’s degree programmes,  
with a thorough assessment 
of the applicants’ educational background.
A further increase in the population of international 
students is going to balance partially the mobility 
of young Italians who decide to study abroad.  
It may also provide significant benefits for national 
students as well as for local businesses.  
In fact, Italian students will enjoy the opportunity 
of studying in a multicultural context.  
Local businesses will be given the opportunity 
to interact with international students 
and even hire them, thus enabling possible 
interactions with their home countries.  
To this end, Politecnico di Torino intends to confirm 
and enrich its “bilingual” course catalogue 
in Italian and English, also by promoting 
international recruitment of faculty members.The recruitment of international students 
will focus on a limited number of strategic 
“Target” Countries. Liaison persons will be identified 
locally in those countries and will contribute 
to high-quality student recruitment.  
At the same time, Politecnico di Torino will renew 
its recruitment efforts also from European 
and Western countries. In this case, we will look 
at those countries where the costs of university 
education has increased more substantially. 
Prospective students will be especially offered 
the degree programmes, which are more appealing 
at an international level, relying on our University’s 
excellence, on the initiatives in innovative 
teaching and experiential learning,  
and on the connections with Italy’s key sectors.
Overall, we assume that the increase 
in the number of students applying for admission 
to Politecnico di Torino will compensate 
for the demographic decline, at least 
up to 2024. However, this Plan recommends 
a careful monitoring of possible future changes.  
We cannot deny that if the national policies 
for the recovery of our economy– to which our 
University is strongly committed – turn out 
to be unsuccessful , we may expect significant 
negative effects also in this context.
Managing this demand for higher education,  
which comes from local, national and international 
contexts, together with the rapid pace 
of technological change, will require strengthening 
our orientation and communication activities. 
In particular, we will work towards the clear 
communication of our programmes’ contents 
and the competences to which they aim.  
Our primary task is to address this communication 
to our prospective students in order to help them 
evaluate their talents and objectives.  
We will also communicate with businesses 
and institutions in a similar way, to make them 
aware of the potential of our graduates 
and promote their employability. Given our intent 
to constantly review our course contents 
and teaching methods, also by interacting 
with the business and professional world 
and with our alumni, these changes will be promptly 
shared with society. This communication strategy 
will therefore promote new contents and teaching 
methods that will be progressively introduced 
in our programmes in order to create 
a student-centred educational model.  
Thanks to this model, students can improve 
their attitude for critical thinking, relational skills 
and awareness of social responsibility;  
this will be pursued also by investing 
in new classrooms and laboratories. 
In addition to specific campaigns,  
we are going to improve our communication 
by providing better access to the contents 
of the ”Portale della Didattica- Teaching Portal web 
area” also for external users.STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

24EDUCATION
/ CONSTRAINTS
The goal of Politecnico di Torino is to continue 
to provide top-level education for a significant 
amount of students. This implies our decision 
not to pursue a model focused on teaching 
to a minority of particularly talented students. 
In fact, this choice would be in contrast with our 
University’s history, with the awareness that our 
country suffers from a significant lack of technical 
graduates and with the sense of responsibility 
towards many “gifted and deserving students”  
who apply for admission to our University,  
in accordance with the Italian Constitution.
Nevertheless, today our University is not able 
to provide teaching services to all the students 
who apply for admission, since there are four 
considerable constraints. Our goal is to intervene 
on these constraints and moderate their effects.
The first constraint is related to the educational 
background of our prospective students.  
To this regard, we are going to develop evaluation 
methodologies which take into consideration 
also students’ motivations and their talent for the 
professions they are about to choose. Furthermore, 
we are going to keep implementing the existing 
support activities that help students with 
difficulties boost their academic progress,  
such as preparatory and remedial courses.  
However, due to the constraints related to our 
current infrastructures and human resources,  
we are currently unable to spread these initiatives 
broadly. Finally, we are going to monitor both 
incoming and outgoing student flows towards other 
national and international universities, by focussing 
not only on the number of the people involved,  
but also on the level of their academic performance.The second constraint is related to the very 
low number of faculty members, which is partially 
due to the turnover threshold currently established 
by Italian law. At present and within the horizon of 
this Strategic Plan, this constraint is going to hinder 
a consistent increase in the number 
of faculty members. With the aim of settling this 
issue, Politecnico di Torino intends to establish 
a dialogue with the Italian Government in order 
to negotiate and adopt appropriate tools to curb 
the negative effects of this turnover policy 
(for instance, the possibility to recruit new faculty 
members using the university own funds, 
extraordinary recruitment plans for researchers, etc.).
Politecnico di Torino will also adopt contracts 
for professorial positions funded by external 
Institutions (see Italian Law n. 240/10, art. 18, par. 3). 
Our University is going to pursue policies that 
allocate resources to support the disciplinary fields 
with an excessive student-to-faculty ratio.  
This will be done, in order to balance demand 
and offer as much as possible. In the meanwhile,  
we are going to work on specific initiatives 
to enhance the disciplinary fields 
that are lacking student demand.
The third constraint is related to our administrative 
services, which are also affected by the standstill 
of the staff turnover. Administrative processes 
and procedures will be revised, simplified 
and digitalised so that the academic progress 
of our students will be managed more effectively 
and increasing support will be offered 
to our faculty members. 
The fourth constraint is due to our infrastructures. 
It is well known that Politecnico di Torino 
has been suffering for a long time from a significant 
lack in infrastructures for teaching.  
Our ongoing Masterplan, which has already been 
approved, aims to rebalance and rationalize spaces, 
by taking into account the student population 
which may raise up to 40,000 students,  
compared to the current 34,000.  
There will be a close coordination between 
the detailed planning of the spaces and the new 
pedagogical formats (laboratories, classrooms 
for project-based courses, spaces equipped 
and dedicated to student teams).  
Innovative teaching formats will require spaces 
that may be converted to different uses 
in the medium term, as well as multifunctional 
areas that may be easily adapted to different 
activities in the short term.
In particular, we are going to focus on making 
available an appropriate number of large 
classrooms for traditional frontal teaching 
(ex-cathedra lectures) and some smaller 
classrooms for laboratory and prototyping activities 
(e.g. student teams), individual and group study. / LEARNING CONTENTS  
AND PEDAGOGY 
Over the past, Politecnico di Torino has developed 
an educational programme based on a sound 
cultural structure and a rigorous and deep analysis 
of the taught disciplines. Thanks to this orientation, 
the employability of our students 
and their professional growth have been 
outstanding. Today, teaching is delivered according 
to a variety of methodologies, including frontal 
teaching, experiential learning (e.g. ateliers, 
workshops, project work, laboratories, etc.) 
and other educational methods (e.g. student teams, 
study visits, etc.). Furthermore, Politecnico di Torino 
is exploring new methodologies, such as flipped 
classrooms, problem-setting/solving activities 
and team-based multidisciplinary projects 
(e.g. through the Contamination Lab).
Politecnico di Torino aims to test and implement 
a variety of innovative educational approaches, 
without jeopardizing its traditional sound 
educational framework. These innovations will be 
introduced alongside to the growth of the 
competences acquired by our students through 
activities that may foster their professional 
maturity. Our University considers 
the teacher-student relationship to be a core 
educational value, which cannot be completely 
replaced by remote teaching (e.g., by MOOCs).

26 27EDUCATION
Therefore, Politecnico di Torino is going to 
experiment a progressive transformation 
of educational models with the aim of favouring 
experiential learning - where appropriate - rather than 
the mere transfer of contents through frontal 
teaching. As a consequence, new educational 
models will pave the way for an ever more 
interactive relationship between lecturers 
and students. This is going to have two effects: 
on one hand, a more experiential, up-to-date 
pedagogy; on the other hand, a more effective use 
of our tenured faculty members. They will be able 
to work more than they can do today, to stimulate 
students’ critical thinking and project capabilities. 
This teaching model will count on the support 
of competent teaching assistants and adjunct 
professors and will also include seminars 
and meetings with our alumni. Besides enriching 
the variety of the teaching contributions, this model 
will provide an opportunity to share knowledge 
and experience within a broader academic 
community. Finally, faculty members’ recruitment 
policies will be modified in order to give adequate 
value to the candidates’ teaching skills in dealing 
with both traditional and new teaching methods.
Pedagogy has to be revisited and this should not be 
done occasionally or as an individual effort,  
but systematically. This need stems from the constant 
evolution of professions, course contents and 
educational technologies, as well as 
the development of new learning practices 
adopted by young millennials.
In the pursuit of these objectives, Politecnico di Torino 
is going to establish a Learning Centre that 
will provide spaces for interactive team-based 
teaching and learning. A Teaching Lab is going 
to be created, to share experiences, foster new 
experimentations, spread best practices and train 
our lecturers. In addition, the Teaching Lab will work 
in connection with qualified international networks 
in order to advance a broad dialogue on “good 
practices” in higher technical education.  
As we just mentioned, considering that innovative 
teaching requires appropriate spaces,  
both the Learning Centre and the Teaching Lab 
will be strongly linked to our Masterplan 
in order to ensure a farsighted planning 
of the new areas. At the same time, existing areas 
will be slightly modified in order to enable 
some innovations.
The new educational model will require significant 
commitment from both lecturers and students.  
The former, especially at Master’s level, may have 
to change the structure of their courses, sometimes 
radically. Students may need to reorganize their 
learning process and the development of their 
competences; they will become more autonomous 
even if they will continue to work under 
the guidance of a faculty member. With this aim, 
an explicit “educational deal” among the different 
members of the academic community will be 
necessary to highlight roles and commitments 
in this process.
In addition to these pedagogical aspects, our course 
catalogue will be enriched with new contents. 
Through this improvement, future engineers 
and architects will improve their competencies 
to face their professional challenges and enter 
the job market more quickly and effectively.  
Within the subsequent constant evolution of degree 
programmes, Politecnico di Torino will identify 
the right balance between a sound basic education 
and training on emerging technological trends, 
always considering their possible immaturity.
Firstly, contents will be enriched to rediscover 
and enhance the common roots of the polytechnical 
culture, which is centered on design competencies. 
Indeed, engineers and architects 
are the professionals who create the “artificial 
world” where men and women live and work.  
In fact, they share the common ability to find 
solutions to tangible problems. Today, this common 
culture is nurtured unevenly in the different degree 
programmes. Therefore, it needs to be implemented 
or revitalized through project-based activities 
that will be included in both individual courses 
and multidisciplinary activities. In particular, 
students will be guided from the traditional 
problem solving to a problem setting approach 
by developing the necessary skills. Problem setting 
is the ability to understand and develop wicked 
problem situations that are full of uncertainty 
and complexity. It will also be important 
to combine traditional “causal” with “effectual” 
reasoning approaches.
In this direction, Politecnico di Torino is going 
to constantly monitor how the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals proposed by the UN 2030 
Agenda have been introduced in the syllabus 
of each course. In addition, this will be an important 
point of reference for lecturers and students,  
as well as an incentive to analyse the interconnections 
between the different cultural fields 
and the complexity of the world.
Developing this kind of skills will enable students 
to engage in professional paths oriented 
to innovation and entrepreneurship while 
they are still studying at the university.  
Politecnico di Torino also acknowledges 
the educational value of alternative teaching formats, 
such as technical visits and student team activities. 
Therefore, our University will continue to support 
and spread these initiatives by identifying useful 
tools for their rational and stable implementation. 
In particular, support will be provided 
to the student activities, which aim to promote 
the role of technology in projects with social 
objectives at local and international level,  
under a service learning perspective. Secondly, learning contents will be partially 
reviewed so that students can develop a better 
understanding of the impact of technologies 
on business, society, and environment,  
besides being taught traditional technical 
disciplines. Actually, fundamentals of economics, 
sociology, philosophy, as well as legal 
and managerial skills, are essential ingredients 
for a successful professional integration in complex 
organizations and in smaller firms, or even 
for working as professional freelancers.  
In this regard, Politecnico di Torino is willing to 
enhance the dialogue with other local universities 
in order to share faculty members’ expertise 
and develop a course catalogue, which can provide 
our students with a sound complementary 
background in these disciplines.  
The right proportion in terms of credits assigned 
to these disciplines will have to be defined 
progressively in order to provide solid knowledge 
and not just mere general information. 
Finally, Politecnico di Torino intends to ensure 
that students develop sound soft skills to improve 
their teamwork interactions and their capability 
to work in complex organizational 
and inter-organizational contexts.  
Special attention will be paid to communication 
and language skills, as well as on their agency 
and ability to take initiatives, thus enhancing 
the value of their technical skills.  
Students are going to develop some of these soft 
skills indirectly, for instance with team projects 
and public speaking. Other skills, such as technical 
writing, will be acquired by students by means 
of traditional or on-line courses that will be short 
and engaging. In this regard, the cooperation 
with our alumni community is going to be very 
important. Our alumni can help our students 
to enhance the technical-scientific skills developed 
in class or during laboratory activities by sharing 
their professional and behavioural experiences. 
Also in this case, the workload that should be dedicated 
to the development of soft skills will be defined 
progressively in order to ensure verifiable results. 
Finally, Politecnico di Torino understands 
the importance of international student mobility 
and promotes it for as many students as possible, 
through the Erasmus programmes, thesis projects 
abroad and double degree programmes 
in cooperation with European and non-European 
universities. We achieved important results 
so far; therefore, we will continue to pursue these 
objectives by providing appropriate incentives 
to involve the various degree programmes 
in this internationalisation effort. STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

28 29EDUCATION
The above considerations will be shaped into 
the various fields and levels of education in order to 
guide students along their entire professional life.
As far as Bachelor’s degree programmes 
are concerned, Politecnico di Torino identifies two 
different needs that should be addressed.  
On one hand, it is fundamental to continue offering 
a sound education, which helps our students 
develop the core competencies, and an appropriate 
mindset oriented to methodological rigour 
and critical thinking when dealing with complex 
problems. On the other hand, we are going to plan 
a wider use of innovative teaching methods 
for the most well-established learning contents. 
This way, students will gain greater learning 
autonomy and an increasing importance will be 
placed on sessions dedicated to exercises 
and critical analysis, with lecturers and teaching 
assistants. Further educational innovations will be 
promoted for the disciplines with a more practical 
orientation, so that students can develop stronger 
design sensitivity. However, we do not believe that 
we will be able to increase significantly the flexibility 
of our Bachelor’s degree programmes.  
This is due to the fact that, at Bachelor’s level,  
we must ensure a common basic education 
for all programmes; moreover, the logistic 
and organizational impact of this kind of operation 
would be difficult to manage.
As for the Professional Bachelor’s degree 
programmes, Politecnico di Torino intends 
to monitor carefully the demand for human 
resources from local companies and institutions, 
paying special attention to SMEs. This may lead 
to design a new degree programme to train 
mid-level technical professionals who should be 
able to enter quickly the labour market.  
This three-year professionalizing academic 
path will focus on manufacturing, mechatronics 
and textile engineering. It is conceived of as 
complementary education to other existing higher 
education initiatives at local level,  
such as the ITSs. The sustainability of this 
programme will be pursued by sharing lecturers, 
laboratory equipment and technicians, in order to 
support an intensive learning-by-doing approach. 
Thanks to this orientation, our University would be 
able to increase the intake of students 
whose aptitudes and talents are more oriented 
to technical practice than to scientific study.  
This experience will be a driving force 
for the professional higher education system,  
which currently has to balance the educational 
offer and the demand for highly-specialised technical 
graduates coming from the manufacturing sector. / A LIFELONG  
LEARNING EXPERIENCEWe will need to review the structure of the internships 
for all Bachelor’s degree programmes.  
Internships must be organized as supplementary 
learning activities, with the specific aims of providing 
practical technical skills, learning how to use 
professional tools and developing soft skills 
by experience. Internships will be designed 
to be real learning experiences, with the purpose 
of fostering their professional competencies.
Finally, we are going to boost our orientation 
activities for current undergraduate students 
to help them understand their talents and define 
which are the most suitable educational outcomes 
for themselves.
As far as our Master’s degree programmes 
are concerned, we believe we can significantly 
intensify our innovative teaching actions.  
In fact, the higher maturity of Master’s students 
will allow us to reduce the existing constraints 
- such as the number of hours dedicated to frontal 
lectures corresponding to each ECTS - and provide 
more flexibility to our programmes. In our Master’s 
degree programmes we are going to put more 
emphasis on interdisciplinary activities 
and on the development of innovation-centred 
design competences. In accordance with the most 
common international practices, this flexibility 
could lead to a course catalogue based 
on a set of core subjects and a set of elective courses. 
In this way, students will be able to build their own 
academic path with an international perspective,  
in compliance with the legal constraints.
Without neglecting its mission of “mass university” , 
in the past years Politecnico di Torino decided  
to promote the education of particularly 
talented students through supplementary honours 
programmes. The Alta Scuola Politecnica is intended 
for graduate students and offers a special programme 
focused on interdisciplinarity and innovation.  
The Young Talents Project is aimed for undergraduate 
students: it includes disciplinary and in-depth 
studies and introduces students to their first 
interdisciplinary experiences. Our University 
recognizes the importance of these paths,  
which allow students to grow and which are an ideal 
environment for pedagogical experimentation.  
For these reasons, Politecnico di Torino will promote 
and share the experiences gained with these 
two educational paths through the Teaching Lab,  
to the benefit of the other academic programmes. 
As for the Alta Scuola Politecnica, in agreement with 
our partner university, Politecnico di Milano, the 
School will be strengthened as the laboratory for 
educational innovation and eventually 
for developing new Masters’ degree programmes 
that may provide an introduction to Doctoral 
programmes.The Doctoral School of Politecnico di Torino plays 
a fundamental role to connect education and research. 
It is intended for students interested in pursuing 
an academic career in Italy and abroad. It also trains 
professionals who would like to work, with sound 
technical competencies and outstanding 
methodological rigour, in private companies 
or public institutions. In this regard, both the private 
and public sectors are progressively recognizing 
– albeit in different ways - the value of Doctoral degrees. 
In the past years, the Doctoral School has been able 
to increase the number of candidates, the interactions 
with private firms and its international dimension. 
Our University will pursue some strategic initiatives 
in order to pave the way for further development. 
The first and most important action consists 
in radically increasing the number of Doctoral 
candidates, by fostering the internationalization 
of our programmes. To reach this goal, we need 
to implement new policies to increase the amount 
of our fellowships, aligning them to European 
standards, and to raise the number of international 
partnership agreements.
The second initiative is the promotion of 
“Industrial Doctoral Programmes” , which have 
the specific objectives of supporting candidates 
who wish to work for firms and institutions 
and of sharing knowledge and research results, 
without neglecting the scientific quality of the research 
that will be carried out. Furthermore, we will foster 
a tighter integration with our Master’s degree 
programmes in order to facilitate the links between 
these two levels of education. These activities 
can be supported if we encourage new synergies 
between the Doctoral School and other entities, 
such as the “Specializing Master’s Programmes 
and Lifelong Learning School” , the Alta Scuola 
Politecnica and other organisational units 
that manage the relations with companies 
at different levels. 
The Specializing Master’s Programmes 
and Lifelong Learning School of Politecnico 
di Torino was established a few years ago.  
The activities carried out by the School have been 
progressively growing, but they need to be further 
strengthened, especially in the field of Specializing 
Masters’ programmes offered on the free market 
without public funding and non-degree educational 
activities. To this end, we will need to rely 
on experience to explore the most suitable 
organisational and operational tools, in order to work 
effectively and responsively in such a competitive 
international environment. Specifically, we will 
establish a closer cooperation with specialized 
partners and top-level business schools.  
In addition, a closer coordination with the Doctoral 
School will be encouraged in order to enrich 
the course catalogue with both technical and soft 
skills, to be offered to both Doctoral candidates 
and students of the various Specializing Master’s 
programmes. Politecnico di Torino intends to be active also 
in the period that follows its students’ graduation 
(post lauream). In fact, our University acknowledges 
that our alumni are still part of the academic 
community, though in different ways.  
They are an extremely important source 
of experiences, competencies, perspectives 
and relationships that we need to promote 
to the benefit of the entire community, and especially 
for the younger generations. At the same time,  
our alumni are professionals who might be in need 
of lifelong learning opportunities, considering 
that technologies are evolving rapidly, professional 
life becomes longer, and career paths require 
more and more flexibility. Politecnico di Torino 
understands the importance of developing stronger 
links with its former students. This key objective 
will be pursued by strengthening the actions 
and activities which are already implemented 
at present. 
Firstly, our University will enhance its job 
placement activity, which is now mainly focused on 
internships and recent graduates. In this field,  
Politecnico di Torino is working actively, also thanks to 
the high demand for graduates coming from firms, 
which aim to recruit students before they finish 
their studies. Politecnico di Torino will confirm 
the initiatives that are currently in place 
and will develop new activities to support its alumni 
throughout their entire professional career.  
It will be crucial to maintain close contacts 
with the alumni community. This means helping 
them match their current competencies 
with emerging job opportunities 
and give them the chance to fill possible gaps 
in their academic background.
Secondly, the relation with our alumni will be developed 
at different levels, such as the organisation 
of periodic events and the use of networking tools, 
both commercial (e.g., social media) and proprietary. 
Politecnico di Torino will promote a broad and regular 
communication to update its alumni on institutional 
initiatives. Furthermore, our University will collect 
updated data on the roles and activities carried 
out by each former student, in order to put in place 
specific initiatives, such as new internships, joint 
research projects or technology transfer activities. 
As mentioned above, our alumni will also be 
individually involved in a variety of initiatives,  
such as post-graduation surveys,  
cooperation in educational planning activities 
or seminars/workshops, student mentoring,  
lifelong learning courses, etc…

30 31
EDUCATION
The actions described above require 
significant collaboration between 
the Departments and the Collegi, 
in accordance with their collective 
responsibility in joint decision-making 
processes. Within our current educational 
governance framework, several Collegi 
are rooted in a single Department.  
The various Collegi are strongly linked to 
their Departments from a cultural 
point of view and strive for the allocation 
of resources. This may sometimes 
generate competitive tensions,  
which risks to hinder innovation.  
Therefore, we need to identify new 
decision-making processes and new 
responsibilities that may be able to 
separate genuine cultural concerns 
from competition among structures, 
at least partially and during initial 
experimentations. This represents 
a necessary condition for properly 
implementing new educational 
programmes and pedagogical formats./ GOVERNANCE
To avoid any risk of a self-referential 
approach, every decision will be 
supported by objective assessments.  
In this regard, besides the already existing 
industrial advisory boards that support 
each Collegio in the evaluation 
of its course catalogue, Politecnico di Torino 
will develop new surveys to gather 
the opinions of a large number of alumni. 
These will be given the opportunity 
to evaluate the contents and educational 
effectiveness of each course,  
a few years after entering the labour market. 
The Collegi will be asked to develop 
an educational innovation plan.  
This plan will be aimed to share 
and enhance the experiences that have 
already been achieved. It will also help 
develop new initiatives in line with 
the specific needs of the degree 
programmes run by each Collegio,  
also from an international perspective. 
This will be pursued also by working in synergy 
with the Teaching Lab. Finally, the Collegi 
will rely on the support of the Green Team 
to align the courses contents to the 17 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals.STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

32 33
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
RESEARCH
⁄ THE NEW 
CHALLENGES 
OF RESEARCH
⁄ THE VARIOUS 
FORMS  
OF RESEARCH 
⁄ LEVELS, 
ORGANIZATION 
AND GOVERNANCE  
OF RESEARCH

34 35
Research today is becoming ever more complex 
on a global scale: Politecnico di Torino plays 
an active role in this scenario. 
We observe a significant growth of the scientific 
community at international level, with an increasingly 
important output of research products.  
This process is also driven by the substantial 
contribution of the “formerly emerging” countries, 
which often receive very significant public 
and private investments.
As for scientific disciplines, we observe complex 
phenomena in which continuous progress 
on mature scientific paradigms is accompanied 
by significant turmoil and the emergence 
of new research trajectories, which quite often arise 
from environments other than academia.⁄ THE NEW  
CHALLENGES  
OF RESEARCHRESEARCH
Our University has always worked within the 
entire range of “polytechnical” research. 
The research strategy of this Plan aims 
to increase both the effectiveness 
and the integration of the different research 
forms and, therefore, it seeks to boost 
the subsequent “third mission” activities.  
This approach will lead to adhere closely 
to the Horizon Europe programme and its 
three pillars (Open Science, Global Challenges 
and Industrial Competitiveness,  
Open Innovation).
With regard to basic research, our University 
is currently performing well, with some peaks 
of excellence. This activity is mainly developed 
by the more structured research groups,  
which have reached an adequate critical mass 
and are able to exploit synergies with applied 
research portfolios, which are easier to fund.
In this field, our University has recently 
promoted grants for basic research for all 
tenured faculty members and starting grants 
for tenure-track assistant faculty members. 
These grants aim to ensure the independence 
of researchers and they foster mobility 
and opportunities for further training.  
In addition, they also promote the aggregation 
of researchers around collaborative projects; 
they provide resources for curiosity-driven 
initiatives and enhance cultural update 
and the development of new competencies 
on emerging issues, which are required 
to carry out the University’s cross-cutting 
institutional tasks. 
After a three-year implementation, our Governing 
Bodies will carefully evaluate the outcomes 
of this policy in order to improve its effectiveness, 
as it will be done for any other initiative of this size. 
Curiosity-driven research will be also supported 
by the attraction of external funds such as 
those offered by ERC and by FET Flagships.
Coming to applied research aimed at industrial 
innovation and societal challenges and funded  
by external sources, both public and private, 
Politecnico di Torino is currently having very 
good results in terms of success rate 
of its project proposals. 
Over the years, sound support tools have been 
adopted to face the complexity of project 
management throughout the entire life cycle 
of a project and to interact with its external 
stakeholders. These skills have now been 
fully established. ⁄ THE VARIOUS  
FORMS OF RESEARCHIn this context, research is being globally driven 
towards the major planetary and societal 
challenges. In this regard, it is worth reflecting on 
the Mega-Trends reported in the periodical OECD 
“STI Outlook” reports. These reports focus on 
climate change, population aging, new medical 
paradigms, digitalization and the role of technologies 
in managing geopolitical changes, such as migration 
and security. Similarly, the UN recommended 
the adoption of the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals of its 2030 Agenda, which are also connected 
to the five priority clusters of Horizon Europe,  
the upcoming ninth EU Research, Development 
and Innovation Framework Programme. 
These challenges require a multidisciplinary 
contribution from the various fields of science 
and technology, including, in particular, digital 
technologies. In fact, “digital transformation” 
permeates all sectors of research and industry 
and gives rise to the emerging productive paradigm 
called “Industry 4.0” , for instance.  
Therefore, the disciplines associated to 
“digital transformation” should be considered both 
as separate research topics and as interdisciplinary 
enabling tools for other fields of research.
In order to tackle future challenges, science 
and innovation will have to deal with deep changes. 
In particular, as far as basic research is concerned, 
we will need to embrace the principles of Open Science 
to promote broader knowledge sharing and better 
reuse of research data. Moreover, we will need 
to consider also ethical and social issues in 
our research activities, if we want to achieve 
responsible research and innovation. 
Politecnico di Torino is working in a complex 
and tumultuous scenario by leveraging on its 
competencies and assets, but it also has to face 
some critical issues. The first issue is that our 
University’s baseline public funding is inadequate 
compared to international standards. The second 
issue is the low number of faculty members and staff. 
This problem is very serious if we consider that 
Politecnico di Torino has committed to providing 
education to a large student population.  
Finally, the last critical issue is the need to achieve 
a correct balance in research evaluation processes, 
using them as tools to improve the effectiveness 
of individual and collective actions.  
Evaluation processes should be oriented to broader 
and system-wide objectives that cannot be captured 
by mere bibliometric data. Therefore, the purpose 
of continuous improvement in this field will shape 
the strategic directions and operational decisions 
of our University, as described below.
The research strategy of Politecnico di Torino aims 
to make our University a leading player at national 
and international level, especially in relation 
to the importance and impact of its research activity 
on business and society. This strategic objective 
leads to a number of fundamental decisions. Firstly, our research activities will be oriented 
to ensure the consistency with the Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Horizon Europe 
priorities, which well fit with our University’s 
competencies. The European Union Framework 
Programme represents an essential point 
of reference for both its economic relevance 
and for the opportunities it offers in terms 
of close interactions with other European 
and non-European actors. However, our University 
does not want to transform this orientation 
into a top-down approach which might impose 
the priorities of research agendas and research 
budgets. This orientation is based on the full respect 
of freedom of research and on the awareness 
that a top-level university cannot confine itself 
to simply following the guidelines of its funding 
bodies. On the contrary, it must take independent 
decisions which may lay the foundations 
for the drafting of future research programmes.
Secondly, Politecnico di Torino will increasingly 
support multidisciplinary research activities.  
In particular, our University will foster synergies 
between “digital” disciplines and other fields 
of engineering, architecture, planning and design. 
This commitment will lead to confirm the goals 
of the recently established Interdepartmental 
Research Centres and to encourage new initiatives 
in other cultural fields. At the same time,  
our University will advance the organizational 
model adopted by the Interdepartmental Centres 
and will promote the evolution of their research 
agenda on the basis of periodical evaluations 
and the identification of new strategic directions.
Finally, our University will foster a strong integration 
between the different phases of basic and applied 
research and the innovation-centred activities 
which will follow. This will ensure an impactful 
dissemination of research results towards industry 
and society. In this context, Politecnico di Torino 
will encourage the progressive diffusion 
of the principles of Open Science 
and Responsible Research and Innovation. STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

36 37RESEARCH
Our University will enhance this type 
of research. It will work to improve 
the understanding and dissemination 
of the opportunities offered by EU research 
funding within the academic community 
and it will benefit from the positive effects 
arising from international cooperation 
with other universities and large 
multinational companies. 
This will ensure that activities will be 
at the leading edge of research 
and will limit the risks of isolation 
and self-centeredness. Furthermore,  
in planning its research activities,  
Politecnico di Torino will focus on the contents 
and the relevance of results in order to avoid 
focusing only on the immediate economic 
returns of project funding.  
Politecnico di Torino will provide increasing 
support for the drafting of project proposals, 
especially with regard to the economic, 
ethical, legal and impact aspects of its 
projects. Our University will make greater 
efforts to engage local companies in research 
consortia, and especially SMEs which seem 
to be more inclined to get involved in this type 
of activity. A similar objective will be pursued 
with local public administrations, in order to 
engage them as project partners 
and in their capacity to shape the political 
and socioeconomic trajectories 
that may stem from research. 
Our University is going to work to improve 
its involvement in the drafting of future 
“research agendas” at regional, national 
and European level, as well as to foster 
a better implementation and dissemination 
of the opportunities offered by EU research 
funding within the academic community,  
also by establishing a hub 
of Politecnico di Torino in Brussels. 
More generally, Politecnico di Torino intends 
to continue to participate in a proactive way 
in the national and international networks 
of which it is a member, in order to share good 
practices, pursue common research goals 
and achieve a critical mass in supporting 
international bodies in the definition 
of research agendas.
Finally, dissemination of research results 
will be significantly enhanced by creating 
a “research agora” . This “agora” will be based 
on the strengthening of traditional 
communication channels, on the creation 
of a research and competence database 
and on an institutional “showroom” .  
This dissemination strategy will target 
external stakeholders to increase cooperation 
opportunities in industrial research and third 
mission activities. It will also target internal 
actors to favour interdisciplinary synergies 
among the various members of our community.The activity of Politecnico di Torino in the field 
of industrial research is very effective,  
but our University still has a significant 
untapped potential. In recent years,  
Politecnico di Torino has provided increasing 
support to researchers, especially to help them 
establish partnerships with large companies.  
In Italy Politecnico di Torino pioneered 
the development of medium and long-term 
partnership agreements based 
on multidisciplinary research programmes, 
which often led to opening Joint Labs 
and locating industrial research activities 
within our campus. For Politecnico di Torino 
these agreements represent an important 
experience, which enabled our University 
to be on the frontier of technology 
and to increase its ability to compete with other 
universities at national and international level. 
These agreements also allowed to substantially 
reducing the often decried gap between 
research activities and innovation.  
Given this experience, Politecnico di Torino 
will continue to develop its partnerships 
with large firms by renewing existing agreements 
and establishing new ones, without limiting 
its perspective to local relations.
The partnerships with large firms will be 
accompanied by similar mechanisms,  
which will foster a fruitful interaction with SMEs, 
especially at local level. Our objective 
is to renew the industrial base of our territory 
and foster the emergence of new medium 
and large enterprises.  
These mechanisms will initially be tested 
and then scaled up so to take into account 
a variety of factors. Among these, the specificities 
of SMEs, the need to act selectively on the firms 
and sectors that can benefit the most from such 
cooperation, as well as the need to safeguard 
the efficiency of the actions carried out 
by our University and by the SMEs involved. 
For both types of partnerships,  
Politecnico di Torino will work towards 
encouraging the development of long-term 
strategic relationships, rather than searching 
immediate economic returns only. 
To this end, particular emphasis will be placed 
on the mobility of both academic and industrial 
staff and on the development of 
“Industrial doctoral programmes” .
These courses are intended for young graduates 
or employees selected by their companies 
and will contribute to the growth of human 
resources, who can be a particularly effective 
vehicle for knowledge sharing 
and technology transfer. 
In this regard, Politecnico di Torino needs to foster 
systematic connections between the offices 
responsible for these partnerships and the Office 
of Career Services, since it is aware that partner 
companies often consider collaboration 
in research activities and the recruitment 
of young talents as a bundle. 
When negotiating with firms, it will be 
important to identify clearly the level 
of technological maturity actually achievable 
within the University and the level that should 
be absorbed and managed by our industrial 
partners, or by other actors who specifically 
work in the “technology transfer” value chain.
Finally, benchmarking with other Universities 
will be carried out in order to make contractual 
frameworks more flexible, so they can be more 
easily adapted to the different counterparties, 
and making sure that the mechanisms used 
to allocate the activities to the different members 
of the University are more transparent  
and streamlined.

38
RESEARCH
Politecnico di Torino is the core of a very complex 
research and innovation “ecosystem” in which research 
and “third mission” activities are strongly linked 
to one another and to the different sectors of economy, 
relying on a number of “bridging institutions” 
founded in the last 20 years. This section analyses 
all the activities carried out within our University, 
while the activities developed outside Politecnico 
will be described in section 5.
Research activities are organized around the various 
Departments of the University, in accordance 
with national law and with academic tradition. 
Politecnico di Torino has 11 Departments,  
some of which work on a limited number of disciplines, 
while others conduct research on a greater variety 
of cultural fields. In recent years, Politecnico di Torino 
has decided to establish a number of Interdepartmental 
Research Centres which pursue the achievement 
of a critical mass in view of three possible 
and different goals.
The recent creation of the Interdepartmental Centres, 
in addition to the long-established organisation 
centred on the Departments has led to a new matrix 
structure which must be carefully governed.  
To this end, an in-depth analysis has been carried 
out to identify the different “places” (loci) where 
research is conducted. They include not only 
well-established institutional entities, but also 
the workplaces where our researchers operate 
every day. In particular, this analysis identified four 
main levels. Not only these levels have to coexist, 
but also they must mutually reinforce each other 
to let our University generate the highest impact 
on this fundamental mission.The analysis carried out in this field revealed 
that there are still some difficulties when 
it comes to managing relations between 
research groups and firms or public 
institutions. In order to tackle these problems, 
our University will invest in staff members 
who will be in charge of managing 
these relationships: they will need to have 
adequate sensitivity to understand 
the technical-scientific contents of projects, 
the opportunities for exploitation, as well as 
the busines and industrial needs of the 
counterparties. We will therefore work to build 
on previous experiences in order to strengthen 
a service of “research agents” who should 
be able to make proactive proposals to companies 
and a service of “account managers”  
who should look after established relations 
and work in close contact with research groups.
Our University recognizes that the different 
phases of research constitute a continuum 
of activities and relationships. For this reason, 
the overall structure of the University’s 
administrative services need to be reorganized 
in order to avoid overlaps between central 
and peripheral entities, parallelisms, 
fragmentation and discontinuities between 
the services which support research 
and technology transfer. A management 
control system aimed to cover planning and 
risk management will also be implemented. 
This will lead to strengthen 
and extend the services currently offered.  
In particular, Politecnico di Torino will enhance 
the services that provide support in the following 
areas: social, economic, legal and ethical 
dimensions of research projects, 
communication of research and funding 
opportunities, dissemination of research 
results, internationalisation activities, 
especially towards high-level universities 
and “strategic” countries.
In conclusion, Politecnico di Torino intends 
to increasingly support every single research 
phase and safeguard a harmonious 
development of the various phases.  
This way, our University is going to be able to 
preserve the balance it has achieved so far, 
which is a crucial value to ensure the ability 
to generate new knowledge and share it 
with society.⁄ LEVELS, 
ORGANIZATION 
AND GOVERNANCE  
OF RESEARCH
39STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024
— The first objective is associated with the need to acquire 
important research infrastructures and ensure their efficient 
and widespread use. In this context, the focus is on multidisciplinary 
activities which allow to jointly manage these assets. 
— The second objective derives from the need to tackle complex 
research issues that have an interdisciplinary nature and are 
typically linked to the above-mentioned societal challenges.  
In this context, the various fields of the “polytechnical culture”  
focus on sharing research programmes and project activities.
— Last but not least, the third objective may be linked to the need 
to promote convergence of disciplines in a trans-disciplinary 
perspective, which encourages the emergence of new scientific 
paradigms. In this case, it will be possible to foster a closer 
collaboration among the various cultural fields where the common 
knowledge base can be merged progressively to give rise 
to new disciplines./ THE THREE GOALS OF THE 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL RESEARCH CENTRES

STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024
40RESEARCH
41— The first level is represented by individual researchers,  
who generally consider individual work as a significant opportunity 
for research flexibility and freedom. However, and especially 
in some cultural contexts, this locus of research may lead 
to research programmes which privilege quantitative aspects 
- in terms of bibliometric results - together with a low coverage 
of competencies, self-centredness, poor planning capability 
and a limited possibility to access infrastructures 
and effectively communicate research results.
— The second level is represented by research groups,  
which are considered by researchers (as well as by literature) 
to be the most effective locus of research. The research group 
is the main environment of a researcher’s daily activity and dialogue. 
Research groups promote synergies between competencies;  
they facilitate access to financial resources and assets and allow 
achieving a “critical mass” . At the same time, research groups require 
effective leadership and they need to avert risks of self-centredness 
when dealing with broader fields. Moreover, the “departmental 
house” , where university groups have been growing has sometimes 
led to poor levels of multidisciplinarity, which hinders new research 
and innovation paradigms.
— Departments are perceived as the “home” where each researcher 
develops his/her own career and the place where synergies between 
the three university missions can be implemented.  
Departments have sound planning capability and ensure effective 
visibility from the outside. However, researchers perceive 
that departments have a limited capacity of strategic elaboration. 
This implies the risk of reducing it to a mere logistical-administrative 
support centre or as a collegial entity acting as a counterparty 
to the central governing bodies.
— Interdepartmental structures are perceived as a place which 
favours the opportunities mentioned above (i.e., sharing of assets, 
research programmes, and cultural fields). They stimulate innovation 
and help to reach the technological frontier, but they require knowing 
how to work with a different approach, with adequate coordination 
and integration tools. By its own nature, this structure is a temporary 
entity and is strongly bound to the achievement of its own 
specific objectives, as outlined above./ THE DIFFERENT "LOCI"  
WHERE RESEARCH IS CONDUCEDIt is essential that each one of these loci of research 
is properly supported and managed if we want 
to achieve a harmonious development of research 
in our University, as well as synergic and non-conflicting 
relationships among these loci.  
This operation will also be useful to valorise 
and leverage the relational capital accrued over 
the years in both academia and industry 
at national and international level.
Departments need to continue progressing up 
to the point where they can play the role 
they have been assigned to by the law 
and the Statute of Politecnico di Torino.  
In particular, they must become loci of strategic 
elaboration by means of adopting guidelines 
and plans which are consistent with this Strategic 
Plan and interpret its contents according 
to the specific features of each departmental 
community. This will allow preserving and boosting 
disciplinary competencies with the aim 
of nurturing future activities within the department 
as well as new interdisciplinary activities. 
Interdepartmental Centres, after their initial 
implementation, should be dedicated to develop 
activities that must be complementary 
to the activities carried out by the Departments.  
In fact, they should be considered as loci devoted  
to “creating new cultures” , and not simply 
to “bringing different cultures together” .  
To this end, their missions must be outlined 
in accordance with their specific objectives 
and value creation mechanisms.  
These Centres need to become open, flexible 
and able to evolve. Moreover, and especially 
for research infrastructures, their management 
model should ensure strong synergies among their 
users. They must provide uniformity in policies 
granting use and access to infrastructures, 
expand visibility and enhance the services offered. 
Consequently, and to the benefit of the Departments, 
our Interdepartmental Centres will become 
real collaborative platforms open to the various 
areas of our University and to external actors.  
In this regard, our University will pay particular 
attention to the recruitment and training of highly 
qualified laboratory technicians who will provide 
competent support for the use of infrastructures.

42 43RESEARCH
Research Groups, besides being the locus of daily 
research activities, play a dual role: they are sources 
of knowledge and, at the same time, they are also 
the hubs of a complex network of relations,  
both internally and externally. This role must lead 
to a “vertical” contribution within the Departments 
and a “transversal” contribution to the activity 
of the Interdepartmental Centres, contributing 
not only to research but also to the other university 
missions. Nowadays these fundamental 
contributions are only partially recognised,  
more in form than in substance.  To this end,  
we need to define new mechanisms to identify 
and valorise the membership to a specific 
“research group” , so that each group may find 
its right position in the complex organizational 
pattern of our University without any distortions.
Our University will continue to focus on the work 
carried out by individual researchers,  
but at the same time, it will promote their aggregation 
in research groups whose size and cultural 
background may allow tackling effectively 
the increasing complexity of technological research 
at international level. In particular,  
Politecnico di Torino is going to confirm its commitment 
to the implementation of the European Charter 
for Researchers principles. This will be done 
in order to guarantee a free research environment 
in which equal opportunities of work activities 
and career growth can be offered to all the actors 
involved. Moreover, our University’s choice to seek 
interdisciplinary research activities will result 
in the introduction of mechanisms, which should 
enhance this kind of experiences also when 
it comes to recruitment and career evaluation.
Particular focus will be placed on the external 
recruitment of faculty members, whose talents 
can integrate and complement the competencies 
of our current ones, in order to nurture multidisciplinary 
in research, as well as in education. 
With the support of our academic community,  
this will allow us to enhance the process that ensures 
the continuous advancement of knowledge,  
which is our most valuable asset and is crucial 
to make a mark in a rapidly changing society.  
Our university will implement specific actions to attract 
highly qualified lecturers from abroad.  
These actions will be coordinated and combined 
with strategies aimed at strengthening international 
relations. The internationalization of research 
will also be promoted through policies supporting 
the outgoing mobility of researchers.Finally, Politecnico di Torino will seek to create 
the essential conditions to encourage the professional 
growth of temporary research staff by offering them 
fair career opportunities. In particular, our University 
will plan positions for fixed-term researchers 
and research fellows in a way that should avoid 
the creation of large cohorts of senior researchers 
with limited opportunities for tenure. 
At the same time, it will work towards a significant 
rise in number of Ph.D . candidates. To achieve 
this goal, Politecnico di Torino will increase the number 
of doctoral scholarships and the amount of the grants. 
It will also promote new international agreements 
with industrial or public partners.  
Thanks to these initiatives, our Ph.D. candidates 
will become the main group of non-tenured persons 
working to support scientific research at our University, 
in line with what happens in the best technical 
universities worldwide. Politecnico di Torino  
will especially work to help our young researchers 
develop competencies that may be successfully 
used in a variety of sectors. At the same time,  
they will be made aware of the various career 
opportunities available both inside and outside 
the academic world.STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

44 45
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
THE “THIRD 
MISSION”: 
TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER AND 
KNOWLEDGE SHARING
⁄ THE “THIRD 
MISSION”  
OVER TIME
⁄ THE VARIOUS FIELDS 
OF TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER
⁄ CULTURE  
AND COMMUNICATION⁄ TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER MODELS

46
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024 47Politecnico di Torino has always recognized 
the fundamental importance of its role in the activities 
related to the “third mission” of universities.  
As it is natural for any technical university, 
Politecnico di Torino has actively supported 
the development of Piemonte and Italy by cooperating 
with industry in the different phases of our history. 
Initially Politecnico di Torino supported the construction 
of our civil infrastructures; then, it participated 
actively in the first wave of industrialization 
in the Nineteenth Century. It also contributed 
to the “electric revolution” of the Second Industrial 
Revolution, as well as to the massive industrialization 
of the first and second post-war periods, all the way 
up to the electronics and information technology 
revolution of the last decades. Similarly,  
today Politecnico di Torino is contributing 
to the “Fourth Industrial Revolution” by exploiting 
the results of its decade-long research activities 
supporting the establishment of the local 
“Industry 4.0” Competence Centre.THE “THIRD MISSION”
⁄ THE “THIRD MISSION”  
OVER TIME
At the beginning, our University found it quite 
natural to pursue its third mission, which mainly 
consisted in cooperation with companies and education 
of generations of “polytechnical” professionals, 
managers and executives. Over the last 20 years, 
the third mission has become more and more explicit 
and our University has pioneered specific initiatives 
at national level. The creation of the first Italian 
university incubator in 1999, the establishment 
of applied and industrial research laboratories 
within the “Cittadella Politecnica” in 2003,  
the development of the Office and the Laboratory 
for Technology Transfer in 2014 are some examples 
that showcase our University’s steady willingness 
and ability to interact with the economic 
and social environment.
Over the years, the “third mission” , originally 
intended and limited to Technology Transfer 
activities, has expanded and developed its sphere 
of action. “Sharing” and “co-generating” knowledge 
have become an ever more relevant topic of debate 
as far as the relationships with companies 
are concerned. Nowadays, the role of academia 
towards society in disseminating research results 
and promoting open debate on the social,  
economic and political impact of technologies 
is gaining momentum. The result of this process 
is a new model:
an open, accessible campus, keen to the quality 
of life and to inclusiveness, which promotes 
continuous dialogue with society and the local 
community and is able not only to develop new 
technologies, but also to foster positive 
applications inspired by sustainable 
development. 
According to this Strategic Plan 
- and in line with the Horizon Europe programme - 
Politecnico di Torino intends to confirm and advance 
its “third mission” activities by embracing 
two core strategic objectives. 
The first objective is to increase the resources 
available for our University, in a medium to long-term 
perspective. This objective derives from the awareness 
that, when we carry out third-mission activities, 
achieving results requires time and consolidation 
of relationships; to this end, seeking immediate 
and illusory returns should be avoided.The second objective is to contribute to the 
development of our local territory and country 
with renewed commitment. To pursue this goal, 
Politecnico di Torino is going to foster the growth 
of the competitiveness of firms, promote 
the dissemination of a sound “polytechnical culture” 
in the different fields of society. Moreover,  
it will provide solid support to policy-makers 
in defining policies and norms that may foster 
the virtuous development of a society that is going 
through significant technological and societal changes.
In the pursuit of these strategic objectives, our efforts 
will be oriented towards two main directions.  
The first is the strengthening of the “innovation 
value chain” , which starts from the development 
of competence and research results and stretches 
into their industrial application. This will require 
coping with current gaps in skills and funding 
and developing new models suitable for the fields 
of architecture, design and planning. The second 
direction is oriented towards working in fields 
that are still relatively unexplored by our University, 
dealing with cultural promotion, communication 
and public engagement. These two orientations 
are presented in detail in the following paragraphs.

48 49
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024The “third mission” consists of a wide variety 
of fields of action, which are closely related both 
to each other and to research and teaching.  
This section of the Strategic Plan presents the activities 
that actually follow those described in the previous 
sections from the point of view of organization 
and process. Reference is made to the sections 
on research and education for topics which deal with, 
respectively, collaborative research with industry 
and educational design and job placement.
In recent years, Politecnico di Torino has made great 
efforts to ensure effective legal, administrative 
and commercial support to industrial property 
rights management. Our University ranks very high 
compared to other Italian universities for its intellectual 
property performance, although our ranking 
is still poor at international level. This process 
will be improved, so that our patent portfolio may 
achieve a critical mass and become more attractive 
for licensing, both locally and internationally. 
This will increase economic returns and show 
our University’s researchers the benefits of this activity. 
The licensing activity requires renewed attention 
if we want to overcome the difficulties encountered 
so far, such as the lack of professionals with appropriate 
skills and relationships and the relatively low 
“absorption capacity” of local companies.  
To solve this issue, our University needs to involve 
new professionals, foster Proof of Concept initiatives 
which seek to raise the Technology Readiness Level 
of patented technologies and extend its network 
of relations to a higher number of companies.
Politecnico di Torino has always worked to support THE “THIRD MISSION”
the creation of innovative enterprises,  
including research spin-offs (see Italian Ministerial 
Decree no. 168/2011) and start-ups established 
in close connection with our University.  
These activities are carried out through 
entrepreneurship training and active support,  
both within the University and with the help 
of the I3P incubator. In this regard, the results 
achieved so far have had a significant impact 
on the ability of the territory of Piemonte to generate 
hi-tech entrepreneurship. However, the growth rates 
in terms of number of start-ups and fundraising 
are lower than the rates of other “ecosystems”  
at international and national level. This is mainly 
due to a different economic dynamism 
of the various territories and to the lack of large 
venture capital firms in Italy. To fill this gap, 
training activities on entrepreneurship will be 
systematically offered to a wider number of students 
and researchers, while the University will foster 
new synergies with local government.  
The I3P incubator will also be relaunched, 
through its effective integration into the innovation 
ecosystem that we are building around our University 
and though the attraction of international seed 
and early-stage venture capital funds.  
In particular, the launch of new start-ups 
(and especially research spin-offs) will rely on 
technologies with greater maturity and founding 
teams with better competence, also by stimulating 
an early involvement of venture capital funds. 
This will allow the I3P to focus more on equity 
fundraising, as well as on the business 
and sales development of these start-up 
companies. Politecnico di Torino will make 
a review - and if possible, a simplification 
- of the requirements for the creation 
and management of academic spin-offs.
“Third mission” activities cannot disregard 
the active involvement of individual researchers 
and research groups, both in the activities carried 
out through the University and in the ones 
that faculty members are allowed to develop 
on their own by the current Italian law.
Currently, this involvement turns 
to be somehow unattractive, because of the scant 
incentives for devoting time and energy 
to “third mission” activities.⁄ THE VARIOUS FIELDS 
OF TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFERTo this end, our University will have to adjust 
its career evaluation processes in order to take 
into account the activities carried out in this field. 
Free and independent activities are important as well, 
since they have always allowed a significant 
and widespread connection with industry,  
which has often been a precursor to institutional 
relationships and the development 
of faculty members’ competencies. 
However, their development is now hindered 
by the current legislation and by the interpretation 
of jurisprudence, which limits the possibilities 
for full-time faculty members. Collaborative actions 
will therefore be required in several fields 
to avoid losing opportunities for cooperation 
with external actors.
Relations with Professional bodies represent 
a “translation” of the “third mission” that must be 
enhanced and relaunched. Today, these relationships 
are limited to institutional fields, but further 
important synergies are possible and desirable, 
especially in relation to lifelong learning.  
In this regard, Politecnico di Torino can play 
a fundamental role in disseminating the most 
advanced technologies and research results 
to individual professionals by involving them 
in educational programmes, as well as by supporting 
the dimensional growth of professional services 
firms. The implementation of these paths will start 
from a smooth and constructive debate on the 
services rendered by professionals and the consulting 
activities carried out by the University.
In the fields of architecture, planning and design 
some prior experiences have has been developed 
with local public administrations, local authorities, 
national heritage offices, private research centres, 
associations and NGOs, together with professional 
and entrepreneurial activities. The favourable 
conditions offered by the recently established 
Interdepartmental Centres, the output of new 
initiatives, among which the possible creation 
of a Design Centre, will further enlarge the scope 
of action in these fields. It is also important to underline 
the widespread and constant action carried out 
in cooperation with local actors by our University’s 
Green Team for the organization of events, debates, 
talk shows on the topics of Agenda 2030 
and the associated Sustainable Development Goals. 
Our University is going to confirm and boost 
the Green Team’s actions in order to have a positive 
impact not only on the campus (e.g., energy, food, 
waste, water, mobility, green shopping, etc..),  
but also on the local territory (urban outreach).  
The aim is to generate a widespread and multipolar 
service system (dealing with social inclusion, 
revitalization of urban areas at risk of degradation, 
cultural integration and social cohesion, welfare, 
urban regeneration, environmental sustainability, 
health and welfare promotion, active citizenship, 
etc.). It may be highly interconnected and accessible 
to the milieu of local actors (public and private 
companies and institutions at various levels). Politecnico di Torino’s impact on industrial policy 
and attraction of investments is rooted in a variety 
of structures and initiatives (e.g. Regional Innovation 
Poles, National Clusters, Industry 4.0 Competence 
Centre, etc.). Through industrial partnerships,  
our University has also played a leading role 
in encouraging new industrial and R&D 
settlements at local level. 
Dialogue with relevant actors at local and national 
level will be strengthened in order to ensure 
continuous progress of these policies and give 
our University an increasingly active role 
in this process, also with the aim of creating 
a talent-friendly ecosystem which may favour 
the attraction and retention of high-quality 
graduates. Specifically, particular emphasis 
will be placed on attracting investments 
to the areas neighbouring our University’s campuses, 
in line with specific initiatives such 
as the Energy Centre.
The “third mission” also includes the provision 
of technical-scientific support to standardization 
bodies, policy-makers and independent regulatory 
authorities, to help them understand the evolution 
of new technologies and govern their implementation 
in industry, society and the environment.  
The recent turbulent technological developments 
make it necessary and appropriate to strengthen 
these activities which – up to the present – 
have been mainly developed thanks to the initiatives 
of individual faculty members. This is a still unexpressed 
potential, where the technical-scientific competence 
and the impartiality of our University constitute 
an important value.
Finally, the “third mission” also deals with 
international development cooperation.  
Our University has had some important experiences 
in this field thanks to individual initiatives.  
However, these activities are still not properly promoted 
and they have not been organized in a common 
strategy. In this regard, our University will strive 
to reinforce its commitment to international 
cooperation. This will be achieved by paying 
particular attention to the regions of Asia and Africa, 
by participating into international networks working 
in this field and interacting with international 
organizations as well as by stimulating an active 
involvement of the various members 
of the academic community, including students. 

STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—202450The current Technology Transfer model is based on 
the overlapping of a variety of successful experiences 
from different historical periods. These experiences 
constitute a heritage of skills and relationships 
that must not be dispersed. On the contrary,  
they must be enhanced and made more synergistic. 
Our University recognizes that Technology Transfer 
activities, conceived as a continuous process starting 
from research and ending in the production 
of innovative goods and services, cannot be fully 
implemented within the boundaries of a university. 
This statement is based on a deep reflection 
on our activities. From an institutional point of view, 
the action of a public university cannot extend 
to competing on the markets for goods and services. 
Financial reasons also suggest that it may be more 
coherent and effective for other stakeholders 
to finance specific phases of the Technology Transfer 
activities. Finally, organizational reasons make 
it clear that some Technology Transfer activities 
require skills and organizational approaches 
that cannot be implemented effectively 
in a public organisation, especially given 
our current regulatory framework.
These observations support Politecnico di Torino’s 
intention to work, together with local actors,  
to build an “innovation ecosystem” consisting 
of complementary bridging institutions which may 
ensure full, uninterrupted and effective coverage 
of the Technology Transfer value chain. In particular, 
if we bring closer the offer of innovation with the firms 
representing the potential demand and the financial 
sector, it will be possible to promote an “early market” 
that may speed up both the development 
and the adoption of new technologies.
In the short term, the various Technology Transfer 
activities will therefore be entrusted to the 
administrative units of our University, to the recently 
established Links Foundation and Links Innovation 
company, to the I3P incubator, as well as to other 
entities that will progressively compose the mosaic 
of a true “innovation district”.In the field of culture and communication,  
this Strategic Plan seeks not only to strengthen 
the traditional functions of the basic missions 
of our University (e.g., libraries, archives,  
press office, etc.), but also to organize them 
in a more structured manner. This would allow 
reaching an array of third mission activities 
that should be wider and more synergistic 
than traditional “Technology Transfer” activities. 
Therefore, the aim is to achieve a strong integration 
between cultural and communication activities. 
These activities have always been existing 
in our University, but they have not been considered 
as a whole, nor have they been the subject 
of any strategic planning.
Our University’s commitment to this new field of action 
is inspired by the desire of improving external 
communication as well our University’s corporate 
image and the services offered to our faculty 
members and students. Yet, these are not the only 
reasons for focusing on culture and communication. 
It is especially because we consider our University 
an open community that stems from society 
and wishes to evolve with society through a close 
dialogue based on common democratic values.
Culture and communication activities are intended 
as a whole; they are well structured and closely 
connected to each other and have a number 
of possible functions.
As for the support for education and research, 
our University will bolster its library and archival 
services and will launch projects to promote 
its museums, being aware that we are responsible 
for preserving and transferring the heritage of the past 
to the new generations. In addition, open access 
to research results will be strongly encouraged 
and promoted in order to bring our University’s policies 
closer to the level of international best practices. 
Finally, the planning of a new and important 
Cultural Centre and Library will be started:  
this will also allow to overcome the current significant 
limitations of our existing buildings.THE “THIRD MISSION”
⁄ TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER MODELS
⁄ CULTURE  
AND COMMUNICATION
51New initiatives will be launched with the purpose 
of enhancing the common culture shared 
by the academic community. This orientation 
starts from the idea that universities are institutions 
that attract people who are fond of knowledge 
and want to dedicate their professional life to it. 
Therefore, activities in support of the academic 
community will be promoted, by creating events 
for dialogue and acknowledgment, by revising 
ceremonies and celebrations, by highlighting 
important moments in our University’s life,  
by thinking of innovative forms of expression 
of the University’s appreciation towards the 
members of its community. In addition, new attention 
will be paid to the meetings among people. 
Therefore, logistical support and coherent 
communication will be provided to meetings 
of different types: meetings taking place inside 
or outside the University; workshops gathering 
a limited number of scholars or large conferences; 
scientific meetings or events open to the public; 
meetings organised by individual members 
of the academic community or by external bodies.
Communication is crucial to allow members 
of the academic community to work at their best 
and promote our University, its activities 
and its potential to civil society, businesses 
and institutions. Specific support will be provided 
to the members of the academic community 
who are willing to undertake dissemination 
and communication activities making use 
of their prestige and natural inclinations to do so. 
Communication will be strengthened at different 
levels on traditional and social media for a real leap 
in quality. This will be done by combining 
media-oriented activities with other actions, 
including cultural initiatives. 
As for the commitment to dissemination and dialogue, 
our University will increase its responsibility 
to interact with society, to disseminate research 
results and establish dialogue with citizens 
and institutions on issues of particular relevance. 
Politecnico di Torino will make use of this dialogue 
to address the fears and hopes of those who have 
to deal with an increasingly rapid and powerful 
evolution of technology and will try to offer them 
a constructive contribution based on its competence. 
Our University will be able to play the influential 
role of “summoning people” by encouraging dialogue 
between those who are interested in a specific topic 
- perhaps even a controversial issue - in order to 
facilitate mutual understanding, also with the 
help of the members of the academic community. 
In addition, our University will participate in the cultural 
initiatives of civil society - such as festivals, 
conferences, debates – with the aim of contributing 
to the great debates of our time with its voice.These goals will be achieved in different ways.  
It will be important to focus on physical places 
such as libraries, reading and meeting rooms, 
archives and museums. To this end, it will be necessary 
to give value to physical objects such as books 
and magazines, contents of archives, objects preserved 
in museums: a material heritage that requires care 
and sense of responsibility. The already mentioned 
project of a Cultural Centre and Library, conceived 
to serve both the academic community and the City, 
will represent the target of this process.  
In the era of digital revolution, physical spaces 
and objects coexist with digital spaces and objects, 
whose importance is constantly increasing. 
Therefore, we need to redesign all the online spaces 
of the University with an ambitious project 
which will involve both the contents 
and the graphic design. In this context, scientific 
publications (via open access), teaching materials 
and other support materials for career guidance 
(via open educational resources), as well as data 
(via open data) will pave the way for more visibility 
and greater impact of our University on society. 
51

52 53
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
WHICH  
KIND OF  
UNIVERSITY?
⁄ OUR ACADEMIC 
COMMUNITY
⁄ STAFF POLICIES
⁄ GOVERNANCE
⁄ A NEW CULTURE  
OF QUALITY
⁄ SUSTAINABILITY  
AT OUR UNIVERSITY
⁄ TOWARDS  
A DIGITAL UNIVERSITY
⁄ THE MASTERPLAN⁄ ORGANISATION

55WHICH KIND OF UNIVERSITY?
54The three previous sections have outlined 
the main strategic orientations 
for the three missions of Politecnico di Torino: 
education, research and third mission. 
These strategic orientations partly 
confirm the path already undertaken 
by our University, and partly innovate it 
in a significant way. Therefore, managing 
change becomes crucial to make 
our University more rational and flexible 
in order to tackle today’s challenges 
and especially the challenges 
of the years to come.
The implementation of this strategic plan 
will require a review of the mechanisms 
through which the University works 
on a daily basis. This section explores 
the vision of Politecnico di Torino as an 
“open academic community”  
(see Section 2). It examines its organization 
and internal processes and looks 
into the governance of our University.
⁄ OUR ACADEMIC 
COMMUNITY
When we discuss our University model starting from 
the concept of academic community, we make an 
important choice: that of focusing on the individual 
and collective actions of the members 
of the community, ensuring equal opportunities 
to all of them and promoting their talents and merit. 
Moreover, this choice implies that we want 
to rediscover and claim the almost millenary roots 
of the institution that we call university.  
Its history begins with the medieval guilds of students 
and teachers who chose to gather freely to generate 
and share knowledge and goes all the way to the words 
that Isidore Rabi addressed to President Eisenhower: 
“Mr. President, we are not employees of the university. 
We are the University.”
Choosing to put the academic community at the heart 
of our policies means looking at our University 
from a quite different point of view compared 
to the usual one. In particular, this perspective 
goes against the idea of considering the university 
as a “factory of graduates and research products”  
or as an “institution which provides services 
to its users” . On the contrary, this choice leads to conceive 
the University and its organization as an “enabling 
platform” , which allows the various members 
of the academic community to contribute actively 
to the mission of knowledge creation and sharing, 
with effectiveness, efficiency and flexibility.  
This orientation leads to adopt specific management 
values and criteria. These include: focus on individuals 
as members of the community, promotion 
of relationships based on the principle of subsidiarity 
among the various units of the University, academic 
freedom, process agility and, finally the idea 
that individuals who are appointed to office 
within the university should serve the community 
as “firsts among equals” .
Specifically, these values   are conveyed 
by the following strategic guidelines.
As far as our organizational values   are concerned, 
since 2012 the University has adopted the Code 
of Ethical Conduct of the University Community 
and a Code of Behaviour of Politecnico di Torino.  
These documents list the ethical principles 
to which the members of the academic community 
are required to comply.  
The expression and application of the principles 
included in these Codes, created in accordance 
with Italian law, will be oriented in a way 
that should ensure a substantial - and not merely  
ormal - adherence to these values.
Our University aims to provide the members 
of the academic community with a good, open 
and dynamic environment for study and work, ensuring 
a high quality of life, from a physical, social 
and psychological point of view. This also includes 
intangible factors and the search for a balance 
between professional and private life.
Future welfare actions will be based on an in-depth 
analysis of situations and needs (e.g. number 
of parents with young children, commuting 
schemes, etc.). In this context, our University 
will consider both personal needs (e.g. childcare, 
care for the elderly and/or family members 
with disabilities), as well as the aspects 
that are more closely related to our University’s 
missions (e.g. culture, transports, sustainability, 
etc.). In this regard, Politecnico di Torino 
will strengthen its capacity to offer support 
through counselling services.Employee-centred welfare actions will aim to ensure 
autonomy in choosing and using services, for example 
by signing agreements with service providers, 
without neglecting at the same time the value 
of the initiatives that foster aggregation 
and help to strengthen the sense of belonging 
to the community. As for students, and in particular 
those who come from outside our region 
and from abroad, we will provide more services 
and opportunities which may foster dialogue, 
integration and aggregation. Therefore, welfare 
actions will be oriented towards creating places, 
facilities, cultural and recreational activities 
by stimulating students’ initiative.  
This will take place by working in collaboration 
with specialized local bodies.
The promotion of equal opportunities 
and inclusiveness is inspired by our University’s 
commitment to ensuring fair treatment 
and opportunities to all its members.  
Moreover, it stems from the belief that diversity 
and inclusion are core values for any university 
which aims to be a school of life, as well as a place 
for study and work. In this context, by sharing 
and implementing the principles of the European 
Charter for Researchers, our University will launch 
new initiatives to monitor and govern equal 
opportunities with respect to the various aspects 
of diversity, starting from gender diversity.  
This will ensure that all actors are offered full 
and equal opportunities to carry out their activities 
and pursue paths of cultural, professional 
and career growth in a merit-based perspective.
In an ever-changing social context such as 
the current one, our University will also need 
to develop a proper sensitivity to interpret the dynamics 
of exclusion and possible emerging forms 
of discrimination. Particular attention will be paid 
both to the aspects that may limit the full 
and free expression of each individual,  
and to any possible deviant behaviour 
that may be detrimental to the dignity of the individual.
Finally, sport is an important value for our University: 
it has positive effects on the psychophysical 
well-being of individuals. It also has an educational 
function and helps to bring people together.  
To this end, sport will be promoted at different levels, 
in cooperation with the actors involved 
(CUS – Centro Universitario Sportivo), taking advantage 
of student initiatives and encouraging the creation 
of on-campus areas dedicated to sport and recreation. 
54STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

57WHICH KIND OF UNIVERSITY?
⁄ STAFF POLICIES
The first founding principle included in the Statute 
of Politecnico di Torino affirms that: “Politecnico,  
as a community, works in mutual agreement 
with students and personnel. It considers the respect 
for fundamental human rights and freedom of thought, 
research and teaching to be of primary importance” 
(see Annex to Section 2). People and their future 
are therefore the most valuable resource 
of our University.
The quality of working life, motivation and professional 
satisfaction of the people who work 
at Politecnico di Torino are important values,  
in accordance with our Statute and the vision 
that considers the university as a community. 
Moreover, these values are essential for a full 
and effective implementation of the university missions. 
Therefore, our investments will be made 
in the following directions:
— Increase in satisfaction, trust, motivation 
and sense of belonging of faculty members, 
researchers, administrative staff, technicians 
and librarians, through: I) development 
of a “sustainable campus” which may improve 
the quality of life; implementation of an increasing 
number of welfare and cultural actions,  
as well as other projects aimed at achieving 
equal opportunities; II) reinforcement 
of the importance of our University 
for the development of society and the region 
and its leading role in the process of stimulating 
national university policies; III) real and widespread 
career growth opportunities, also in terms 
of training activities and professional growth.
— Rationalization of the workload of the faculty 
members to foster better concentration 
and a peaceful environment for action, through: 
I) simplification of procedures and streamlining 
of red tape; II) greater attention to the quality 
of research, by limiting scientific hyper-production; 
III) greater support in the drafting of project 
proposals before their submission to the funding 
agencies with the help of qualified personnel 
(for example, in the fields of economics, 
sociology, ethics); IV) reorganisation of working 
life in the workplace to improve the current 
situation, based on periodic analysis of welfare 
and occupational health conditions; V) increase 
in the number of faculty members and opening 
of new fixed-term tenure-track positions. 
56— Rationalization of the workload 
of the technical, administrative and librarian 
staff (TAB), through: I) simplification 
of procedures and reduction of red tape,  
also thanks to an active role of the staff itself 
(e.g., simplification as a “flagship project”  
tied to incentive pay); II) reorganization of working 
life within the departments and the various 
administrative units to foster a fair allocation 
of activities and resources, also by taking into 
account occupational health and welfare 
analyses; III) recruitment and professional 
development of staff required in a number 
of key sectors (for example, technologists 
and technicians for teaching and research 
laboratories, experts in IT, civil engineering 
and facility management, communication,  
as well as project management, research 
and innovative education).
— Proactive engagement of those 
who feel “marginalized” and undervalued. 
Those who live in a condition of detachment 
and disaffection will be involved in different 
initiatives, such as group projects, in order to allow 
them to renew their engagement and contribution 
to the development of our University.  
Those who feel detached because of “burn out” 
will be offered counselling and psychological 
support and encouraged to develop 
a more positive mind-set towards their job.
— Training activities for the development 
of managerial skills, intended for both faculty 
members and TAB staff, aimed at improving 
the quality with which the activities 
of our University are managed, with a particular 
attention to teamwork and the culture 
of service. 
As mentioned above, the policies for recruiting 
new staff members and for career progression 
of current staff members will be crucial.  
In this regard, our University is committed to offering 
its employees real career opportunities, according 
to transparent multi-annual plans. This will be achieved 
by implementing, as far as possible, actions 
which should reduce temporary work and raise funds 
to overcome the legal limits of turnover (extraordinary 
ministerial plans, permanent positions financed 
by external bodies, etc.). Finally, the University 
is committed to providing effective staff training 
so that the professional careers of our employees 
may be in line with the needs of the University. 
These paths will be promoted for lifelong professional 
development and to guarantee flexibility.  
They will be conceived as tools to encourage individual 
growth and tackle the challenges of daily work 
as a team.⁄ ORGANISATION
As it is true in other Italian universities,  
the organizational processes of Politecnico di Torino 
are very complex. Our administrative processes 
are the result of a stratification of determinants, 
which, on one hand, is due to tradition and routine, 
and, on the other hand, is caused by new requirements 
and regulations which become more 
and more constraining. 
In this context, there is a clear incompatibility 
between the regulatory framework that governs 
the Public Administration and some specific features 
of the activities conducted by universities: 
this curbs the capacity of a university such as 
Politecnico di Torino, which is supposed 
to be competitive at international level.
This is a deeply rooted problem and various solutions 
have been proposed to overcome it, but none of them 
has been put into effect. Outside the University, 
Politecnico di Torino is going to suggest appropriate 
reforms at national level in the pursuit 
of a total or partial emancipation of universities 
from the regulations of the Public Administration, 
with an eye to gain autonomy and accountability. 
Internally, our University will go through a full review 
of priorities and processes in order to rationalize 
and simplify them. This may be also pursued 
by identifying structural solutions in compliance 
with current law, aimed at overcoming 
the aforementioned constraints.
Together with the review of processes, our University 
will also focus on our technical, administrative 
and librarian staff to acknowledge their existing 
competencies and foster their development.  
To do this, the University will offer them training 
activities, as well as the opportunity to have access 
to a variety of work experiences throughout their career. 
These policies are expected to make the work 
of our staff more qualified, by making good use 
of their talents and competencies, giving an active 
role to each individual not only in the implementation 
of processes but also in problem solving 
and continuous improvement. 
The review of our administrative processes will also 
focus on the centralisation and decentralisation 
of activities, by taking into account efficiency 
and effectiveness and making appropriate 
use of technology. In particular, processes will be 
digitalised making sure they do not become 
a burden for users. On the contrary, the aim is to provide 
solutions which enable a better management 
and control of these processes. This will allow 
our governing bodies to get an overall view 
of the activities carried out by the University 
and their performance. Data and information will also be made available 
to all members of the academic community 
in order to support their action effectively and stimulate 
new interactions. External stakeholders will have 
access to part of this information, with the objective 
to promote the knowledge generated by our University 
and foster further engagement and collaboration.
This rationalisation of processes will also include 
the mapping and review of paradministrative tasks 
(e.g. timetabling, project management, etc.) 
that are not strictly related to institutional duties 
and are currently undertaken by the faculty.  
The allocation of these activities will be based on 
the evaluation of the impact on scientific outputs 
and educational performances. 
Our University, whose mission includes the generation 
of new technologies and innovation, will be able 
to seize the opportunity to become not only 
a developer of solutions, but also an experimenter 
and a user of these solutions. Open innovation 
programmes will be developed in cooperation 
with our technical and administrative offices 
pursuant to current regulations.  
The goal of these programmes is to make 
precompetitive experimentations of the solutions 
developed within our University’s “innovation 
ecosystem” and, possibly, implement technology 
procurement strategies on a larger scale.  
This activity will improve the services provided 
by our University and enhance the work 
of the various university units. In addition,  
it will offer an opportunity for experimentation 
and it may represent a beach-head market  
or the “innovation value chain” driven by Politecnico 
di Torino, and eventually foster the attraction 
of new research and innovation activities.
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

WHICH KIND OF UNIVERSITY?
58The analysis of our University governance 
is based on the assumption that the 
University is characterised by a collegial 
nature, which represents a fundamental 
and non-negotiable value.  
However, this does not imply that the 
decision-making process cannot be strong 
and quick. Universities act according 
to the principle of subsidiarity,  
guaranteeing individuals, research groups 
and departments an adequate 
level of freedom and autonomy,  
especially in their cultural choices.  
This implies a constant tension between 
the objective of defining common 
directions, making strategic choices 
and implementing them with a top-down 
approach, and the objective of ensuring 
academic freedom, which is a legal 
cornerstone and a key value 
for the exploration of new fields 
of knowledge. / GOVERNANCE
59Finding the right balance between these 
two objectives will require an appropriate 
and explicit identification of the various 
levels of strategic objectives 
for our University as a whole 
and for its internal entities. It will also 
require new processes based 
on the constant dialogue among 
the various decision-making levels.  
This implies promoting the platforms 
where this kind of dialogue takes place, 
such as the Collegi and our Committee 
for Research, Technology Transfer 
and Services to the Community (CARTT). 
In addition, Politecnico di Torino will foster 
a process to make sure that the Strategic 
Plan is implemented at different levels. 
These activities will be carried out with 
a long-term vision, focusing on cultural 
aspects, and will be interpreted 
as a response and anticipation to challenges. 
The implementation of these activities 
will also take into account the outcomes 
of our assessments.  
This will lead to conceive assessment 
not only as a bureaucratic task 
or a tool for resource allocation,  
but also as an effective means of knowledge, 
dialogue and continuous improvement.Strategic planning at different levels 
will be crucial to define an effective 
and transparent allocation of human 
and financial resources.  
These mechanisms will be developed 
to ensure a proper balance between 
performance-based rewards 
and the provision of an adequate support 
for initiatives that adhere to our strategic 
objectives and are based on robust 
and convincing plans.STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

61
PIANO STRATEGICO 2018—2024WHICH KIND OF UNIVERSITY?
⁄ A NEW CULTURE  
OF QUALITY⁄ SUSTAINABILITY  
AT OUR UNIVERSITY
The Quality Assurance Monitoring Committee 
has analytic and supervisory functions and ensures 
impartiality thanks to its broad and representative 
composition. In addition to performing its quality 
assurance institutional task, including training 
activities and information, the Committee 
will develop new guidelines for each of the three 
university missions. This objective will be pursued 
by drawing inspiration from the Leiden Manifesto, 
adapting it to the specific features of our University.
The Quality Assurance Monitoring Committee 
will also suggest new integrated tools for ensuring 
the quality of life within our University.  
It will work to create a broad and shared culture 
of well-being in the workplace, inspired by 
the recommendations of the European Commission 
and the principles of equal opportunities,  
gender equality and diversity, participation, 
dialogue and ability to listen to people’s needs 
in order to strengthen interpersonal relationships, 
sense of identity and belonging to our University. 
Moreover, the Committee will be involved 
in the definition of welfare strategies 
for the entire academic community.For several years now, Politecnico di Torino has been 
following an integrated path, led by our University’s 
Green Team, with the purpose of embracing 
the principles of sustainability with a holistic, 
shared and systemic approach in order to turn 
our campus into a tangible example of these principles.
Today our Green Team is the hub that gathers 
competence and information on the Sustainable 
Development Goals, adapted to the university 
environment. It coordinates all the activities 
for the promotion of sustainability at Politecnico 
di Torino with a twofold objective: ensuring 
that the 17 Goals of the 2030 Agenda are included 
in our educational programmes and mobilising 
resources from national and international projects 
in an aligned and optimized way.
The Green Team Office works on topics such as energy, 
energy efficiency in buildings, sustainable mobility, 
food, water and waste, communication and knowledge 
sharing. These vertical actions are complemented 
by cross-cutting engagement activities which 
are managed and supported by our administrative 
staff, faculty members and student representative 
sand focus on the wider impacts of sustainability 
on our “third mission” .
Within the scope of this Strategic Plan,  
Politecnico di Torino will continue implementing 
these activities with the following objectives: 
promoting cross-pollination of innovative 
and transdisciplinary education; carrying out studies 
on the effectiveness of the actions and policies 
which seek to raise awareness among the academic 
community; ensuring better sustainability performance 
of our campuses; full adherence to the UN 17 
Sustainable Development Goals.
The inclusion of sustainability in our Strategic Plan 
is not a mere planning exercise.  
Above all, it is an opportunity for us, as individuals 
and groups, to reflect upon our private and professional 
choices that can contribute to sustainable 
development. Achieving sustainable development 
has many different facets depending 
on the various forms of capital that we need to preserve 
and promote: natural, built, human,  
social and intellectual capital.
60⁄ TOWARDS  
A DIGITAL UNIVERSITY
⁄ THE MASTERPLANThe objectives described in this Strategic Plan 
can also be achieved through our University’s ability 
to exploit the “digital revolution” in a proactive way, 
by supporting changes and making use of the most 
recent solutions proposed by Information 
Technology (IT).
As it is true in all organizations, IT can no longer 
be limited to mere automation of administrative 
processes, but should increasingly seek 
to add value to the core activities of universities.  
IT should provide new paradigms for education 
and support research and technology transfer 
with new solutions such as collaboration tools, 
dissemination tools to show research findings 
and parallel computing facilities.  
Finally, IT will be able to offer new management 
tools ranging from big data technology and analytics 
for the support of decision-making processes 
to the use of the Internet of Things for facility 
management. IT is so crucial in university processes 
that it is necessary to pay special attention 
to cybersecurity issues.
A permanent Committee for IT strategies 
will be established with the aim of governing 
the digital transformation of our University.  
The Committee will work on 4 pillars: network 
and computing infrastructures, personal productivity 
and smart working tools, management services 
and software, education-oriented IT tools.  
The strategic objective of this Committee will be 
to turn Politecnico di Torino into a leading university 
in digital transformation at European level.  
In particular, it will deal with technology foresight 
activities, identifying its requirements 
and suggesting strategic choices for the selection 
of technologies and the implementation 
of these activities.The transformation of our university community 
has strong impacts on the planning of its physical 
space. A few years ago, Politecnico di Torino 
has started a complex process to govern this evolution 
with the purpose of meeting the need for more 
and better spaces. 
Our University Masterplan represents a new 
and innovative tool also at international level.  
It seeks to translate the manifold demands arising 
from our community into real projects.  
However, this process should not be conceived 
as a mere translation of our governance choices 
into planning and functional organization 
of new spaces.
The Masterplan is a forum for dialogue where 
the spatial rendering of issues, needs and opportunities 
will allow to highlight the limits, problems, benefits 
and unprecedented interactions during the planning 
and decision-making process itself.  
Within this complex process, the development 
of our University’s built environment will be pursued 
according to the environmental sustainability goals 
in a structured and widespread way,  
as already stated.
The Masterplan produces alternative depictions 
of possible future scenarios and highlights 
opportunities and issues that are usually not visible 
through standard decision-making processes. 
The Masterplan allows to focus on possible 
disagreements and different visions related 
to each decision. Therefore, it gives a valuable 
contribution to mediation, to the benefit 
of the governance of our University.
Besides the internal level, the Masterplan aims 
to share, mediate and coordinate our University’s 
development projects with local stakeholders,  
also contributing to the quality and development 
of the urban, environmental, cultural, economic 
and social context.
Being a shared socio-technical process which aims 
to support Politecnico di Torino’s decision-making 
process, the Masterplan will be closely connected 
to the implementation and future reviews 
of this Strategic Plan.STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

62 63
STRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024IL CONTESTO DA CUI PARTIAMO
OBJECTIVES 
AND ACTIONS
⁄ FIRST MISSION: 
EDUCATION
⁄ SECOND MISSION: 
RESEARCH
⁄ THIRD MISSION: 
TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER  
AND KNOWLEDGE 
SHARING
⁄ STAFF POLICIES 

65 64The last section translates the contents 
of this Strategic Plan in terms of objectives 
and actions. The objectives deal 
with the three university missions,  
as well as with the staff policies of 
Politecnico di Torino; they have been quantified, 
when possible, to monitor their achievement. 
The actions, which actually represent 
tentative proposals, will lead to a coordinated 
programme of projects that will be further 
organized into an Action Plan and implemented 
in the close future. ⁄ FIRST MISSION: 
EDUCATIONOBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
TO INCREASE PROGRESSIVELY 
THE NUMBER OF OUR 
STUDENTS UP TO 40,000 UNITS.
ACTIONS
Development of proper teaching 
facilities (classrooms 
and laboratories); increase 
in the number of faculty 
members; a more efficient use 
of the competencies 
of our lecturers; engagement 
of qualified and complementary 
external lecturers; introduction 
of new Professional degree 
programmes; communication 
initiatives on educational 
contents; review of our educational 
contents and development 
of new pedagogical methods.OBJECTIVETO CONTINUE ATTRACTING 
A HIGH NUMBER 
OF INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
(>15%), WITH GREATER 
ATTENTION TO THE QUALITY  
OF THEIR BACKGROUND 
AND POTENTIAL IMPACT  
ON THE ITALIAN ECONOMY  
AND THE POSSIBLE 
INTERACTIONS WITH THEIR 
HOME COUNTRIES. 
ACTIONS
Careful selection of our target 
Countries; development 
of specific educational 
programmes for international 
students in close relation 
with industry; enhancement 
of the bilingual (Italian 
and English) course catalogue, 
especially for Master’s degree 
programmes.OBJECTIVETO BECOME AN ATTRACTIVE 
UNIVERSITY FOR STUDENTS 
FROM A GROWING NUMBER 
OF REGIONS, INCLUDING 
WESTERN COUNTRIES,  
IN ADDITION TO THE STUDENTS 
FROM OUR CURRENT 
INTERNATIONAL PARTNER 
COUNTRIES.
ACTIONS
Larger bilingual course catalogue; 
proposal for an up-to-date 
and student-centred education; 
increase in the quality, quantity 
and affordability of the services 
offered to our international 
students; better communication 
of the opportunities provided 
by the University; recruitment 
of staff with a higher level 
of English language competency 
also in the offices which provide 
student support (Offices 
of Student Services, other 
services, etc.); enhancement 
of our University’s reputation 
and positioning in international 
rankings; availability 
of high level research 
laboratories and facilities.OBJECTIVE
TO REDUCE STUDENTS’ 
AVERAGE GRADUATION DELAY 
BY AT LEAST 10%.
ACTIONS
Higher number of examination 
sessions; support of assistants 
who can help lecturers during 
examinations; assuring 
the achievement of teaching 
objectives and especially 
the development of competencies 
during the courses; introduction 
of new tools to support learning; 
evolution of the policies 
for the transition from Bachelor’s 
to Master’s level.OBJECTIVETO OPEN A UNIVERSITY 
TEACHING LAB, AS A TOOL  
FOR CONTINUOUS  
IMPROVEMENT  OF OUR FACULTY 
MEMBERS’ TEACHING SKILLS 
AND FOR TRAINING 
NEW LECTURERS.
ACTIONS
Annual awards assigned 
to lecturers who demonstrate 
strong commitment to teaching; 
systematisation of IT, multimedia 
and language support services 
in a common area; structured 
investments in new pedagogical 
and technical staff; investments 
in new teaching technologies 
and support for their 
implementation; introduction 
of incentives for faculty 
members, in the full respect 
of their teaching autonomy,  
who will make use 
of the Teaching Lab; 
dissemination of “good practices”; 
experimentation of innovative 
teaching methodologies 
which synergistically combine 
traditional teaching with digital 
and collaborative learning 
methods.OBJECTIVETO INNOVATE OUR PEDAGOGICAL 
APPROACH WITH THE AIM 
OF FOSTERING STUDENTS’ 
CRITICAL THINKING,  
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY , 
PROBLEM-SETTING 
AND PROBLEM-SOLVING 
ABILITIES, CAPACITY  
FOR INNOVATION AS WELL AS 
SOFT SKILLS. 
ACTIONS
Creation of teamwork-based 
courses involving students from 
different disciplines for:  
(I) problem-setting  
and problem-solving  
(Bachelor’s degree programmes); 
(II) innovation (Master’s degree 
programmes); (III) development 
of prototypes and innovative 
methods (student teams); 
recognition of the commitment  
of the lecturers who work  
with student teams as  
part of their teaching workload; 
engagement of entrepreneurs, 
managers, professionals,  
doctoral candidates, etc..  
who will provide tutoring services 
to working groups in problem 
setting/solving and innovation 
classes on the basis of ongoing 
pilot experiences  
(School of Entrepreneurship 
and Innovation with Agnelli 
Foundation, Contamination Lab, 
etc.); creation of a University 
Learning Centre, in cooperation 
with Cottino Foundation, 
dedicated to design-oriented 
education, with a surface  
of at least 2000 m2 for new 
classrooms; reconversion  
of spaces that are currently  
used for other purposes  
for student-centred teaching; 
construction of a “prototyping  
and student team house”  
hosting technicians and 
equipment to support the teams, 
also by creating a synergy  
with other actors; reinforcement 
of existing foreign language 
courses; introduction of soft skill 
courses (such as story-telling, 
communication…)  
in design-oriented classes;  
more focus on Final  
Projects/Theses and internships 
as a student-centred training tool.OBJECTIVESTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

66 67TO INCLUDE THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) 
OF THE UN 2030 AGENDA 
IN OUR CURRICULA. 
ACTIONS
Making our lecturers and students 
accountable for the 17 SDGs 
and more familiar with this topic; 
special focus on integration 
paths intended for students 
coming from emergent countries 
which are the main target 
of the SDGs; assessment 
of the real connections among 
the specific SDGs associated 
with each course, its contents 
and students’ progress. OBJECTIVE
TO RECOGNIZE THE 
IMPORTANCE OF HUMAN 
AND SOCIAL SCIENCES 
AND INTERDISCIPLINARITY  
AS AN EDUCATIONAL VALUE. 
ACTIONS
Creation of an interuniversity 
centre on human and social 
sciences; review of our course 
catalogue with the objective 
to add specific courses 
(currently on offer) 
and face-to-face lectures 
along with design-oriented 
classes; planning of educational 
programmes which can enhance 
interdisciplinarity and provide 
cross-pollination of STEM and SSH 
disciplines, by acknowledging 
their essential value 
for the progress of knowledge 
in the current evolving 
social context. OBJECTIVETO BOOST OPPORTUNITIES 
FOR OUR STUDENTS TO STUDY 
ABROAD AND TO ACHIEVE 
A BALANCE BETWEEN 
OUTGOING AND INCOMING 
STUDENTS AT THE SAME TIME.
ACTIONS
Fostering educational experiences 
abroad for our students; 
improvement of the quality of life 
for incoming students 
in order to make our University 
more attractive; updating 
of our bilingual course 
catalogue and promotion 
of our University abroad.OBJECTIVE
TO CREATE AN ALUMNI 
COMMUNITY PROACTIVELY 
COMMITTED TO OUR 
UNIVERSITY .
ACTIONS
Monitoring activity of our former 
students, independently 
from Alma Laurea (Italian 
Interuniversity Consortium for Job 
Placement) and development 
of our own database; 
investments in services 
to the benefit of our former 
students (social media tools, 
events, privileged opportunities 
for lifelong learning, etc.); 
turning our former students 
(especially those living abroad) 
into “antennas” for catching 
new opportunities to improve 
education (feedback 
from the labour market, student 
mentoring etc..) and for attracting 
funds to support research 
and technology transfer activities; 
incentives to retain and motivate 
our former students to invest 
in our University (donors).OBJECTIVEOBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
TO ENHANCE THE ACTIVITIES 
OF THE SPECIALIZING 
MASTER’S PROGRAMMES 
AND LIFELONG LEARNING 
SCHOOL AND TO INCREASE 
THE NUMBER OF ITS STUDENTS.
ACTIONS
Development of new Specializing 
Master’s programmes offered 
on the free market and new 
on-demand training activities 
or activities included in the School 
catalogue; increasing initiatives 
carried out in partnership 
with highly reputed experts.OBJECTIVE
TO RAISE THE AVERAGE 
PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE 
STUDENTS ENROLLED 
IN FIRST YEAR OF ENGINEERING 
PROGRAMMES TO OVER 35% 
WITHIN THE NEXT 6 YEARS; 
TO ACHIEVE FULL GENDER 
EQUALITY IN SOME DEGREE 
PROGRAMMES.  
ACTIONS
Involvement of middle and high 
school female students 
and related mentoring in 
cooperation with other local 
bodies and companies 
concerned about the gender 
issue; development of specific 
incentives during both 
the pre-enrolment 
and enrolment phases.OBJECTIVETO MAKE OUR DOCTORAL 
PROGRAMMES THE MAIN 
TOOL TO SUPPORT SCIENTIFIC 
RESEARCH AT POLITECNICO 
DI TORINO, RAISING THE 
CURRENT NUMBER OF DOCTORAL 
CANDIDATES BY AT LEAST 50%.
ACTIONS
Increase in the number 
of fully-funded doctoral positions, 
in particular related to agreements 
with companies, local authorities, 
research centres or international 
academic partners;  
better connections between 
Masters’ degree programmes 
and Doctoral programmes 
to promote the transition 
of students from one level 
to the other; continuous updating 
of educational programmes; 
support to high-quality applied 
research in collaboration 
with private companies 
(Industrial doctoral programmes) 
in order to improve employment 
opportunities for doctoral 
candidates outside academia 
and to increase the number 
of scholarships funded 
by companies; implementation 
of welcome services for Doctoral 
candidates coming from outside 
Piemonte (housing services 
or other welfare benefits); 
initiatives to distribute a fair 
number of doctoral positions 
to the several disciplines 
within the various Collegi; 
increase in the number of calls 
for application for Doctoral 
programmes during the year 
to provide better opportunities 
for admission; measures 
to facilitate the financial 
reporting of the costs incurred 
for doctoral candidates 
in funded projects; evaluation 
of the possibility to extend the 
duration of Doctoral programmes 
from 3 to 4 years;  
increase in the amount 
of the doctoral scholarship 
up to 1500 Euros/month aligning 
it to European standards.OBJECTIVE⁄ SECOND MISSION: 
RESEARCH
TO CREATE A UNIVERSITY 
DATABASE ON RESEARCH 
FOR QUICK, EFFECTIVE 
AND TRANSPARENT MAPPING 
OF OUR COMPETENCIES.
ACTIONS
Increase in the number 
of Open Science publications 
and patents; development 
of a database of scientific 
production, research projects, 
patents and all relevant 
information on research activities 
(contracts, doctoral theses, etc..); 
development of a dedicated 
software for retrieving information; 
use and systematic improvement 
of the database to ensure full 
dissemination of research 
opportunities in different fields.OBJECTIVETO INCREASE OUR UNIVERSITY 
SELF-FINANCING CAPACITY  
BY AT LEAST 50%.
ACTIONS
Strategic and operational review 
of the contract templates 
with companies; increase 
in the number of industrial 
partnerships and their specific 
financial value by sharing common 
medium/long-term objectives; 
incentives to maximize the criteria 
for the allocation of funds 
from the Fondo di Funzionamento 
Ordinario (FFO) – National Funding 
for Italian Universities - 
with particular attention 
to rewarding criteria; more support 
during the drafting of project 
proposals in response 
to competitive calls; creation 
of a hub of Politecnico di Torino 
in Brussels to influence EU 
research funding policies 
and to provide better information 
on funding opportunities 
to our faculty members;  
full implementation 
of the interdepartmental 
laboratories plan of our University 
and continuous monitoring 
of their activities; strengthening 
of the existing research 
infrastructures, also shared 
with other local bodies 
(e.g. universities, other research 
centres) and creation of new ones; 
adoption of a more flexible 
negotiating stance on intellectual 
property rights; renovation 
of our research laboratories 
to make them safer and to equip 
them with modern devices; 
dissemination of our University 
research activities through 
a specific web portal and creation 
of an appealing institutional 
showroom for visitors; creation 
of an administrative unit in charge 
of data management for strategic 
evaluations; specific bootstrap 
funding to raise resources 
for emerging issues.OBJECTIVESTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

68 69TO HIRE NEW FACULTY 
MEMBERS TO FOSTER 
THE QUALITY OF RESEARCH,  
BY PAYING PARTICULAR 
ATTENTION TO THE RECRUITMENT  
OF PERSONNEL  
WITH COMPETENCIES 
THAT ARE COMPLEMENTARY 
TO THOSE ALREADY EXISTING 
WITHIN OUR UNIVERSITY .
ACTIONS
Monitoring of the quality 
of newly recruited staff through 
the criteria in use for the FFO 
reward amount, and with an eye 
to the definition of our future 
recruitment plans; definition 
and updating of a strategic plan 
on research which should identify 
new needs and which 
competencies are most required; 
boosting our research 
competencies through a part 
of the University budget 
strategically managed by the 
Board of Governors; attracting 
talented researchers also 
with the support of our partner 
foundations (starting grants, 
salary adjustments, family 
packages, etc.).OBJECTIVE
TO WORK TOWARDS 
AN INCREASING QUALITY  
OF RESEARCH. 
ACTIONS
Review of the internal criteria 
for assessing scientific production, 
inspired by quality rather than 
by mere quantity; implementation 
of a sound peer review system 
for powerful and transparent 
assessment of scientific 
production and proposals,  
which should not be limited 
to mere bibliometric criteria.OBJECTIVETO PROMOTE THE AGGREGATION 
OF SINGLE RESEARCHERS 
AND RESEARCH GROUPS,  
ALSO AT AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL  
LEVEL, ON CURIOSITY DRIVEN 
PROJECTS, AS WELL AS 
ON RESEARCH TOPICS 
OF GREAT VISIBILITY  
AND IMPACT STILL UNEXPLORED 
IN OUR UNIVERSITY . 
ACTIONS
Fostering the aggregation 
of departmental 
or interdepartmental groups 
who work on emerging research 
topics by leveraging on basic 
research grants and by providing 
support to new 
Interdepartmental centres.OBJECTIVE
TO ORIENT INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RESEARCH TOWARDS 
THE ACHIEVEMENT  
OF THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
OF THE UN 2030 AGENDA. 
ACTIONS
Mapping of our scientific activity 
and capacity to address projects 
and publications towards 
the global and social challenges 
included in the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals 
and the related Horizon Europe’s 
five priority clusters. OBJECTIVEOBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
TO ENHANCE OUR CAPACITY  
TO GENERATE NEW INTELLECTUAL  
PROPERTY BY AT LEAST 50%.
ACTIONS
Raising awareness 
on the importance of protecting 
intellectual property  
or our researchers; recognition 
of the patents achieved 
by each researcher for academic 
career progression; improved 
administrative and legal support 
to researchers during patent 
drafting.OBJECTIVE
TO STRENGTHEN THE GROWTH 
POTENTIAL OF OUR SPIN-OFFS 
WITH THE AIM OF TRIPLING 
THEIR CAPACITY TO RAISE EQUITY  
FUNDING AND TO GENERATE 
EMPLOYMENT.
ACTIONS
Expansion of the I3P incubator; 
involvement of Links Innovation; 
strengthening connections 
with stakeholders 
from the financial sector 
and venture capital funds.OBJECTIVETO ENCOURAGE 
THE DEVELOPMENT  
OF SECTORIAL INNOVATION 
VALUE CHAINS TO PROMOTE 
THE IDENTITY AND CREDIBILITY  
OF OUR TERRITORY 
FOR ATTRACTING NEW 
INVESTMENTS 
AND BUSINESSES.
ACTIONS
In cooperation with external 
actors (e.g. foundations,  
local or national bodies, business 
associations, etc.), creation 
of an “innovation district” 
which should become the point 
of convergence for training 
activities, interdisciplinary 
and applied research, technology 
transfer, intellectual property 
management, creation 
of start-ups and services 
to companies, spaces for 
companies and start-ups; 
extension of the model which 
is currently applied to the energy 
supply chain (Energy Centre) 
to other supply chains, such 
as digital transition (e.g. Digital 
Revolution House), industry 
4.0 (Industry 4.0 Competence 
Centre), space economy, circular 
economy, territorial planning, 
urban and territorial structures 
and infrastructures, etc.OBJECTIVETO TRAIN A GROWING NUMBER 
OF STUDENTS IN INNOVATION 
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
AND TO INVOLVE AT LEAST 25% 
OF OUR STUDENTS IN THESE 
EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES.
ACTIONS
Cross-pollination of our educational 
programmes with new contents 
on entrepreneurship 
and innovation, by including 
problem setting/solving, human 
and social sciences,  
learning-by-doing, soft skills; 
involvement of entrepreneurs, 
start-up founders 
and professionals 
from the innovation sector 
who will provide their views 
and lead project work groups; 
greater collaboration in the field 
of entrepreneurship 
and training in innovation 
(e.g. School of Entrepreneurship 
and Innovation with Agnelli 
Foundation).OBJECTIVE
TO BOOST OUR COMPETENCIES 
IN HUMAN AND SOCIAL 
SCIENCES TO THE BENEFIT  
OF OUR EDUCATION, RESEARCH 
AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER 
ACTIVITIES.
ACTIONS
Creation of an interuniversity 
Board for Science, Technology 
and Society; establishment 
of staff units who will provide 
support to strategic decisions, 
design and drafting of new project 
ideas (technical-economic 
feasibility studies, ethical-legal 
evaluations, social impact studies, 
dissemination actions, etc.).OBJECTIVE⁄ THIRD MISSION: 
TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFER  
AND KNOWLEDGE 
SHARINGSTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

70 71TO DEVELOP NEW MODELS 
FOR TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER 
IN THE FIELD OF ARCHITECTURE,  
PLANNING AND DESIGN.
ACTIONS
Engagement 
of the Interdepartmental Centres; 
enhancement of previous 
experiences in the field of relations 
with Public Administrations; 
launch of a brain-storming 
programme on territorial 
and urban problems with public 
discussions on important 
social issues; evaluation 
on the establishment 
of an interdepartmental 
Design Centre that will support 
education, businesses 
and departments and foster 
the transition from newly 
developed technologies into 
innovative products and services.OBJECTIVE
TO IMPROVE OUR CAPACITY  
OF ADDRESSING 
THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
OF THE UN 2030 AGENDA. 
ACTIONS
Strengthening of our 
Green Team and Living Lab;  
institutionalization of the 
University Sustainability 
Weeks; periodic reporting 
on the education, research and third 
mission activities developed 
by our community with reference 
to the UN 2030 Agenda framework.OBJECTIVETO CREATE A SERIE 
OF POLYTECHNICAL EVENTS.
ACTIONS
Creation of a single control room 
that will manage all cultural 
and communication activities, 
supported by a new administrative 
unit and a manager; investments 
in the development of professional 
skills which are not currently 
available within our University; 
planning and launch of a flagship 
event: the Festival of Technology; 
organisation of other cultural 
events: welcome ceremony 
for first-year students; 
graduation ceremony 
with the participation of prominent 
members of industry, science 
or society in the role of keynote 
guests; promotion of University 
awards for faculty members; 
introduction of a series 
of polytechnical Lectures dedicated 
to renowned personalities 
from our history; periodic meetings 
organized by our University 
at Circolo dei Lettori 
(Readers Club); participation 
in major events of our city, etc.OBJECTIVE
TO ESTABLISH A CULTURAL 
CENTRE INSIDE THE CITTADELLA 
POLITECNICA AS A SYMBOL  
OF OUR CITY , OPEN ALSO 
IN THE EVENING, WHERE PEOPLE  
CAN MEET AND EXCHANGE VIEWS.
ACTIONS
Identification of a possible location 
and design for the Cultural Centre; 
inside the Centre, creation 
of a library which collects 
the most important publications 
for Bachelor’s and Master’s 
students, as well as for society 
in general; inside the Centre, 
creation of a permanent 
University museum 
with a showroom displaying 
our technologies to visitors 
“at a glance”; creation of spaces 
for our students (clubhouse 
for celebrations, spaces 
for creativity and student 
societies, study rooms, etc.); 
creation of spaces for cultural 
events (e.g. a hall for book 
presentations; an interfaith 
prayer and meditation room, etc.). OBJECTIVETO DEFINE A LONG-TERM,  
FARSIGHTED AND TRANSPARENT  
PLAN FOR OUR TAB STAFF  
(TECHNICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE  
STAFF AND LIBRARIANS),  
BY LIMITING THE EXTENSIVE 
USE OF TEMPORARY CONTRACTS.
ACTIONS
Establishment of a Board in charge 
to draft a staff planning 
that will ensure process 
transparency; limitation 
of the number of temporary 
positions; in the vast majority 
of cases, more opportunities 
for permanent employment, 
unless alternative 
job placements are possible;  
new training courses related 
to career development, seniority 
and professional environment; 
introduction of planned 
and transparent labour mobility.OBJECTIVE
TO BRING THE TOTAL NUMBER 
OF TEACHING AND RESEARCH 
STAFF (FIXED-TERM 
RESEARCHERS, PERMANENT 
RESEARCHERS, ASSOCIATE 
AND FULL PROFESSORS) 
TO ABOUT ONE THOUSAND UNITS.
ACTIONS
Search for external funding, 
additional to turnover, to open new 
positions for tenured professors 
and fixed-term researchers 
(see art. 18, p. 3, L. 240/10); 
dialogue with the Italian 
Government to negotiate 
and adopt appropriate tools 
to curb the negative effects 
of the turnover policy; adoption 
of new extraordinary recruitment 
plans to invest in fixed-term 
researchers. OBJECTIVE⁄ STAFF POLICIESOBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
TO SPEED UP CAREER 
PROGRESSION 
OF THE REMAINING STAFF  
IN “PERMANENT 
RESEARCHERS” POSITION. 
ACTIONS
Priority investments in career 
progression for permanent 
researchers who achieved 
the National Scientific 
Qualification (ASN).OBJECTIVE
TO REBALANCE THE RATIO 
BETWEEN FULL AND ASSOCIATE 
PROFESSORS.
ACTIONS
Finding additional resources 
for recruiting fixed-term 
researchers in order to make 
the POMs (Staff Recruitment 
Funds for Italian Universities) 
available for full professor 
positions with the aim of boosting 
career opportunities for associate 
professors; direct investments 
in new positions for full professors 
from other Universities, especially 
in disciplinary fields with 
an excessive student-to-faculty 
ratio or to fill the need 
for new competencies required 
by education and interdisciplinary 
research.OBJECTIVETO FOSTER THE CONDITIONS 
FOR A 50% REDUCTION 
IN THE GENDER GAP BETWEEN 
CANDIDATES COMPETING 
FOR ACADEMIC POSITIONS.
ACTIONS
Implementation of a Gender 
Report for developing a plan 
of targeted policies; strengthening  
of the multidimensional nature 
of the evaluation of candidates 
in public open competitions; 
adoption of wider time margins 
(1.5 years) for measuring 
the impact of maternity leave 
and other types of leaves 
on scientific productivity; 
implementation of monitoring 
systems to evaluate 
the effectiveness of these 
measures on a continuous basis.OBJECTIVE
TO MONITOR AND TO IMPROVE 
THE QUALITY OF LIFE 
IN THE WORKPLACE,  
THE MOTIVATION 
AND PROFESSIONAL 
SATISFACTION OF THOSE 
WHO WORK AT  
POLITECNICO DI TORINO.
ACTIONS
Development of a sustainable 
campus to improve the quality 
of life; welfare and cultural 
actions; rationalisation 
of workloads; initiatives 
for a proactive involvement 
of those who feel marginalised 
and activities to support those 
who feel “burned out”; training 
opportunities in managerial 
skills for lecturers and TAB 
staff; periodic survey of users’ 
satisfaction.OBJECTIVESTRATEGIC PLAN 2018—2024

72Banca d’Italia,  
Il gap innovativo nel Sistema produttivo italiano: 
radici e possibili rimedi, QEF 121 (2012)
Bruno Pellegrino B., Luigi Zingales L.,  
Diagnosing the Italian disease,  
Working Paper Series no. 14,  
University of Chicago Booth School 
of Business (2017)
Etzkowitz H.,  
Innovation lodestar: the entrepreneurial university 
in a stellar knowledge firmament,  
Technological forecasting 
and social change, 123 (2017)
EU Regional Innovation Scoreboard (2017)
Hicks D., Wouters P ., Waltman L., de Rijcke S., Rafols I.,  
Bibliometrics: The Leiden Manifesto 
for research metrics, Nature, 520, 7548 (2015)
Istat, Il futuro demografico del Paese (2018)
Netval, XIV Rapporto (2018)
OECD, Education at a glance (2018)
OECD, Science, Technology 
and Innovation Outlook (2017)
OECD, The future of education and skills 
– Education 2030 (2018)
THE – World Academic Summit, Future perfect: 
what will universities look like in 2030? (2015)
Tucci C., Il Sole 24Ore, 30 Novembre 2017
U.N., The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, A/RES/70/1 (2015)
Van Alstyne M., Parker G., Choudary S.,  
Pipelines, platforms and the new rules of strategy, 
Harvard Business Review (2016)
World Economic Forum,  
The global risks report (2017)
XIX Rapporto “Giorgio Rota” su Torino (2018)
XVIII Rapporto “Giorgio Rota” su Torino (2017)PRINCIPAL BIBLIOGRAPHY  
AND WEBLIOGRAPHY


@ POLITECNICO DI TORINO - JANUARY 2019
produced by
CORPORATE IMAGE OFFICE
graphic design
FIONDA
Development, implementation and updating 
of the website www.pianostrategico.polito.it/en
INTERNET PORTALS AND CMS OFFICE
MEDIA RELATIONS OFFICE
photos
POLITECNICO DI TORINO ARCHIVES
MICHELE D’OTTAVIO
SIMONA RIZZO
printed by
LA TERRA PROMESSA
printed in
JANUARY 2019

