1 University of Macau  Five-Y ear Development Plan 
 (Academic Y ears 2021/22 – 2025/26)  
 
(Outline)  
 
Vision  
The University of Macau  (UM) wishes to position itself as a university with firm roots in Macao, 
while at the same time being committed to participating in the development of the Greater Bay 
Area. UM hopes to integrate itself in to national development while reaching out to the world. 
Through quality student -centred education, key resea rch subjects with international impact , and a 
high standard of community services, it aspires to become an internationally recognised university 
of excellence.  
 
Mission  
The University of Macau endeavours to leverage its uniqueness and strengths, as highlighted by a 
learning environment where Chinese culture plays a major role and diverse cultures coexist , and 
by a system of whole -person education underpinned by faculties and residential colleges in an 
international education setup. The university is committed to:  
- Upholding the university motto - Humanity, Integrity, Propriety, Wisdom and Sincerity;  
- Cultivating citizens with innovative abilities who exhibit love for their home country, possess 
global perspectives and competitiveness , and shoulder social responsibilities necessary for 
the development of Macao, the nation and beyond ; 
- Promoting academic research and industry -academia -research cooperation to facilitate 
sustainable socio -economic development  of Macao and support the develo pment of the 
Guangdong -Hong Kong -Macao Greater Bay Area, thus serving the nation and humanity at 
large;  
- Being firmly rooted in Macao, serving and enriching the local community at multiple levels 
and on all fronts.  
 
Overall Development Objectives  
 Optimise  the “4-in-1” collaborative education model to improve the quality of talent 
cultivation;  
 Improve the standards of research innovation and produce outcomes with important academic 
impacts and application values in various areas;  
 Steadily consolidate UM ca pabilities to assist the Macao SAR to achieve its development 
positioning, as well as to establish and secure its role as a centre for technological innovation 
and talent cultivation in the Greater Bay Area;  
 Gather leading talents to form top academic team s and  to raise the level of disciplinary 
development;  
2  Strive to become a comprehensive university with its own features and influence in the 
mainland and globally, and to steadily boost its international reputation.  
 
Overall Development Strategy  
 The university has implemented the “R.I.S.E.”  strategy, namely “Relevance”, “Impact”, 
“Significance” and “Excellence” . These will enable the university to achieve an overall 
improvement in the new era.  
- Relevance : Being rooted in Macao, taking part in the devel opment of the Greater Bay Area, 
integrating into the  nation and going international ; 
- Impact : Amplifying UM’s academic impact in the world and contributions to the community ; 
- Significance : Cementing the pursuit of its mission and  giving full play to its strengths and 
features ; 
- Excellence : Benchmarking with the world’s top universities, and establishing a prestigious 
higher education hub . 
 
Strategy and Measures  
1. Enhancing the High -Level T alent Nurturing  System  
Appropriately E xpanding the Student Body 
 In the next five years, UM’s total enrolment  will increase from the current about 12,000 to 
about  17,000 students. The number of postgraduate students is also expected to grow steadily 
based on the demands of society, and the undergraduate enrolment will remain largely stable.  
 UM will also enlarge  the intake of non -local students, targeting mostly candidates from the 
mainland in particular the Greater Bay Area, and the Southeast Asian countries, the 
Portuguese -speaking countrie s, and the countries and regions along the Belt and Road 
Initiative.  
 
Providing  High-Quality Undergraduate Education  
 Deepening the “4-in-1” integrated education model. Deepening  the whole -person education  
and performing the advantages  of collaborative education between residential colleges and 
faculties from four dimensions, namely Discipline -Specific Education, General Education, 
Research & Internship, and Community & Peer E ducation . To nurture students with seven 
competencies , namely responsible citize nship, global competitiveness, knowledge 
assimilation, teamwork and collaboration, service and leadership, cultural engagement and 
healthy lifestyle.  
 
Enhancing Postgraduate Education  
3  For Master’s students, UM w ill establish more taught programmes based on  market demand, 
to serve th e strategic needs of the nation and the society , and promote the education that 
combines research and application ;  
 For PhD students, UM will focus on supporting major research topics , and nurturing talent s 
in the key areas set o ut in  the university’s  strategic research layout . UM will strength en 
collaboration s with other higher education institutions and make use of high -level joint 
training programmes.  
 
Improving the Layout and Development of D isciplines and Subject s 
 Disciplines Development Goals  
- UM will strive to maintain the number of subjects ranked top 1% in the Essentia l Science 
Indicators (ESI), and  increase  that number by the academic year 2025/26.  
- UM will promote cross -disciplinary collaboration s, and develop disciplines with regional 
characteristics and advantages to optimise  the curricular structure.  
- By developing cross -disciplinary platforms, UM aims  to pool resources for the development 
of interdisciplinary studies to form a curricular system w here various fields of study support 
each other in collaborative growth.  
 Arts and Humanities  
- UM will explore, consolidate and enhance existing resources and advantages, with an 
emphasis o n iconic disciplines including Literature, History, Philosophy, L inguistics,  Studies 
of Foreign L anguages such as Portu guese, English and Japanese, their associated cultures and 
compa rative cultural studies, Macao Law, Global Law, Education, Sociology, Psychology, 
Public Administration, Economics, Communication, Managem ent and Marketing, 
Accounting and Information Management, F inanc e and Business Economics, Integrated 
Resorts and Tourism Management, Arts and Design, and Creative C ulture.  
- UM is  planning  to establish  the Department of Art s and Design, which will offer Master’s 
and Doctoral programmes in Fine A rts. UM  is also planning to establish a Bachelor ’s 
programme  in Chinese Law and Global Law (English -taught), a Master ’s programme in 
Philosophy and Religious S tudies, and more  cross -disciplinary courses in  Humanitie s and 
Social S cience s. 
 Science, Engineering and Medicine  
- UM will enhance overall standards of the dis ciplines including Civil and Environmental 
Enginee ring, E lectrical and Computer Engineering, Electromechanical Engineering, 
Computer and Information Sciences, Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, Materials Science, 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Biomedical Sciences, Medicinal Science, Medicinal 
Administrati on, and Public H ealth . UM also aims to integ rate resources in the field of Health 
Sciences for the establishment of the Department of Biomedical Sciences, the Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences and the Department of Public Health and Medicinal Administration.  
- UM plans to launch new disciplines in Advanced Materials and Marine Science and 
Engineering.  The university  will also launch a Bachelor degree  programme  in Pharmaceutical 
4 Sciences as well as M aster’s programmes in Global Public Health, Internet of Things, 
Robotics and Unmanned S ystems, Coastal and Environmental Engineering.  
 Interdisciplinary Development  
- UM will turn to areas where it holds advantages in research c apabilities for integration of 
Humanities and S cience to develop interdisciplinary  subjects. These areas include Cognitive 
and Brain Sciences, Data S cience, AI and Robotics, Arts and Design, Fintech, and Smart 
Tourism. UM also plans to launch a M aster ’s programme in Cognitive N euroscience.  
 
2. Promoting a Collaborative, Open and Innovative Strategic Layout for 
Research  
 UM will implement the  “P.I.C.K. ” strategy for research  development : Problem Orientation, 
Interdisciplinary Interaction, Collaborative Innovation, Knowledge Translation.  
 A “3+3+3+3” strategic layout model : in its future research development, UM aims to 
highlight its unique features and strengths, scale new heights and strengthen co operation. 
Taking  a problem -oriented approach, UM  will support, in particular, disciplines that showcase 
local characteristics and respond to global trends. A strategic layout will be devised based on 
the “3+3+3+3 ” model. The university will r einforce the work of the three State Key 
Laborat ories in the fields of Chinese Medicine, M icroelectron ics and Internet of Things for 
Smart C ity, and develop three research platforms in emerging fields, namely the Ministry of 
Education Frontiers Science Cen tre for Precision Oncology, the Ministry of Education Joint 
Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic and Synthetic Chemistry and th e Centre for Regional Oceans. 
UM will establish three interdisciplinary resea rch platforms in the fields of Artificial 
Intelligence, Da ta Science and Cognitive and Brain S ciences, and strengthen the role of the 
Institute of Collaborative Innovation in establishing  links and collaboration s among  the 
realms of Science and Technology , Humanities and Social S cienc es. The university  will also 
develop three Humanities and Social S ciences research platforms, namely the Centre for 
Macau Studies, the Asia -Pacific Academy of Economics and Management and the Institute 
of Advanced Studies in Humanities and Social Sciences.  
 Key National and Regional Research Platforms  
- National level, including three State Key L aboratories (Chinese Medicine, M icroelectron ics 
and Internet of Things for Smart C ity) to facilitate the development of the State Key 
Laboratories, Ministry of Education Frontiers Science Centre for Precision Oncology, 
Ministry of Education Joint Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic and Synthetic Chemistry, 
National Centre for Applied Mathematics in Macao, and Ministry of E ducation Key R esearch 
Bases of Humanities and Social S ciences (Cen tre for Constitutional Law and Basic Law 
Studies, Education Research Centre, Centre for Chinese History and Culture, etc).  
- Regional level, including five joint laboratories with the Chinese Academy of Sciences ( Brain 
and Cognitive Sciences, Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Aerospace I nformation, 
Oceanology and C ancer), as well as multiple joint platforms in  Guangdong an d Hong Kong , 
and Macao Centre for Research and Development in Chinese Medicine .  
 
3. Building the “5 -in-1” Research Result Transfer  System  
5  UM will fully e xplore the leading role of its S tate Key L aboratories and focus on key 
industries such as the wider healthcare industry with Chinese medicine R&D as the starting 
point, and the high -tech industry  and other key industries . The university will innovate its 
industry -academia -research system, optimise mechanisms for intensive integration of these 
three elements, and strive to blaze a trail for the commercialisation of research results.  
 UM is actively constructing and improving the “5-in-1” system for research innovation and 
result transfer, by consolidating and building a high -level industry -academia -research 
platform incorporating the dimensions of innovation, service, management, cultivation and 
practice. Emphasis will be put on i mproving the quality and impact of the research 
achievements, systematically promoting technological innovation and research result transfer.  
- Industry -Academia -Research Innovation Platform : UM will capitalise on various large -scale 
research platforms to pr omote industry -academia -research innovation , and create research 
outcomes that are helpful to promote Macao’s moderate economic diversification.  
- Industry -Academia -Research Service Platform: UM will optimise t he research service system, 
and continuingly provide professional an d technological services to society from various 
areas. UM plans to establish the Macao Centre for Chinese Medicine Testing, build the UM 
Clinical Analysis Laboratory, performing the role of UMCERT Engineering Research and 
Testing Li mited to provide professional infrastructure services to Macao.  
- Industry -Academia -Research Management Platform : UM will further enforce its regulations 
and policies related to IP management , and UM manages its IP rights and industrialisation  
through UMTec  Limited , and UM aims to systematically foster technolog ical innovation 
teams and start -ups for Macao . 
- Industry -Academia -Research Cultivation Platform : UM will continue to develop  the National  
Co-Working Space, and nurture  more innovative and entrepreneuri al talents, bringing in more 
projects with potential s and matching them with the industry . 
- Industry -Academia -Research Implementation Platform : UM will continue to construct  the 
UM Demonstration Base for Industry -Academia -Research Cooperation in Hengqin , and other 
important research platforms in the Greater Bay Area.  UM will  serve  the industrial 
development needs of Macao and the Cooperation Zone,  and conduct  high standard Industry -
Academic -Research Cooperation with enterprises and higher education institutions on the 
mainland .  
 
4. Developing Quality and Efficient International Cooperation Networks  
 UM will implement  the “4S” internationalisation strategy : namely “Strategic, Substantial, 
Specific and Sustainable ”, so to form a strategic framework for international development to 
consolidate and enhance its international characteristics.  
 Expanding Global Strategic Partnership Networks  
- UM will deepen  long-term cooperation with higher education institutions in the Portuguese -
speaking countries, and UM will play a bridging role  to promote  collaborations among  the 
mainland, Macao and the Portuguese -speaking countries.  
6 - UM will enhance  partnerships with h igher education institutions in  English -speaking 
countries.  
- UM will increase  overseas publicity, reinforce and expand  international  student recruitment, 
and take  the Southeast Asian countries, the Portuguese -speaking countries,  and the countries 
and regions alo ng the Belt and Road Initiative as important sources of international students.  
 Strengthening  Exchange s and Cooperation with the Mainland  
- UM will a ctively participat e in collaborative development of higher education in the Greater 
Bay Area through major higher education alliances and platforms . 
- UM will strengthen  its cooperation network with first -class universities in the mainland.  
- UM will offer  more dual degree and joint programmes, and develop  branded and featured 
programmes . 
 
5. Developing Platforms to Serve Local Community  
 UM will develop  a community  service system that centr es on advancing innovative research 
concerning  the “One Country, Two Systems”  principle , cultivating talents demanded by 
social development , developing  high-level  think -tanks , facilitating Macao’s development in 
accordance with its positioning, and promoting the sharing of resources. The university will 
organically combine the goal of becoming a university of excellence with  the enhancement 
of its function in community service. Serving the local  community is the fundamental 
responsibility of UM. Following  national development strategies , the university  will extend 
the scope of its community services to increase its interaction wi th society.  
- UM will conduct  innovative  research concerning the “One Country, Two Systems”  principle , 
and provide  intellectual support to so cial development . 
- UM will provide quality resources in teaching and research for the local community, and offer  
support and service for the education promotion of “Love the Nation, Love Macao” in Macao . 
- UM will nurture more  professionals for the Macao SAR government . 
- UM will continually provide  high-end training courses for the community . 
- UM will continually nurtur e high-level t ourism management professionals to support smart 
tourism  development . 
- UM will nurture more Portuguese bilingual and legal talent s. 
- UM will create a Chinese cultural base for research and promotion with features o f brand and 
influence in the Greater Bay Area.  
- UM will assist the Macao SAR government to compile the Macao Chronicles . 
- UM will develop  a base of education in technology innovation  for Macao . 
- UM will implement  resource sharing and p roactivenes s in community s ervices . 
 
7 Support s and Assurance s 
 Developing High -standard Teams of Talents  
- UM will implement the “5A”  strategy, based on the concept of “ making our work 
environment pleasant for current staff  members , and attractive for prospective ones”. This 
strategy comprises “Appreciate”, “Agglomerate”, “Advance”, “Attract” and “Appropriate” . 
UM will strive to develop a dynamic faculty with a worldwide academic reputation, 
exceptional teaching capability  and high moral integrity.  
 Optimising the Management and Efficiency of Adm inistration  
- UM will actively expand  the sources of the university ’s revenues , and strengthen  the financial 
self-reliance of the university . 
- UM will digitise the management of administrative documents to support the Macao SAR 
government’s electronic governance.  
- UM will gradually implement the reform of the public university administrative system in 
accordance with the Macao SAR government . 
 Promoting Campus D evelopment Key Projects  
- UM will carry out  construction and fitting -out works  of key housing projects , and provide  a 
solid support for UM’s future development . 
- UM will progressively  conduct construction  and fitting -out works on multiple laboratories  
and research facilities, and increase  the numbers of teachi ng facilities and centres based  on 
development needs, and upgrad e current laboratories and classroom s. 
 Optimising the Planning and Use of University Space and Facilities  
- UM will re -examine the usage of space and facilities, and devise a master plan for their 
allocation and utilisation based on the university’s future development.  
 Exploring development opportunities in the Cooperation Zone  
- UM will continue to improve the teaching and research facilities in the ZUMRI, so to enhance 
its teaching and research standard.  
- UM will strengthen the collaboration of Industry -Academia -Research, promote  the transfer 
of research achievements, and serve  the development of the Cooperation Zone . 
- UM will explore the possibilities of bringing more learning, research and living opportunities 
for the university’s staff members  and students.  
 
