Engaged, 
Empowered,  
Making a 
Difference
Te Whare Wānanga o Waitaha 
University of Canterbury  
Strategic Vision 2020 to 2030TANGATA TŪ, 
TANGATA ORA
2   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030
Cultural narrative 
The design is Makaurangi, a 
fingerprint, the three elements 
are representative of the three 
baskets of knowledge (Ngā  
Kete e Toru) with the lines and 
koru are a symbol of mana and 
mana whenua as the designs  
stem from traditional carving  
and kowhaiwhai designs.
The three intertwining motifs 
are reference to the generations 
of communities engaged with 
the University and wealth of 
knowledge shared in the past, 
present and future.
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   3
Message from the Chancellor 4
Message from Ūpoko o Ngāi Tūāhuriri 5
Introduction from the Vice-Chancellor 7
Our Changing Context and History 8
Our Vision and Mission 12
UC as an Engaged University 14
Internationalisation – Locally Engaged, Globally Networked 18
Education – Accessible, Flexible, Future Focused 22
Research – Impact in a Changing World 26
People – Nurturing Staff, Thriving Students 30
Organisational Efficacy 34
Environmentally Sustainable 40Contents

4   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Message from 
the Chancellor
The University 
of Canterbury 
has experienced 
challenges of both an 
environmental and 
human nature that 
puts it in a unique 
position to contribute 
to the world. 
We are at a turning point in the 
history of Te Whare Wānanga 
o Waitaha | University of 
Canterbury (UC) as we return to 
an undistracted focus on learning, 
teaching and research after 
some years of post-earthquake 
disruption and reconstruction. 
Building on our University’s strong 
global reputation, this Strategic 
Vision sets a clear direction for 
UC to build on nearly 150 years 
of engagement with its local, 
regional and global communities 
to become even more connected 
and purposeful in supporting a 
thriving world. 
This key theme of engagement 
is threaded through the strategy 
as a whole, touching on our commitment to Te Tiriti o Waitangi | 
Treaty of Waitangi; our approach 
to locally and globally relevant 
education and research; our 
international disposition; our 
people; and our approach  
to sustainability.
The foundations for this position of 
engagement with our communities 
is our commitment to bicultural 
confidence and competence 
in an intercultural world, and to 
sustainable development. We will 
contribute our part in making New 
Zealand and the world sustainable 
– whether it be economic, social or 
financial sustainability. 
Our strategy is the result of 
extensive consultation and 
dialogue with our faculty, 
professional staff, and student 
body. This feedback has 
supported our aim to work with 
an ethos of excellence, relevance, 
impact and working as one or 
kotahitanga. The UC Council 
looks forward to supporting our 
students and staff in consolidating 
our place as a globally recognised, 
comprehensive, research-
intensive university delivering 
world class education. Building on this University’s 
strong global reputation, we 
are ready to strengthen our 
commitment and engagement 
with our region in the world  
for good.
Ms Sue McCormack
Tumu Kaunihera Chancellor

University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   5Message from Ūpoko 
o Ngāi Tūāhuriri
Ngāi T ahu appreciates the core values that underpin the 
University’ s teaching of open contestable knowledge.
Ngāi Tahu has always understood 
the relationship between 
knowledge, social cohesion and 
progress, and our relationship 
with the University is based on 
that understanding. 
If we track the relationship that 
Ngāi Tahu has developed with 
our city and province over the 
last thirty years, it is not difficult to 
assess where the trajectory of this 
relationship will go in the future 
– and just as importantly where 
the University of Canterbury will 
figure. Between 1990 and 2018, 
Ngāi Tahu membership grew 
from 3000 to 61, 000. Likewise, 
individual equity was projected 
to have grown from $81 per 
member to $27, 000. On a wider 
front, Ngāi Tahu sub-divisions at 
Wigram, Preston’s Road, Karamū 
and Te Whāriki (Lincoln) and 
its commercial developments 
at Tower Junction, Pita Te Hori 
Centre and elsewhere are 
part and parcel of the regional 
economy. It would be difficult to 
imagine Ngāi Tahu Christchurch 
without the Ngāi Tahu investment after the decade of disasters we 
have faced. Canterbury is simply 
too important to the Ngāi Tahu 
economy and the reverse applies. 
The future is not absolute but we 
can see the direction. Our tribal 
population is predicted to grow 
by 80% by 2040 and by 2038 
the workforce will have expanded 
by 50%. This is why UC is 
important because the focus for 
this generation will be based on 
transferable skills and not jobs – 
at least in the traditional sense. 
Ngāi Tahu appreciates the 
core values that underpin the 
University of Canterbury and the 
teaching of open contestable 
knowledge. Knowledge, its 
creation, production and 
distribution within an open 
society that has learnt to be 
tolerant and appreciative of 
difference is why Ngāi Tahu 
supports this University.  
Together the two institutions  
will be able to provide continuing 
and increasing economic and 
talent development. Our tribal population is 
predicted to grow by 80%  
by 2040 and by 2038  
the workforce will have  
expanded by 50%.
Dr Te Maire Tau
Ūpoko o Ngāi Tūāhuriri

6   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Education
Accessible, 
Flexible, Future 
Focused 
Research
Impact in a 
Changing World
People
Nurturing Staff,  
Thriving StudentsEngagement
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   7Introduction from 
the Vice-Chancellor
Professor Cheryl de la Rey
Tumu Whakarae Vice-ChancellorNever has a university been better placed to lead 
regional development while continuing to make a 
strong mark on the world stage.
Perhaps more so than most, 
Te Whare Wānanga o Waitaha 
University of Canterbury (UC) is 
testimony to the resilience and 
responsiveness of universities. 
Following major earthquakes 
in September 2010, February 
2011, and then a series of 
aftershocks, UC had to embark 
on an extraordinary journey of 
recovery. Having recovered from 
these setbacks, UC is now poised 
to focus wholeheartedly on its 
academic mission and ensure 
that we set the course for our 
long-term future in a twenty-first 
century world that is challenging, 
dynamic and complex. 
As a university we have 
global impact – whether it be 
engineering earthquake resistant 
buildings used throughout the 
world, or contributing to the 
United Nations Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change. This 
Strategic Vision further focuses 
our efforts to create meaningful 
local and global impact. The development of this strategy 
has been an extensive process 
of consultation, discussion 
and debate, primarily with an 
academic focus. It included 
participation from the wider 
University community and our 
local community, industry and 
Ngāi Tūāhuriri. 
Now that we have concluded 
our post-quake rebuild, it is the 
time to harness past experiences 
and current strengths to be 
creative and innovative. UC will 
drive performance in three key 
interrelated areas: academic, 
operational and societal impact.
This strategy outlines the way we 
will build on our proud tradition and 
reputation for excellence. UC will 
continue to focus on educational 
excellence and pioneering 
research with staff who are 
more empowered to make a real 
difference to societies here and 
around the world.
We will harness our expertise, 
history of excellence and 
intellectual and social capital 
to advance well-being and 
sustainability locally and beyond.Now is the time to harness 
past experiences and current 
strengths to be creative  
and innovative.

8   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Our Changing 
Context and 
History
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   9In 2023, UC will mark its 150th 
anniversary as an opportunity to 
celebrate past achievements and 
set a course that looks ahead to its 
second centenary. Much will change 
over this period. The very nature 
of higher education, its delivery, 
relevance and impact as well as 
the role of universities in society is 
expected to change dramatically. 
Just as globalisation and technology 
have transformed all sectors of the 
economy in the past 25 years, in the 
decades to come, universities face 
significant transformation. 
With massive diversification in the 
range of providers, methods and 
technologies delivering tertiary 
education worldwide, the assumptions 
underlying the traditional relationship 
between universities, students, and 
local and national economies are 
increasingly under great pressure. These pressures come from the 
changing world of learning, work and 
society, with the factors that affect our 
work broadly characterised in six key 
trends: the nature of knowledge, new 
ways of learning, geopolitics, social 
cohesion, sustainability, and the nature 
of work. 
This strategy is designed to support 
UC’s responses to each of these 
trends. In doing so it has identified 
five ways to address these pressures 
effectively: refocusing UC on our 
academic mission; addressing issues 
using a communitarian approach; 
addressing problems head on with 
an inter-disciplinary focus; actively 
working on culture and behaviour to 
act as one university; and taking a 
decisive stand on sustainability. We will 
also purposefully shift our gaze to the 
Asia-Pacific region. 
The very nature of higher education, its 
delivery, relevance and impact as well 
as the role of universities in society is 
expected to change dramatically.The University of Canterbury has been making a 
difference to people’ s lives and to society for nearly 
150 years. This Strategic Vision sets the direction 
for UC to further increase our impact for good in the 
coming years, regionally and globally. 
10   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Treaty of Waitangi
Aotearoa New Zealand is premised on Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Treaty of Waitangi, the 
founding partnership document of the nation signed in 1840. Whilst it was originally an 
agreement between Māori and representatives of the British Crown, in a modern day 
context it can be viewed as an agreement between Tangata Whenua, the people of the 
land, the indigenous Māori people, and Tangata Tiriti, people of the Treaty; this includes 
not only descendants of original settlers but people of all other ethnic origins who now 
reside in Aotearoa. 
UC is working towards an education system that includes te ao Māori, Māori world 
views, and mātauranga Māori, Māori indigenous knowledge systems, the land and 
their relationships with Tangata Tiriti. Our Graduate Profile provides a framework for 
bicultural competence and confidence, which is the ability to interact confidently and 
appropriately with people from different backgrounds. It goes beyond an awareness 
of, or sensitivity to, another culture to include the ability to use that knowledge in 
cross-cultural situations. It is focused upon the inclusion of mātauranga Māori and 
mātauranga Ngāi Tahu, Ngāi Tahu knowledge, within undergraduate degrees. The 
sense of belonging and commitment to Māori aspirations is made manifest for Māori. 
UC is a committed bicultural university operating in an intercultural world. We not only 
acknowledge the role of, and partnership with Tangata Whenua, we also aim to embed 
a bicultural perspective in all our learning, teaching and research. 
Our History
Although the University has adapted and changed to meet external challenges for 
nearly 150 years, it also holds true to the principles upon which is was founded. 
This university was formed first as the Canterbury Collegiate Union in 1872, and 
became the Canterbury College in 1873, the first constituent college of the University 
of New Zealand. It was the second institution in New Zealand to provide tertiary-level 
education, and the fourth in Australasia. In 1961, the federated University of New 
Zealand was split and the University of Canterbury was created as an independent 
university. 
Henry John Tancred was the first Chancellor of the University of New Zealand. In his 
inaugural address launching the Canterbury Collegiate Union he propounded his view 
that the new college should be entirely inclusive: 
“It is of the greatest importance to the wellbeing of the whole that this influence 
should be felt in every part and among all classes, that high as well as low, rich 
as well as poor, should have every opportunity afforded to them of cultivating 
and developing the higher faculties in such a manner as will fit them for 
occupying worthily the highest position in the State.”
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   11Sir Āpirana Ngata (1874–1950) 
a prominent researcher, lawyer, 
politician and leader was the first 
Māori scholar to graduate from a 
University in New Zealand in 1893. 
He further received an LLB from UC 
in 1897, followed by his MA in 1921.Mathematician Roy Kerr (1934–) is best 
known for his discovery of the exact 
solution to the Einstein field equation 
of general relativity. Attending UC from 
1951-54, he received his BSc on 4 May 
1954 and his MSc on 10 May 1955.
Dame Ngaio Marsh (1895–1982) is best 
known as one of four original “Queens of 
Crime” novelists. Dame Ngaio studied 
fine arts at UC and was also a renowned 
artist, playwright, actor and director.Helen Connon (1859–1903) first 
graduated with a BA in 1880, followed 
by an MA with first class honours in 
English and Latin in 1881. She was the 
first woman to receive a degree with 
honours in the British Empire.Beatrice Tinsley (1941–1981) was one of the 
most creative and significant theoreticians 
in modern astronomy. A senior scholar, her 
BSc was conferred on 4 May 1961 (under 
her maiden name of Hill). Sir Karl Popper (1902–1994) is 
regarded as one of the greatest 
philosophers of science of the 
20th century. His MA from UC was 
conferred in 1938.Rita Angus (1908–1970), a pioneer of 
modern painting, was a leading figure 
in twentieth century New Zealand art. 
She studied at UC from 1927–33, and 
was awarded a DipFA.
Nobel Laureate, Lord Rutherford  
(1871–1937) became known as “the 
father of the atom” for his discovery 
of atomic structure. At UC Lord 
Rutherford achieved a BA, MA and 
BSc by 1895, his DSc in 1901 (by 
thesis) and was awarded an honorary 
doctorate in 1931. Born in Tabuaeran, Line Islands, Anote 
Tong (1952–) was President of Kiribati 
from 2003 until 2016 and is mainly known 
for his efforts to raise global awareness 
of the threat posed by climate change. 
He attended UC between 1971–1975, 
receiving his BSc on 28 October 1975. 
Legends of the University
Since the inaugural address at the founding of the Canterbury Collegiate 
Union in 1872, this university has stood for accessible higher education, service 
to community, and the encouragement of talent without barriers of distance, 
wealth, class, gender or ethnicity. 
This Strategic Vision is a clear statement that the University continues to 
stand for these principles and explicitly aims to produce graduates who are 
engaged with their communities, empowered to act for good and determined 
to make a difference in the world. 
An overarching driver of this strategy is an institutional commitment to 
engagement. A university that commits itself to engagement undertakes to 
deploy its expertise and knowledge to advance civic purpose and to foster 
public good. 
UC will continue to support staff who are engaged, empowered and making a 
difference, with the goal of increasing purposeful academic efforts to make a 
difference regionally and in the world. UC supports academic staff taking the 
role of critic and conscience of society and an active role in shaping Aotearoa 
New Zealand society.
The University affirms its identity as a medium-sized, research-intensive, 
comprehensive university. It strives to deliver excellent, research-informed 
education, and creative and innovative research. Tangata Tū, Tangata Ora  
Engaged, Empowered, Making a DifferenceOur Vision  
and Mission
12   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   13Excellence 
building our future on the 
bedrock of excellenceRelevance 
responding to a  
changing worldImpact
making a difference 
locally & globallyKotahitanga
working as one 
 universityT angata Tū, T angata Ora
Engaged, empowered, making a difference
Sustainability Internationalisation Education
Accessible, 
Flexible, Future 
Focused 
Research
Impact in a 
Changing World
People
Nurturing Staff,  
Thriving StudentsEngagement
Ethos 
Ef  cacy 
14   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030UC as an 
Engaged 
University
Increase our presence and impact 
in Ōtautahi Christchurch and 
Waitaha Canterbury.1
Partner with Ngāi Tūāhuriri and 
Ngāi Tahu to uphold the mana and 
aspirations of the mana whenua.2
Make a positive impact on 
social sustainability in Ōtautahi 
Christchurch and Waitaha 
Canterbury.3Co-develop with our partners a research 
platform and commons to respond to 
identified needs, support city development 
and the wellbeing of all who live here.5
Retain and grow the diversity of talent 
in Ōtautahi Christchurch and Waitaha 
Canterbury.6Make a positive impact on hauora wellbeing 
of the people of Ōtautahi Christchurch and 
Waitaha Canterbury.4Key objectives to drive successful civic engagement:
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   15
Anchor 
UniversityCommunityEngagement
We will do this by partnering where we can with city institutions and organisations in carrying 
out our core activities of scholarship, including teaching, credentialing, consulting and 
research. These institutions include the Christchurch City Council, mana whenua, schools, 
businesses, and community organisations. We will, where we can, align with their strategic 
goals and projects, and direct our core activities to supporting the needs they identify.
UC will strengthen our economic and socio-cultural contribution to the city. Our first 
priority will be to co-develop with our partners a multi-agency Ōtautahi Christchurch 
research platform and commons to respond to identified needs, support city 
development and wellbeing, and to strengthen our combined impact. Through this we will 
lead and coordinate research that supports initiatives responding to the challenges faced 
by our city, and help build resilience and sustainability into our institutions.UC will purposefully support the development, growth 
and success of our city and region. 
UC has been shaped by its context, and its historical evolution is inextricably interwoven 
with the history of Waitaha Canterbury and Ōtautahi Christchurch. Universities like 
UC, where town and gown grew via an interconnected trajectory, over time come to 
function as anchors or nodes within towns, cities and regions. They attract talent (staff 
and students), produce high-level skills, generate knowledge and function as a micro-
economy through providing employment, real estate holdings, training and technical 
capacity, employment practices, and procuring goods and services. The operations 
of a city-based university like UC are integrally connected to the wealth and wellbeing 
of Ōtautahi Christchurch and Waitaha Canterbury, the local region. A thriving city will 
support a thriving university and vice versa. 
The University will work with the triple concepts of engagement, community and its 
role as an anchor university to develop research and teaching, strategic investment 
and support for the city and region. In taking an intentional, institutional stance on its 
contribution to communities, UC is harnessing the spirit and desire of its staff and 
students in joining an increasing number of world-renowned, highly ranked universities 
that have a long history of engagement with their communities. 
16   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030We will adopt policies that support the region and build partnerships 
within it, such as:
• favouring local businesses in procurement; 
• making campus facilities available for external use; 
• leveraging our existing presence in the CBD and increasing it where  
we can; 
• seeking opportunities for commercial partnerships; 
• developing courses and programmes in consultation with local 
organisations that will help to meet the needs they identify, and 
adapting delivery modes to improve access to them; 
• expanding our capacity to deliver consultancy and other services that 
build on our expertise to meet community needs; 
• engaging in joint projects with community partners, including courses, 
fieldwork and investments that support community development; 
• expanding and coordinating our internship, work-integrated-learning 
and community-engaged programmes to better support our local 
institutions and communities.
Partner with Ngāi Tūāhuriri and Ngāi Tahu 
At the heart of UC’s connection with our community is our relationship 
with mana whenua, the people of the land, Ngāi Tūāhuriri and with 
Ngāi Tahu more broadly, which is supported by the UC-Ngāi Tūāhuriri 
Partnership agreement to guide our collaboration and drive outcomes. 
UC will realise the objectives of the partnership through ongoing 
engagement with Ngāi Tūāhuriri, Ngāi Tahu, and city partners to 
recognise mana whenua, and support Māori learning and aspirations. 
Opportunity for all Communities
The first Chancellor of the University of New Zealand, John Henry 
Tancred, propounded the importance of greater inclusivity as it would 
impact the wellbeing of not only the new college but the greater 
community as a whole. This strategy reconfirms our commitment to 
greater accessibility to all parts of our community.
Demographic data shows that students from poorer households are 
far less likely to attend any university; this similarly applies for Māori and 
Pasifika students. Te Amorangi Mātauranga Matua | Tertiary Education 
Commission recognises this and its Tertiary Education Strategy 
prioritises both groups along with supporting adult literacy in Aotearoa 
New Zealand. 
By 2030 UC will have made a 
measurable improvement to 
the Ōtautahi Christchurch and 
W aitaha Canterbury economy. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   17This strategy reinforces the University’s commitment to 
improving equity of access and success for all students, 
particularly those groups which currently do not access 
university education. In addition to the groups mentioned 
above, this includes students with disability, rainbow students, 
refugees and others. UC will invest in removing barriers for 
underserved groups and helping develop the conditions for 
their success before they enrol and while they are enrolled. 
We will align with city strategies that recognise the contribution 
of the arts, sport and culture to community wellbeing. We will 
also explore programmes and courses, in conjunction with 
other educational institutions that support the needs of  
these partners.
We are committed to direct, two-way interaction with our 
communities through the development, exchange, and 
application of knowledge, information, and expertise for  
mutual benefit.
18   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Internationalisation – 
Locally Engaged,  
Globally Networked
Develop UC’s global partnerships, 
particularly in the Asia-Pacific 
region, to support research and 
teaching excellence. 1
Expand the University’s 
educational services to students 
living offshore through a portfolio 
of Transnational Education (TNE) 
and online educational offerings.2
Expand the nationalities and cultures 
represented in our student body.3Promote understanding of Aotearoa 
New Zealand’s place in the world and 
its cultural distinctiveness, including 
Māori as Tangata Whenua and our 
responsibilities to Pacific nations.5Enhance the internationalisation 
of the curriculum and student 
experience. 4Key objectives to drive successful internationalisation:
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   19UC will strengthen and grow its international 
partnerships to increase teaching and research 
impact.
As a highly-ranked, research-intensive university, UC has strong international 
research connections, built on personal and professional relationships. Given 
that universities are becoming increasingly globalised, competition for talent 
and resources is intensifying. UC plans to build on these relationships by forging 
institutional level partnerships and becoming an active participant in global 
university networks and consortia.
Global Partnerships
UC has strong research connections with institutions in the northern hemisphere, 
notably with the UK, European and US institutions as well as special relationships 
with other Asia-Pacific countries. While continuing to collaborate with partner 
institutions, UC will seek to develop new collaborations with partners in other 
regions and in particular in Asian and Pacific countries. Consistent with our strong 
commitment to biculturalism, and in collaboration with the Ngāi Tahu Research 
Centre, UC will build international partnerships to support indigenous knowledge 
economies, regionally, nationally and internationally.
We will be internationally recognised for research and teaching that informs and 
matters to society. Universities that are internationally oriented are especially 
well-positioned to be effective anchor institutions within their local communities to 
support socio-economic and cultural wellbeing. Internationally-engaged universities 
that are embedded within their communities provide an important bridge connecting 
local policy-makers, businesses and communities to international networks, sister 
cities and policy-makers. 
UC is a member of international alliances including Academic Consortium 21 (AC21) 
and the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU). New alliances and 
partnerships will be selected on the basis of:
• common research interests with scale;
• existing or proposed transnational or articulation arrangements for education;
• breadth of impact across comprehensive universities;
• both university and subject rankings;
• Ōtautahi Christchurch, Waitaha Canterbury, Aotearoa New Zealand and Pacific 
interests and comparative advantages.
20   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Transnational and Online Education
UC has a long history of involvement in international education, 
beginning in the 1950s when students from the Asia-Pacific region 
came to study at UC under the Colombo Plan. Today UC has a number 
of articulation agreements in place with overseas universities, where 
undergraduate students begin their studies in their home country and 
then come to Aotearoa New Zealand to complete a UC qualification. 
UC students also travel to offshore universities for sections of their  
own programmes. 
The University sees great value in strengthening ties with high-
quality overseas universities that teach and research in similar or 
complementary areas. These ties bring the potential for improved 
quality while also supporting the financial sustainability of both 
institutions. UC will build upon these collaborative programmes through 
new agreements that involve offshore delivery of UC courses with 
partner universities.
UC will partner with overseas institutions in major target markets to 
develop new cohort pathways into UC, while continuing to work closely 
with local partners, and our key agents. Flexible delivery of selected 
undergraduate and postgraduate programmes through online and 
distance learning, and which may include intensive block teaching, will 
enable UC to deliver programmes to a larger, more diverse international 
student population. 
UC as a Study Destination
Our reputation as an attractive study destination for both domestic 
and international students is increasingly dependent upon our ability 
to deliver internationally relevant, academic programmes and to 
offer students a holistic campus experience. These experiences help 
students to acquire the knowledge and intercultural understanding  
they will need to succeed within a global workforce and to thrive as 
global citizens.
International students contribute to the intellectual and cultural 
diversity of the campus. Contact with international students enables 
staff and students to see the world from vantage points that differ from 
their own – this allows them to learn about and better understand other 
cultures and countries. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   21Currently most of our international students come from a 
small number of countries and are concentrated in two of 
our five Colleges. This pattern limits cultural diversity within 
the classroom and our ability to provide a truly international 
student experience for all. UC will direct resources to 
enhance the diversity of our student population.
Internationalisation of teaching and research brings new 
ideas, investment and intellect into the region, as well as 
global research expertise that local policy-makers and 
employers can leverage to support regional innovation 
and socio-economic growth. Meanwhile, research 
borne out of particular local circumstances helps to 
generate new international connections and partnerships. 
Aotearoa New Zealand is one of the leading exponents 
of genuine engagement with, if not empowerment of, its 
indigenous people. This commitment enriches teaching 
and research, and is a distinctive feature on the world 
stage of international education and research. UC’s 
growing competence as a bicultural organisation means 
that international students gain an understanding of 
biculturalism, as well as a better understanding of Aotearoa 
New Zealand’s place in the world. 
UC is systematically 
internationalising all aspects 
of our research, learning and 
teaching, operations  
and governance.
22   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Education –  
Accessible, Flexible, 
Future Focused 
Stimulate and support academic 
development and innovation to 
become the best educators in 
Aotearoa New Zealand. 1
Deliver a curriculum that prepares 
our students to be enquiring 
and enables them to create and 
contribute knowledge for a better 
society. 2
Ensure students are provided with 
lifelong learning opportunities 
through flexible degree and delivery 
options to allow a UC education to 
respond to the current and future 
needs of work and society.3Continue to develop the UC Graduate 
Profile so that UC graduates are known 
for their bicultural competence and 
confidence, global understanding, 
community engagement, employability 
and innovative thinking. 5Provide a learning environment 
that uses effective pedagogies, 
facilities, and learning technologies 
to support the needs of each 
generation of learners and 
employers.4Key objectives to drive successful learning and teaching at UC:
UC is adopting curriculum and pedagogy principles 
to enhance our existing programmes to be meaningful 
and relevant for both staff and students.
UC provides a comprehensive educational experience for students across 
undergraduate, taught postgraduate, and research postgraduate programmes. It has 
committed to a UC Graduate Profile which responds to the needs of contemporary 
Aotearoa New Zealand society and students who are living increasingly global lives. 
Building on existing strengths, UC will be recognised as the leading Aotearoa New 
Zealand university in research informed teaching and learning. UC will move to a 
curriculum that is even more globally recognised, locally sought-after by prospective 
students and graduate employers, engaging and attractive to students and academics 
nationally and internationally. 
This Strategic Vision commits UC to supporting more research informed innovation 
to enhance our education. UC will create a centre for teaching and learning innovation, 
which will gather evidence for excellent learning and teaching but also provide a 
co-ordinating and educative role. Staff will have more opportunities for professional 
development and recognition for those endeavours. 
Underpinning our position of being New Zealand’s leading university in research-
informed teaching and learning, UC will commit to supporting the professional 
development of the teaching staff so that students have the best possible learning 
experience. 
Developing Enquiry-Based Education 
Society is constantly looking for ways to deal with complex problems and global issues. 
As a leading university there is an opportunity to work across disciplines, not only in 
our research, but in our taught curriculum to respond to these complex problems. 
An undergraduate curriculum that is accessible and meets the goals of developing 
content-specific knowledge, graduate attributes, and preparation for postgraduate 
study will require purpose and innovation. In order to be recognised as the leading 
Aotearoa New Zealand educational university, UC will increase development support, 
reward and recognition for academic teaching staff.
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   23
Building on existing strengths, UC will  
be recognised as the leading Aotearoa  
New Zealand university in research  
informed teaching and learning.
The University’s curricula provide students with a high quality, relevant 
foundation of knowledge that fosters enquiry. These curricula empower 
students to learn and develop to their full potential. UC will enhance our existing 
curricula using the following principles:
Principle 1:  
Te Poutama guided  
the curriculum will provide 
a coherent staircase from 
entry through to post 
doctorate levels. 
Principle 2:  
Enquiry-based  
the curriculum will build 
enquiry and foster 
research pathways. 
Principle 3: 
Interdisciplinary  
the curriculum will 
support inter-disciplinary 
programs that are 
thematic and issues-
based.Principle 4:  
Accessible  
the curriculum will be 
accessible to a diverse 
student body
Principle 5:  
UC distinctive  
the curriculum will be 
distinctive, reflecting this 
University’s academic 
strengths and research 
excellence. 
Principle 6:  
Partnered  
the curriculum will build on 
meaningful partnerships 
to anchor UC within local 
and regional communities, 
industry and iwi. Principle 7:  
Global  
the curriculum will 
embed global citizenship 
and sustainability 
by recognising the 
challenges presented by 
changing environments so 
that students can make a 
positive contribution  
to an increasingly  
globalised society.
24   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030
Flexible Degree Options and Delivery Modes
Students expect to be able to shop, read and learn in any location and at any 
time. UC will make a purposeful plan to ensure it meets these expectations 
while also maintaining a high standard of academic rigour, strong retention 
rates and constructive outcomes for students. 
The New Zealand workforce will continue to face accelerating demands to 
keep up with new professional and technical knowledge requirements in 
coming years, particularly with the rise of machine learning, deep learning, 
artificial intelligence and big data, along with other changes in the workplace.
To meet the needs of future learners, UC will develop more flexible degree 
options which allow for more issues focused education while also allowing 
students to choose the most appropriate educational response to fast 
changing personal and societal needs. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   25• General education
• Professional 
qualifications
• Research pathways
• Internships
• Lifelong learning
• Single disciplinary
• Blue skies and  
curiosity driven
• Transdisciplinary 
solutions driven
• TransformationalEngagement
• Applying knowledge to 
societal challenges
• Answers to society’s 
challenges: economic, 
social, environmental 
• Quality of graduates
• Building the knowledge 
base for the future• Every academic is a 
partner for others  
within UC
• Research or 
educational groups 
partner with other like 
minded groups and 
individuals
• UC has institutional 
partnershipsEducation Partnership
ResearchVirtual and Real Learning Environments
UC will increasingly use technology to support our strong pedagogical 
strategy. Technology will provide opportunities to diversify the student body 
and to create better access to the curriculum. Technology will support 
the use of a wide array of assessments that support the acquisition of 
knowledge, competencies and skills as well as the graduate attributes.
Online education is growing, and blending online with face-to-face delivery is 
becoming normalised. In 2019, UC has about 1400 students learning online at 
UC, and this strategy outlines our commitment to increase this number. UC 
will respond to this growing world-wide trend by improving and increasing our 
e-learning offerings.
The UC Graduate Profile
The University has made a commitment to a graduate profile in recent times 
and efforts to implement that across the undergraduate degrees have been 
concerted. The University is committed to graduate attributes of bicultural 
competence and confidence, employability, community engagement and 
global awareness. This reflects the University’s established and growing 
commitment to biculturalism and Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Treaty of Waitangi.  
UC will continue to develop and keep relevant the UC graduate profile.
26   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Research –  
Impact in a 
Changing W orld 
Develop and support 
transdisciplinary research to better 
impact local and global challenges.1
Improve the national and 
international research profile, 
reputation and ranking of  
the University. 2
Increase and diversify funding 
sources for the University’s 
research portfolio including for 
research institutes, centres  
and clusters. 3Provide, access and share “state of the 
art” research, equipment, facilities and 
e-infrastructure. 5Improve strategic local, regional and 
international research collaborations to 
increase research impact. 4Key objectives to drive high-impact research:
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   27UC has a proud, rich, deep, and broad portfolio of world 
class research. UC will continue to deliver global impact 
and relevance to the world’ s key problems. 
UC has a mission to make a difference both locally and on the international stage. Two 
key ways that this can happen is to undertake excellent and impactful research and 
to ensure the world knows about it. This University will work to improve our reputation 
and recognition locally and in the world, by both proactively engaging with existing 
international higher-education collaborations, and by developing new research 
collaborations with a particular focus across the Asia-Pacific region.
Transdisciplinary Research Responding to Local and  
Global Challenges
UC is part of the global trend toward transdisciplinary research working on critical, 
societal “grand challenges”. Our academics work in international research teams as well 
as in smaller groups and individually, and are part of a global ecosystem of research. 
Much of this research is focused on the grand challenges facing the world. This Strategic 
Vision commits UC to continuing and strengthening its focus on sustainable energy, 
health and wellbeing, environmental sustainability, food security, the aging population, 
justice and equity, and disruptive technology. The local challenges facing our city and 
region include sustainable water; mitigating the effects of climate change; city, social and 
economic development; and Treaty partnership. 
Our internal and globally linked research clusters and institutes are based on a 
transdisciplinary approach which is proving very productive and rewarding. UC will 
continue these transdisciplinary efforts, and establish new high-impact, high-quality 
research clusters from which will evolve new transdisciplinary research institutes over 
the next decade. The emerging themes of research will include social equity, community 
cohesion, and wellbeing; sustainable water, energy, food use, and infrastructure resilience; 
interaction of technology and humanity; technology innovation.
The University’s postgraduate students and postdoctoral fellows support the bulk of 
research at UC. This University recognises this important contribution, and will continue 
to grow and nurture postgraduate students and postdoctoral fellows to support 
the increase in impact, quality and volume of its research, particularly supporting 
transdisciplinary opportunities for them. 
28   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Research Partnerships
Aotearoa New Zealand’s economy is significantly dependent on 
commodity-based exports, tourism, and international education 
services. The country aims to be a high-value, productive economy, 
whilst improving environmental sustainability and societal equity. The 
private sector has chronically under-invested in R&D; the Government 
has re-introduced a research and development tax rebate for 
companies to encourage investment for business growth. As part of an 
increased focus on engagement with the local and regional community, 
UC will purposefully work with local, national, and international partners 
to provide research and development for economic growth. Similarly, 
public research funding is expanding, and increasingly being targeted 
to address specific sector research, capability and investment needs 
across Aotearoa New Zealand. UC will work with Government, sector 
groups, and other research providers to proactively develop and deliver 
national and international research programmes. 
This University is geographically placed both nationally (alongside 
other New Zealand tertiary institutions, a large number of Crown 
Research Institutes, and a large research hospital in Canterbury), and 
internationally (at the edge of the Asia-Pacific region, and a gateway 
to Antarctica and Southern Ocean), to further develop deep research 
partnerships, that will have impact both regionally and internationally. 
In developing these research partnerships, our guiding principles will 
be research excellence, impact and relevance, and building research 
connectivity that makes a difference. 
UC will continue to recognise, grow and nurture the postgraduate and 
postdoctoral student body to support the increase in impact, quality 
and volume of its research. 
Research Infrastructure
In the period from 2011 to 2019, the University undertook a major rebuild 
resulting in modern science and technology facilities. Most research 
is increasingly underpinned by the need to generate, manipulate, 
integrate, interrogate, share and visualise vast amounts of digital data 
within nation states and internationally. From the humanities through to 
astronomy and astrophysics many disciplines now require good access 
to well-functioning e-infrastructure. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   29UC will both invest in its own research infrastructure and also 
strengthen our part in the local and global network of research 
facilities and e-infrastructure to complement and increase 
the world’s capacity to develop new knowledge and the 
applications of that knowledge. 
Cultural Responsiveness and Engagement
In research, Vision Mātauranga is the frame by which bicultural 
responsiveness is given effect. Mātauranga Māori is an 
important expectation of the Government research funding 
in New Zealand. Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Treaty of Waitangi 
responsibility obligates research to engage, respect and 
protect the rights embedded in the partnership between Māori 
and other New Zealanders. This expectation therefore requires 
bicultural competence and confidence across our research 
community and processes which enable quality consideration 
of these factors. 
By 2030 UC will have increased 
research output, impact and 
relevance relative to size. 
30   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030People –  
Nurturing Staff, 
Thriving Students
Foster the UC ethos of excellence, 
relevance, impact and kotahitanga, 
and a culture of high ethical standards, 
collaboration, and innovation. 1
Select, develop and reward 
talented staff including the 
next generation of outstanding 
Aotearoa New Zealand 
researchers and best educators. 2
Develop and provide targeted 
interventions and a positive 
environment to support student 
success.3Create a diverse and inclusive community 
where all staff and students have a sense 
of belonging, building on our bicultural 
foundations.5Adopt Te Pae Māhutonga wellbeing  
model to guide staff and student support  
and services. 4Key objectives which will support wellbeing and success: 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   31UC will provide a sustaining environment where the 
holistic wellbeing of students, staff and our community 
enables our people to be successful, engaged, empowered 
and making a difference. 
The University is building a positive, constructive culture as well as an enabling 
environment for staff and students to develop educationally and professionally.  
An ethos of excellence, relevance, impact and kotahitanga will be developed and 
supported through our organisation. 
Nurturing Staff
As an organisation, UC values the ideas and expertise of the many, not the few. This 
University’s research and education aspirations are rooted in the skill, talent and passion 
of its academics to create and disseminate profound new knowledge. The UC student 
experience of the next ten years must be delivered through academic, professional, 
administrative and technical staff working together in new and inspirational ways. UC 
will therefore place great emphasis on attracting, developing and rewarding staff of 
world class talent, who are excited to work in our collaborative research and teaching 
environment in the Asia-Pacific region. 
UC is committed to working as one organisation. In order to achieve kotahitanga, and to 
better support staff to make the contribution they want to make, we will ensure that the 
functions, roles and responsibilities of units and individuals are clear and support agility, 
responsiveness and collaboration. 
Empowered, effective staff are the key to our success. To meet the goals and objectives 
of this Strategy, UC will further develop its performance management, learning and 
development programmes, and reward and recognition processes. Development of 
leaders who build a strong, constructive, team culture is equally core to our success. 
In turn, staff will continue to nurture students and to create an active, inclusive and 
constructive learning and research community for all. 
A Health, Safety and Wellbeing Framework for all UC People
UC will implement an agreed integrated model for the health, safety and wellbeing of 
its people. Adopting a coherent wellbeing framework and comprehensive programme 
of demonstrably effective interventions, education and services is vital. UC is therefore 
intending to introduce Te Pae Māhutonga, a framework developed by Sir Mason Durie, 
and an aligned range of services to support wellbeing across the staff and student body.
The University is committed to embracing diversity and inclusiveness, and will not 
discriminate on the basis of gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or age.
32   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Thriving Students
UC has developed an approach to academic and pastoral support 
that considers the whole student and is based on eight key beliefs and 
behaviours, ranging from engendering a sense of belonging in students, 
through to reflecting on learning. 
1. Belonging
2. Self-efficacy
3. Personal Meaning
4. Active Involvement
5. Personal Reflection
6. Social Integration
7. Self-awareness
8. Personal Validation
Support and care for students in need of advice, guidance and wellbeing 
support are provided through outreach, education, pastoral care and 
crisis intervention and referral support. 
The overall approach to support contributes to a campus environment 
that is responsive to changing trends and an increasingly diverse 
student community. Encouraging greater participation and access will 
require UC to embed new success and wellbeing strategies that are 
data-informed, technology-enabled, and that respond better to the 
needs of Māori, Pasifika, First in Family and other student groups. 
A Community Where People Feel They Belong
A core component of wellbeing is a community where everyone feels 
a sense of belonging. UC is a diverse, multicultural organisation with 
emerging bicultural capabilities. Our commitment to weaving bicultural 
competence and confidence into our teaching, research and daily 
work is the foundation for enhanced intercultural inclusiveness in our 
community, in Aotearoa New Zealand and beyond. However, there is 
more to be done, including further education around how bicultural 
competence and a broader cultural competence provides a framework 
for responding to broad social justice issues of racism, systemic 
disadvantage, privilege and discrimination.
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   33UC has a unique partnership with the University of Canterbury 
Students’ Association (UCSA) and is committed to continue 
working collaboratively with UCSA, as well as with the Tertiary 
Education Union (TEU), to enrich our collective understanding, 
skills and lived experience. 
An Environment That Sustains
The built and natural environment on campus is essential to the 
wellbeing for many people by providing space for recreation, 
sport, amenities, as well as a sense of place and connection. 
UC will continue to invest in well-researched, cost effective 
built and natural spaces that support holistic wellbeing and 
sustainability. The two first stages will be to build a new 
interfaith space and a new recreation centre. 
UC will be increasingly known 
for its constructive engaging 
culture which actively supports 
staff and student wellbeing.
34   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Organisational 
Efcacy 
Increase the economic impact of the 
University on the city and region. 1
Grow and diversify revenue 
to become an economically 
sustainable university able to 
initiate new, high impact projects. 2
Ensure that the University’s costs 
and funding mechanisms are 
efficient, simple and transparent.3Use infrastructure in a responsible, ethical, 
effective and efficient way to enable and 
empower our people and communities.5Simplify, automate and reduce business 
processes with a humanistic approach.4Key objectives to achieve economic sustainability and effectiveness: 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   35The University’ s structures and systems empower those 
who work with them, are integrated and streamlined, 
promote a constructive culture, and have one focus – 
quality learning, teaching and research.
With UC looking toward its 150-year celebration in 2023, ensuring sustainability will be 
essential to the long-term prosperity of this institution. This University’s ability to sustain 
the staff, the work, and the environment for the next 150 years is critical to enabling our 
people to continue to make a difference – tangata tū tangata ora. 
Increasing Our Economic Impact
UC is an anchor institution in Ōtautahi Christchurch and Waitaha Canterbury. We will 
increase the positive economic impact we make in our communities, providing an 
increase in local economic growth and positive sustainable population growth. 
UC commits to purposefully addressing its economic impact for good on its local 
communities. This will be done through responsible and impact investment, conscious 
procurement decisions, locally appropriate employment policies, and responsible 
facilities provision and estate management. The University will endeavour to recruit high 
quality staff and students who will increase the intellectual capital of the city and region. 
UC commits to attracting and nurturing talent in Ōtautahi Christchurch and Waitaha 
Canterbury through expanded opportunities for participation, connecting with quality 
international students, and offering lifelong learning options and relevant work-integrated 
learning. This will result in an enriched pool of skilled and experienced people for our 
businesses, homes and communities. 
Purchaser
Talent  
attractorEmployerEstate  
management
Workforce 
developerR&D 
Partners
36   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Institutional Economic Sustainability
This University is in a stable financial position in 2019, but remains  
subscale for long term sustainability. UC will act to ensure it reaches  
a sustainable scale. 
UC will continue to work towards becoming economically sustainable 
by 2028, with a consolidation phase until 2030. Analysis based on the 
current operating model shows that in order to take its place as a medium-
sized, financially sustainable university in global terms, UC is likely to 
need to grow. This would enable UC to cover core operational costs on 
a sustainable basis and generate sufficient earnings for reinvestment 
in future capital requirements. In this context “growth” means increases 
in operating revenue and earnings, from student enrolments, research 
outputs and other diversified sources. UC has shown that we are an 
organisation able to survive and adapt in highly complex and uncertain 
conditions. We are well placed to continue to push towards the appropriate 
scale. Well-planned enrolment growth will enable UC to increase earnings 
and provide the resources to invest in sustainability. 
Opportunities to grow student numbers lie in five main areas: 
1. Increasing participation from underserved groups
2. Attracting more students from Aotearoa New Zealand as a whole
3. Increasing the number and diversity of international students
4. Increasing online distance education
5. Embracing lifelong learning
Diversifying Revenue
As a public university working for the public good, UC is heavily reliant 
on Aotearoa New Zealand Government funding and about 80% of our 
revenue is from traditional teaching. We will diversify into new revenue 
streams that will, in turn, reduce reliance on enrolment growth and 
Government funding to become sustainable. However, it will take time 
and investment by UC to develop new revenue streams to the scale that 
reduces this reliance on traditional face-to-face teaching income. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   37In order to achieve the scale needed to ensure another 150 
years of successful sustainable operation, we will need to 
foster innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit that generates 
enough opportunities to grow so that the benefits outweigh 
the risks. There is evidence that supporting and encouraging 
innovation in large organisations increases not only risk but 
also revenue. In order to do this, UC will support “intrapreneurs” 
to innovate successfully, with some reduction in the 
associated risks. We will support and incentivise individuals 
who contribute to developing alternative income sources. 
Through its scholarly engagement, UC will develop alternative 
teaching and consulting income streams, linking with the 
Waitaha Canterbury region, the University’s alumni and 
individuals’ networks. The University’s alumni are highly valued 
by the university and represent graduates to be proud of, while 
also being important links to the community. 
The organisation will divert traditional expenditure on “bricks 
and mortar” to “clicks and mortar”, and look at ways to better 
utilise its large asset base and commercialise its intellectual 
property. 
The university sector is bound for disruption as mass online 
education increases and international collaboration change 
the higher education market. UC is alive to these disruptions 
and will act to join, rather than to ignore, these opportunities. 
UC enjoys the benefits of philanthropic support and will 
continue to work with donors to improve our long-term 
financial stability and to support the good we achieve in our 
communities and for the world. 
UC has the opportunity to work with its mana whenua 
partners, Ngāi Tūāhuriri and the broader Ngāi Tahu group to 
explore increased revenue streams for mutual benefit. 
38   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Transparent and Well Understood Costs and  
Funding Mechanisms
To guide our operational improvement, we will develop better 
awareness of the financial impact of our activities, and be agile and 
creative in our response to currently unsustainable activities. We will 
improve the transparency of funding and spending to ensure that 
accurate data is available and used to support decision-making.
Our business and operational services should mirror the advancements 
we are making within our teaching. We will improve the internal funding 
mechanisms to support collaboration and development of new revenue 
sources and entrepreneurial activities. 
We will empower people, so that decisions are made as close to 
the student and the research activity as possible, in the pursuit of 
innovation, entrepreneurship, agility and responsiveness.
The University’s financial strategy is and will continue to be designed to 
support this Strategic Vision as a whole.
Processes and Systems
UC will use the input and empowerment of frontline staff, process 
simplification, re-engineering, automation, robotics, AI and other tools 
to reduce the manual paperwork, bureaucracy and duplication while 
maintaining financial prudence. Staff using tools and processes will 
most often know them best, so their leadership, expertise and ideas 
are crucial in improving them. UC will continue to work to make our 
institutional arrangements and processes systematic, efficient and 
coordinated. 
Enabling Infrastructure
Throughout the world, organisations are finding that the use of 
technology, large data sets, and technology-enabled international 
research clusters can be powerful tools in making research and 
educational breakthroughs. These tools can also be used for 
competitive advantage in the global competition for talent – both 
students and staff. Similarly, they can be used to support evidence 
informed tactical and strategic decision-making in the university. 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   39UC will use technology to support its global reach for 
education and research, to attract talented students and 
staff and to support both strategic and tactical decisions. We 
will review our technologies, tools and spaces to ensure they 
are aligned, responsive, place trust in the user, and promote 
better learning, teaching and research. UC has a permanent 
data analysis team, a developed data warehouse and is 
developing a data lake. It teaches data analysis in a number 
of courses and programmes and has a strong academic 
mathematics department. However, UC can do a lot more 
with data to support timely and well informed decisions and to 
support this strategy. Better data analysis can support a more 
entrepreneurial university, more individualised learning and 
teaching support, and also the ability to deliver high-quality 
research with global impact. 
In 2019, the University nears the completion of a $1.4B rebuild 
of the campus to meet current and near future needs, it will 
now focus on addressing the long term requirements for this 
strategy. The key areas of investment are for student and staff 
wellbeing, research equipment and the associated facilities, 
and culturally responsive spaces to support inclusion and 
student success. 
UC will be of a sustainable  
scale by 2030. 
40   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Environmentally 
Sustainable
Establish a carbon neutrality initiative 
to ensure that UC will be carbon net 
neutral by 2030.1
Ensure that UC research 
contributes to resolving global 
sustainability challenges.2
Weave opportunities for students 
to learn and contribute to resolving 
the Sustainable Development 
Goals through UC teaching.3Grow and leverage our local, national and 
global sustainability networks to bring new 
thinking to our challenge and to share  
our practice.5Measurably and substantially improve the 
environmental sustainability of UC.4Key objectives to drive environmental sustainability: 
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   41UC will become more sustainable and contribute to the 
world’ s sustainability. 
The United Nations General Assembly has adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a universal and 
transformative development strategy. This Agenda commits the global community 
to ‘achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions—economic, social and 
environmental—in a balanced and integrated manner’1. Aotearoa New Zealand signed 
up to the UN SDGs and the University is committed to achieving sustainability for 
itself and its communities. This section of the Strategic Vision outlines the University’s 
approach to environmental sustainability. Economic and social sustainability are 
addressed elsewhere. 
UC made a commitment to sustainability in the late 1990s, and through this strategy, 
will accelerate its efforts to become fully sustainable. The main Ilam Campus has been 
“greened” with better infrastructure, stream restoration, and thoughtful planting; UC 
continues to address issues of water conversation, transport and waste management. 
New buildings are built to meet green standards. 
In 2012, UC signed up to the Certified Emissions Management and Reduction Scheme 
(CEMARS) and was the first university outside of the UK to do so. In 2017, UC was 
recognised by the Fair Trade Association of Australia and Aotearoa New Zealand as 
a Fair Trade University, one of only two in New Zealand, and the first entirely Fair Trade 
campus. In 2018, we started to track our contribution to achieving our UC sustainability 
goals and to the sustainability of New Zealand. In this strategy, UC makes a commitment 
not only to continue to improve its sustainability but also to become carbon net neutral. 
Carbon Status
UC will become carbon net neutral and will meet or exceed the New Zealand 
Government target of 2050. It will achieve this by developing a Carbon Neutrality 
Initiative. By fostering engagement and collaboration, the Carbon Neutrality Initiative 
will create an inter-disciplinary web of expertise across our Colleges and services units, 
which will come together to guide the implementation of projects and initiatives that will 
reduce the University’s carbon emissions. 
Building upon the expertise of Aotearoa New Zealand’s only Forestry School, UC will 
develop its own sequestration programme. The programme will offer opportunities 
for forestry and business students to learn and to leverage a commercial forest for 
research. Performance beyond the University’s carbon needs provides the opportunity 
to contribute to the carbon performance of the wider Waitaha Canterbury community. 
1. United Nations Economic and Social Commission 
for Asia and the Pacific, 2015.
42   |   University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030Academe Supporting Sustainability
At the base of this University’s success will be its approach to 
sustainability, building on the concept of Ōtautahi Christchurch as a 
living lab. UC will partner with our community to research, learn and test 
solutions to global sustainability problems. Using our partnerships UC 
will provide evidence-based decision-making support to stakeholders 
to create meaningful impacts. 
UC will develop our sustainability practices so that they are woven into 
the very fabric of our academic mission. By providing our students 
with the opportunities to work on real-world problems, both on UC 
campuses and throughout the city, we will nurture graduates who are 
better prepared to make a difference in our community and our planet. 
With applied knowledge and community connections, our students will 
continue to be a shaping influence on Waitaha Canterbury culture  
and society. 
In its approach to sustainability, UC is guided by the special significance 
of Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Treaty of Waitangi and is committed to being 
good stewards of our own environment. UC is a member of a range 
of partnerships, which we use to support our efforts to become 
sustainable. UC will regularly evaluate those partnerships. We will 
actively invest in a select number of global and local sustainability 
partnerships to support our ambitious and holistic view of sustainability. 
UC is aiming to be  
carbon net neutral by 2030. 
UC at a Glance
17,299 Students 
1,909 Staff (FTE)
50% International Staff 
142,000 Alumni 
5 Star QS Ranked University
5 Colleges | Arts | Business & Law |  
Education, Health & Human 
Development | Engineering | Science
Over 2,000 Courses Offered
Over 35 Research Centres/Institutes
$1.5b in Assets
Audited Figures 2018
www.canterbury.ac.nz/strategy
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   43
University of Canterbury Strategic Vision – 2020–2030    |   43

