TIME AND CHANGE
OHIO STATE’S STRATEGIC PLAN
Enable, Empower and Inspire
Letter from Board Chair Alex Shumate  
and President Michael V. Drake, MD  
Introduction
Ohio State's Aspiration
The Five Pillars
   Teaching and Learning
   Access, Affordability and Excellence
   Research and Creative Expression
   Academic Health Care
   Operational Excellence and Resource Stewardship
Implementation
Conclusioni 
1
4
5
7
9
11
13
15
16TABLE OF CONTENTS
LETTER FROM BOARD CHAIR ALEX SHUMATE  
AND PRESIDENT MICHAEL V . DRAKE, MD  
Ohio State has arrived at an unprecedented moment in its nearly 150-year history. Our 
momentum has never been greater — with university records in applications, graduation 
rates, academic excellence, diversity, donor support and more.  
We stand at the doorway of transformational change for Ohio State and the national higher 
education landscape. Our strategic plan sets forth the next steps of what it means to be a 
flagship public research university in the 21st century.
Through thousands of hours of focus, effort and input from faculty, staff, students, alumni, 
friends and the community, we have built a plan to provide the best in what higher 
education has to offer. 
To be successful in this next bold leap in our history, we need the talents and contributions 
of all members of Buckeye Nation. 
We invite you to learn more about Ohio State's strategic plan and join us as we fulfill yet 
anew the promise of our founding.
iAlex Shumate
Board of Trustees, Chairman
The Ohio State University 
Michael V. Drake, MD  
President
The Ohio State University

INTRODUCTION
What Ohio State does matters. And how we do it matters. When we are 
at our best, we make a real difference to people. Our size, breadth, 
geography, history and standard of excellence position us to drive the 
future of higher education. 
Our strategic plan is to be the best university we can be. We owe it to 
our students, our faculty, our staff and to our community. We owe it to 
ourselves. And, because we are Ohio State, we owe it to the nation.
This means that our accessibility, teaching, research, service and 
stewardship must be of the highest order, carried out in a way that 
exemplifies best practices for our peers across the nation and around the 
world. Anything less is missing our unique opportunity to make good on 
the promise of our founding: to elevate the quality of life for our fellow 
citizens. In doing so, we give meaning and purpose to our own lives.
American colleges and universities have an opportunity to open their 
doors to all who recognize education as a powerful engine — including 
those who recognize it as a powerful engine for upward mobility.
We know that there are certain elite universities that do this quite well 
on a small scale for a few people. At Ohio State, we have the heft, 
persistence and resources to create the highest opportunity for success 
for the highest number of students. Our transformative opportunity is to 
do this more broadly — and show other universities how to do it — on a 
grander scale. 
Our plan requires enhanced uses of technology and constructive,
engaged advising to transform teaching and learning from broadly 
focused to a targeted experience. Our focus on matching Ohio State 
faculty with classroom teaching style will produce advanced outcomes 
for students. Our faculty will be well-equipped with the latest and 
most effective teaching tools. The result will be a data-driven student 
experience of a small institution with the scope, reach and opportunities 
of a national flagship public research university. Audacious perhaps, but 
we are The Ohio State University.
Simultaneously, our strategic plan demands bold advances in research 
and creative expression, health care solutions to improve lives and 
operational excellence and innovation that unite us in our singular path 
forward to lead the country’s higher education landscape.  
Ohio State is in a unique position at a unique time with unique ability. We 
know that what Ohio State does matters, and we will use this platform 
to demonstrate a new model in higher education to the individuals and 
families it serves. 
1
A land-grant tradition 
and future 
The Ohio State University was 
founded in 1870 following the 
Land-Grant College Act of 1862. 
Classes began in the fall of 1873 
with 24 students. The first class 
of six men graduated in 1878, 
followed by the first woman  
graduate in 1879.
Today, Ohio State is among the 
largest and most respected  
public research universities in  
the nation, with more than 66,000 
students on six campuses. The 
spring 2017 graduating class of 
over 11,500 was the largest in 
school history.
Ohio State is known best for 
its vibrant student experience, 
research excellence, athletic 
prowess and highly engaged 
Buckeye family. The true strength 
of Ohio State is its people. 
Buckeye Nation includes more 
than 45,000 faculty and staff as 
well as 550,000 alumni living and 
working in 170 countries across 
the globe.  
Campus of the future: 
Framework 2.0
Focused on creating the physical 
campus of the future, the 
Framework 2.0 plan imagines 
transformational research and 
learning environments over the 
next decade and beyond — with a 
strong emphasis on sustainability.
Learn more about Framework 2.0President Drake’s vision for the 
university includes three vital 
areas:
• A focus on access, affordability 
and excellence  to lower the  
cost and improve the value of  
an Ohio State education.
• A commitment to community 
engagement  to extend higher 
education and our research — 
elevating the quality of life for 
Ohio and beyond.
• The recognition of diversity and 
inclusion  as core principles in 
everything we do, from academic 
programming and resources 
to the hiring and promotion of 
faculty and staff.
Learn more about the 2020 Vision.Our university is situated in the center of the nation with connections 
that reach north to south and coast to coast. Intellectually, culturally, 
academically and emotionally, Ohio State is connected to people in all 
walks of life and in all parts of the country.
Ohio State’s leadership extends to active engagement with national 
higher education organizations focused broadly on access, affordability 
and excellence for individuals and families: the Association of American 
Universities, Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, American 
Talent Initiative, University Innovation Alliance and more. 
What Ohio State does matters. Our responsibility over the next 150 years 
is to be a fixed beacon to illuminate the path to the American Dream and 
address the most pressing issues of our time.
Time and change
Higher education is undergoing a period of unprecedented change. 
Foremost among the challenges is the rising costs of a college degree 
during an era of diminishing public funding. While research shows the 
return on investment in a college education is higher than ever before, 
making that investment has become too difficult for too many.
An excellent education must be accessible. More than half of low- and 
moderate-income students who possess the talent to excel at top 
universities, for example, do not apply to selective institutions despite 
increased graduation rates and the potential for higher future earnings. 
A direct correlation exists between what we do in higher education and 
the quality of people’s lives. Leading universities share a responsibility to 
address these issues.
Ohio State is recognized as a top 20 public university, a powerful starting 
point from where our strategic plan envisions the next meaningful steps 
in our history of excellence. We now have an extraordinary opportunity 
to build on our recognized strengths while investing strategically in areas 
that directly address what matters most to the broader community.
Planning the next steps
Strategic planning began in summer 2016, initiated by President Michael 
V. Drake and the Ohio State Board of Trustees. The effort aligns with 
and builds on the 2020 Vision for the university, introduced by President 
Drake at his 2015 investiture, and will guide and inform the priorities of 
Framework 2.0, a plan for the physical environment of the Columbus  
campus.
22020 VISION

Development of the plan occurred in collaboration with the university 
community of students, faculty and staff. We coordinated with our 
numerous colleges, departments, programs and the Wexner Medical 
Center to ensure the plan addressed the comprehensive breadth and 
complexity of one of the largest universities in the country.
Overall, we connected with more than 500 campus leaders from across 
Ohio State and received nearly 1,000 responses, suggestions and 
ideas through online engagement efforts. The planning process also 
incorporated input from vital stakeholders, including alumni, friends and 
community leaders.
Broadly, Ohio State’s mission and values have naturally guided the 
strategic planning process. Through its mission, the university is 
dedicated to:
• Creating and discovering knowledge to improve the well-being  
of our state, regional, national and global communities;
• Educating students through a comprehensive array of distinguished 
academic programs;
• Preparing a diverse student body to be leaders and engaged citizens;
• Fostering a culture of engagement and service;
• Understanding that diversity and inclusion are essential components  
of our excellence. 
Ohio State’s core values are: excellence; diversity in people and of  
ideas; inclusion; access and affordability; innovation; collaboration and 
multidisciplinary endeavor; and integrity, transparency and trust.In our labs, classrooms and other 
learning environments, diversity 
sparks innovation, strengthens 
cultural understanding, broadens 
scholarly benefits to society and 
improves the student experience.
Learn more about diversity and 
inclusion at Ohio State. Inclusive excellence
3

OHIO STATE’S ASPIRATION: 
A LEADING NATIONAL FLAGSHIP
PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITY
To make the next bold leap in Ohio State’s land-grant history of 
excellence and impact, we aspire to be a leading national flagship public 
research university.
This aspiration requires a focus on uplifting the well-being of the state, 
the nation and the global community through the dissemination of 
knowledge. It necessitates celebrating all that makes us distinctive and 
making decisions that build on our unique assets and strengths. Finally, 
it means being recognized consistently as one of the top public research 
universities in the nation.
To reach our goals, Ohio State’s strategic plan sets forth five pillars of 
focus:
TEACHING AND LEARNING  
Ohio State will be an exemplar of the best teaching, demonstrating 
leadership by adopting innovative, at-scale approaches to teaching and 
learning to improve student outcomes.  
ACCESS, AFFORDABILITY AND EXCELLENCE  
Ohio State will further our position as a leading public university offering an 
excellent, affordable education and promoting economic diversity.
RESEARCH AND CREATIVE EXPRESSION  
Ohio State will enhance our position among the top national and 
international public universities in research and creative expression, both 
across the institution and in targeted fields — driving significant advances 
for critical societal challenges.
ACADEMIC HEALTH CARE  
The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center will continue our ascent 
as a leading academic medical center, pioneering breakthrough health 
care solutions and improving people’s lives.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND RESOURCE STEWARDSHIP  
Ohio State will be an exemplar of best practices in resource stewardship, 
operational effectiveness, and efficiency and innovation.II
III
IV
V
4IDisciplina in civitatem 
These Latin words are the  
university motto. Inscribed on  
Ohio State’s seal, they translate  
to “Education for citizenship” — a  
reflection of our land-grant  
foundation and the university's 
core commitment to outreach and 
engagement that uplifts the world 
around us.
Learn more about outreach and  
engagement at Ohio State.

TEACHING AND LEARNINGI
5What is our aspiration?
Ohio State will be an exemplar of the best teaching, demonstrating leadership 
by adopting innovative, at-scale approaches to teaching and learning to 
improve student outcomes.
Why is this important?
Teaching and learning are cornerstones of Ohio State’s mission and critical for 
student success. In a time of rapidly changing teaching and learning practices, 
Ohio State strives to be at the forefront of researching, adopting and creating 
practices that improve student success in the classroom and beyond.
While some public universities have centers for teaching and learning, Ohio 
State has an opportunity to demonstrate leadership at a national level by 
adopting pioneering, at-scale approaches and measuring their effectiveness. 
The benefits to our students will be significant — not just through a more 
effective classroom experience, but also faster time to degree completion, 
which translates into less debt.
What are our concrete goals?
1. Achieve broadest possible participation in high-quality professional  
development programs for teachers;
2. Recognize and reward excellence among our teachers;
3. Staff critical courses in line with demonstrated teaching excellence;
4. Gain a pre-eminent external reputation as a leader and innovator in teaching 
and learning practices, scholarship and outcomes.
What specific targets are we setting for ourselves?
1. Achieve broadest possible participation in high-quality professional  
development programs for teachers
• Enroll all new teachers in the Faculty FIT (Foundations, Impact, Transformation) 
program at the University Institute for Teaching and Learning (UITL); 
• Encourage the majority of teachers to regularly participate in teaching-
enrichment programs;
• Certify 80 percent or more of each department’s teachers through a teaching 
professional-development program;
• Diffuse and adopt at-scale proven best practices in teaching and learning.Best practices in teaching 
The University Institute for 
Teaching and Learning  — the first 
of its kind at Ohio State — was 
established in May 2016 to expand 
support of faculty and create 
national best practices in the 
classroom.
The quality of teaching during 
the first two years of college has 
a profound impact on student 
success. This faculty-led institute 
is dedicated to working across 
disciplines to elevate this important 
work.
Learn more about the University 
Institute for T eaching and Learning.

62. Recognize and reward teaching excellence
• Measure teaching effectiveness across all teachers through robust and fair  
systems, based on pedagogy research;
• Reward and provide public recognition for excellence in teaching.
3. Staff critical courses in line with demonstrated teaching excellence
• Staff critical courses with the most effective teachers in each department.
4. Gain a pre-eminent external reputation as a leader and innovator in teaching 
and learning
• Gain public recognition as a leader in teaching and learning practices,  
scholarship and outcomes;
• Become regarded as a national leader in empirical research and in the use  
of advanced analytics to study the impact of teaching effectiveness on  
student outcomes;
• Produce high-impact publications and online resources on best  
practices and innovations in teaching.
What types of initiatives will help us achieve our goals?
1. Achieve broadest possible participation in high-quality professional  
development programs for teachers
• Develop, refine and scale high-quality professional development programs  
and instructional support for teachers across the university;
• Incentivize individuals and departments to maximize participation;
• Centralize teaching and learning organizations and leverage scale to maximize 
cross-pollination and adoption of best practices.
2. Recognize and reward teaching excellence
• Develop robust and fair metrics and methods to measure teaching 
effectiveness;
• Reward teaching excellence with financial incentives and prestigious awards.
3. Staff critical courses in line with demonstrated teaching excellence
• Identify courses that are critical to students’ success;
• Identify best practices and design optimal staffing models, processes and 
incentives to align each department's best teachers with courses most critical to 
student success.
4. Gain a pre-eminent external reputation as a leader and innovator in teaching 
and learning
• Lead the nation in cutting-edge teaching and learning research, publishing 
analyses on Ohio State’s innovations and sharing resources on a dynamic web-
based platform;
• Use advanced analytics to conduct empirical research on indicators of student 
success;
• Host national annual conference on teaching and learning at Ohio State.Co-curricular engagement 
Learning and development takes 
place both inside and outside 
the classroom through nationally 
recognized programs that create an 
extraordinary student experience. 
Ohio State's comprehensive 
approach ranges from first-year 
seminars and the Second-year 
Transformational Experience 
Program to service-learning and 
learning communities to capstone 
courses, projects and internships. 
According to Gallup and Student 
Life data, co-curricular learning is an 
important contributor to student and 
alumni development and success.  
•   Involved students are 2.6 times
    more likely to report having
    grown as a result of their
    experience at Ohio State   
•  64 percent of alumni who  
     engaged in experiential learning  
     report being engaged at work,  
     compared to 31 percent of  
     alumni who did not
•  22 percent of alumni who  
     strongly agree they engaged in  
     experiential learning are thriving  
     in all five areas of well-being  
     (career, social, financial, physical,  
     community), compared to 9  
     percent who did not
Learn more about the student 
experience .

ACCESS, AFFORDABILITY  
AND EXCELLENCEII
7What is our aspiration?
Ohio State will further our position as a leading public university offering an 
excellent, affordable education and promoting economic diversity.
Why is this important?
Providing inclusive access and an excellent and affordable education is core  
to our mission as a public land-grant university. Since 2000, tuition costs per 
student at public institutions have increased by 64 percent. The average debt  
for graduates of four-year universities has nearly doubled since 2004, with  
more than two-thirds of students graduating with some level of debt.
Ohio State has an opportunity to implement and scale innovative strategies to 
create more pathways to college for more students through our leadership  
and participation in the national dialogue on higher education.
What are our concrete goals?
1. Be a leader among public universities in enrollment of talented low- and  
moderate-income students;
2. Achieve excellence by improving first-year retention and four-year 
graduation rates with a focus on bridging the gap in performance between  
underrepresented populations and the overall student body, across the  
Columbus and regional campuses;
3. Improve affordability and reduce indebtedness through a new financial aid 
policy for all low- and moderate-income in-state students on the Columbus 
campus and additional scholarships for highly talented low-income students.
What specific targets are we setting for ourselves?
1. Increase enrollment of talented low- and moderate-income students
• Be among the top public universities in enrollment of Pell-eligible students at  
the Columbus campus;
• Maintain or improve current talent levels of incoming freshmen at the Columbus 
campus.
2. Improve first-year retention and four-year graduation rates
• Minimize the gap in first-year retention rates between underrepresented 
populations and the rest of the student body; 
• Improve overall first-year retention rates, reaching 95 percent at the Columbus 
campus and 71 percent at the regional campuses;
• Minimize the gap in four-year graduation rates between underrepresented 
populations and the rest of the student body; Leading the national  
conversation  
Ohio State is a founding member  
of the American Talent Initiative ,  
a national effort to increase the 
number of low- and moderate-
income students by 50,000 at up to 
270 top-performing institutions.
 “By taking part in the American 
Talent Initiative, you are helping 
to bring about transformational 
change for college-aged students 
and their families across the 
nation. Our work together will  
enable more young people to
    fulfill their potential and 
   achieve their dreams. ”
      Michael R. Bloomberg
      Bloomberg Philanthropies
The university is also a charter 
member of the University 
Innovation Alliance , a coalition 
of 11 public research universities 
committed to expanding access 
to higher education and student 
success through innovative and 
collective solutions.
Learn more about the American 
Talent Initiative  and University 
Innovation Alliance .

83.  Improve affordability and reduce indebtedness
• Establish a new financial aid policy for new in-state students at the  
Columbus campus:
− Meet full unmet need up to cost-of-attendance for all low-income  
students through a combination of gift aid, loans and/or work-study;
− Significantly reduce unmet need for all moderate-income students 
through a combination of gift aid, loans and/or work-study.
• Meet the full cost of tuition for high-talent, high-need students at the  
Columbus campus from the lower half of the income distribution.
What types of initiatives will help us achieve our goals?
1.  Increase enrollment of talented low- and moderate-income students
• Enhance outreach programs targeting low-and moderate-income 
prospects, including communications strategy and digital tools; 
• Increase enrollment of low-income students at the Columbus campus;
• Develop and launch unique events and programs for low- and moderate-
income students (e.g., alumni networking events, internships, etc.).
2. Improve first-year retention and four-year graduation rates
• Improve ratio of students-to-academic advisors for all students, and, in 
particular, for underrepresented populations;
• Develop advanced analytics to identify and monitor key indicators of at-
risk students to enable early interventions;
• Enhance support programs and design new targeted interventions, e.g., 
implement learnings from First in the World grant and the Second-year 
Transformational Experience Program (STEP);
• Ensure the offering of core requirement courses meets the full demand so 
students can progress and graduate on time;
• Enhance career services program to assist low- and moderate-income 
students in finding internships and jobs.
3. Improve affordability and reduce indebtedness
• Design a new financial aid policy for low- and moderate-income students;
• Create additional scholarships for high-talent, high-need students;
• Implement new financial aid program and scholarships incrementally with 
new cohorts of students.
.
RESEARCH AND  
CREATIVE EXPRESSIONIII
Advancing and uplifting lives
From the landmark development 
of the feline leukemia vaccine and 
groundbreaking computer animation 
to the world's first solar battery, Ohio 
State has a history of research and 
creative expression that impacts 
society. 
Recent examples:
Ohio State faculty member Ann 
Hamilton is an internationally renowned 
visual artist and leading figure in 
contemporary art. She was awarded 
the National Medal of Arts by President 
Barack Obama, joining actress Sally 
Field and author Stephen King in 
accepting the highest award given 
to artists and arts patrons by the U.S. 
government. 
For the first time in medical history, a 
paralyzed man moved his fingers and 
hand using his own thoughts — the 
result of a partnership between the 
Wexner Medical Center's Neurological 
Institute and Battelle. The stunning 
scientific achievement has been 
reported across the nation and the 
world.What is our aspiration?
Ohio State will enhance our position among the top national and international 
public universities in research and creative expression, both across the 
institution and in targeted fields — driving significant advances for critical 
societal challenges.
Why is this important?
Ohio State’s tradition of collaboration and innovation has set us apart and  
fostered intellectual curiosity and high-impact research for generations.  
Our university’s strength lies in the extraordinary breadth and scale of our  
research efforts. Ohio State is committed to convening the greatest minds  
to push the boundaries of fundamental and translational research and  
solve societal challenges.
What are our concrete goals?
1. Attract, retain and support leading national scholars and rising stars in newly 
designed professorship program;
2. Be a national leader in prioritized research and creative expression areas  
that will drive positive societal impact and in which we have an opportunity  
to make a difference;
3. Provide world-class support and enhance accountability for our faculty  
researchers. 
What specific targets are we setting for ourselves?
1. Attract, retain and support leading national scholars and rising stars
• Recruit top scholars and rising stars, internally and from across the country, and 
retain them in new “Presidential Professorships” program.
2. Be a national leader in prioritized research and creative expression areas
• Substantially increase extramural funding to create opportunities for 
groundbreaking research;
• Focus efforts to increase the number of our faculty who receive prestigious 
accolades and are recognized for the impact of their research; 
• Invest in prioritized research and creative expression areas in order to foster 
an environment where researchers can thrive, collaborate and solve the most 
complex challenges: 
− Faculty champions recruited for each initiative to orchestrate the effort;
– Dedicated state-of-the-art facilities;
– New faculty recruited, supported and retained;
– Among the top ranked in extramural grants and funding for each focus area;
– Translation of research to groundbreaking solutions; 
– Realization of commercialization success.
9

3. Provide world-class research support and accountability for researchers
• Provide best-in-class support for new and existing research opportunities (e.g., 
central grant support, attractive program for postdoctoral scholars and graduate 
research associates);
• Develop and apply rigorous performance management standards (e.g., 
individual accountability metrics, stage gates for measuring progress) across the 
university.
What types of initiatives will help us achieve our goals?
1. Attract, retain and support leading national scholars and rising stars
• Target a mix of established leaders and rising stars, internally screened and from 
across the country, including capable leaders of interdisciplinary initiatives;
• Design and offer attractive compensation and start-up packages, and build 
scholar program incrementally by developing the prestige of the program and 
attracting the most talented researchers.
2. Be a national leader in prioritized research and creative expression areas
• Continuously apply robust criteria to refine list of prioritized research and  
creative expression areas;
• Identify or recruit faculty champions to orchestrate and lead prioritized areas;
• Develop, dedicate and build out cutting-edge research and creative expression 
spaces (e.g., new research tower, performance spaces);
• Recruit top-tier researchers;
• Host annual R&D and innovation challenges and events, attracting national  
recognition and new partnerships.
3. Provide world-class research support and accountability for researchers
• Continue to monitor performance of broad research areas critical to sustained 
student and university success;
• Develop and implement robust and fair metrics and processes to measure  
research performance at the individual and programmatic level;
• Scale up central research support function to accelerate funding, improve  
commercialization success, and identify and cross-pollinate research best  
practices;
• Recruit additional talented postdoctoral scholars and graduate research  
associates.Innovative research  
partnership
 
Columbus, Ohio, beat out more than 
70 competitors nationwide to be 
named the U.S. Department of  
Transportation’s Smart City.
Ohio State is the lead research 
partner in the effort. University 
scientists and facilities are playing a 
central role in implementing the $140 
million program to develop model 
innovative transportation strategies 
for the region and nation.
Learn more about Smart Columbus.
10

ACADEMIC HEALTH CAREIV
What is our aspiration?
The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center will continue our ascent 
as a leading academic medical center, pioneering breakthrough health care 
solutions and improving people’s lives.
 
Why is this important?
The Wexner Medical Center plays a critical role in serving the health needs of 
our community and driving national breakthroughs in research that ultimately 
save lives. 
Our university has an opportunity to grow the size and excellence of our health 
system enterprise to meet the evolving needs of Ohioans and to enhance our 
national reputation as a leader in academic medicine.
What are our concrete goals?
1. Foster an environment to attract and develop a diverse and talented team 
committed to a culture of innovation and diversity;
2. Pioneer life-altering biomedical discoveries and their translation into  
breakthrough health care solutions;
3. Create an innovative health care delivery model that provides high-value  
care with an unparalleled patient experience and access;
4. Implement an innovative interdisciplinary educational model to educate the 
most diverse and sought-after health professionals in the world;
5. Create healthy communities and partnerships by addressing Ohio’s most 
pressing health needs;
6. Be a responsible steward of all resources.
What specific targets are we setting for ourselves?
1. Foster an environment to attract and develop a diverse and talented team 
committed to a culture of innovation and diversity
• Create and sustain a culture that inspires our workforce to live the organizational 
values;
• Design and implement a high-touch, high-value recruitment process that attracts 
and recruits world-class talent;
• Design and implement an innovative and flexible compensation and benefit 
model that ensures talent is aligned and engaged around the medical center’s 
aspiration;
• Develop a robust faculty, staff and leadership development program that 
inspires medical center talent to realize their full potential.Excellence in  
clinical services
The Ohio State University Wexner  
Medical Center provides exemplary 
clinical care in virtually every 
medical discipline, leveraging the 
talent of more than 1,000 physicians, 
the resources of seven hospitals 
and a robust network of community-
based care centers to manage more 
than 1 million patient visits annually. 
•  25 consecutive designations by    
     U.S. News & World Report  as one  
     of America's "Best Hospitals"
•  Four straight Vizient Quality  
     Leadership Awards for  
     outcomes, safety, efficiency,  
     effectiveness, equity and  
     patient experience
•  Healthgrades’ 2016 Distinguished  
     Hospital Award for Clinical  
     Excellence — a distinction  
     reserved for the top 5 percent  
     of hospitals in the nation
•  First health system in central  
     Ohio to have a hospital achieve  
     Magnet Recognition, one of the  
     highest honors awarded for  
     nursing excellence; the Ross  
     Heart Hospital, University 
    Hospital and The James are all     
     designated Magnet hospitals
•  Five consecutive years on  
     Becker’s "100 Great  
     Hospitals in America" list
11

2. Pioneer life-altering biomedical discoveries through research
• Become a national leader in biomedical breakthroughs and the translation of 
research into health care solutions;
• Significantly increase extramural funding for health sciences research;
• Attract, recruit, inspire and retain world-class talent through a rigorous, 
enthusiastic and collaborative culture.
3. Create an innovative health care delivery model
• Grow tertiary and quaternary care;
• Provide high-quality, highly accessible and patient-focused care that exceeds 
expectations;
• Deliver interprofessional team-based care focused on the health and wellness 
of individuals and populations;
• Expand the medical center’s local and regional reach through new access 
points as well as strategic partnerships across the continuum of care.
4. Implement an innovative interdisciplinary educational model
• Advance the education mission of the university, health sciences colleges  
and the College of Medicine through learner-centered innovation and faculty 
engagement;
• Implement disruptive innovations that will establish Ohio State as a forward-
thinking leader in delivering education to learners.
5. Create healthy communities and partnerships
• Improve the health and wellness of our communities;
• Serve as the provider of choice in all major central Ohio communities;
• Provide an accessible and exceptional patient experience;
• Address the most pressing health needs of our community – access to care, 
chronic disease, infectious disease, obesity, infant mortality and behavioral 
health.
6. Be a responsible steward of all resources
• Make a positive financial contribution to the enterprise;
• Operate more efficiently to fund our strategic investments and growth;
• Align fundraising goals with strategic objectives.
A comprehensive strategic plan for the Wexner Medical Center has been
developed in coordination and alignment with the goals and targets outlined
in the university’s strategic plan. 
12
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
AND RESOURCE STEWARDSHIPV
What is our aspiration?
Ohio State will be an exemplar of best practices in resource stewardship, 
operational effectiveness, and efficiency and innovation.
Why is this important?
Operational excellence is foundational to the success of our strategic vision 
for the future. The university must be a responsible steward of its resources in 
order to re-direct investment into initiatives that will help us to achieve our bold 
aspirations. 
We have the opportunity to operate more efficiently while also operating more 
effectively. We can work smarter to deliver even better service levels at lower 
cost. 
What are our concrete goals?
1. Capture hundreds of millions in savings at the university and the Wexner 
Medical Center over seven years for strategic uses; 
2. Realize significant improvements in end-user service levels  
(e.g., project timelines, turnaround times, self-service);
3. Simplify core processes and streamline financial mechanisms to create  
unprecedented transparency and agility;
4. Capture hundreds of millions in innovative revenue-generation opportunities 
and the required funds to fuel our strategy through a bold new fundraising 
campaign; 
5. Maintain levels of local, state and federal support and capture new local,  
state and federal opportunities for capital projects.
What specific targets are we setting for ourselves?
1. Capture efficiencies for strategic uses
• Capture hundreds of millions in efficiencies across the university and health  
system without compromising effectiveness.
2. Realize significant improvements in end-user service levels
• Drive 10 to 20 percent improvement in service levels, turnaround times,  
quality standards and consistency across administrative support functions;
• Foster a culture of transparency, accountability and continuous improvement.
13Unprecedented investment
The Comprehensive Energy 
Management Project (CEMP) will 
help make Ohio State a world 
leader in sustainability and 
advance teaching, learning and 
research through the single largest 
investment in the university's 
academic mission.
It promises to modernize campus, 
create substantial academic 
benefits and establish a major 
center for research and technology 
commercialization.
Learn more about CEMP.
“These thoroughly planned 
partnerships, the magnitude 
of which sets Ohio State apart 
from its peers, contribute to a 
significant increase in financial 
reserves and greater revenue 
diversity, credit positives for one 
of the nation’s 10 largest public 
universities. ”

3. Simplify core processes and create unprecedented transparency and agility
• Empower decision-makers to drive operational excellence;
• Improve budget processes to enable transparent reporting, value capture and 
flexibility;
• Design and implement performance management systems;
• Deliver a new ERP system on time and on budget that will digitize and simplify 
core processes.
4. Capture innovative revenues and strategic fundraising
• Capture hundreds of millions through innovative revenue-generation  
opportunities;
• Generate required funds for strategic priorities through a strategic fundraising 
campaign.
5. Maintain levels of local, state and federal support and capture  
new opportunities
• Maintain current levels of local, state and federal support;
• Capture incremental local, state and federal support for capital  
projects through new opportunities.
What types of initiatives will help us achieve our goals?
1. Capture efficiencies for strategic uses; 2. Realize significant improvements  
in end-user service levels; and 3. Simplify core processes and create  
unprecedented transparency and agility
• Create a Transformation Office and an integrated transformation plan, including  
a portfolio of initiatives linked to a timeline, targets, initiative owners and  
integrated communications plan;
• Design the management system to enable value capture and value assurance 
throughout the transformation, including governance and decision-making,  
budget and financial processes, and performance management;
• Capture “quick wins” to build momentum and unlock resources early on  
for strategic initiatives; 
• Design and implement identified opportunities;
• Execute Workday planning, design and implementation;
• Investigate other opportunities through diagnostics and pursue new initiatives.
4. Capture innovative revenues and strategic fundraising
• Launch strategic fundraising campaign;
• Explore innovative revenue generation (e.g., our new energy partnership);
• Pursue new revenue opportunities strategically and opportunistically.
5. Maintain levels of local, state and federal support and capture  
new opportunities
• Work with policymakers to ensure appropriate funding for the university;
• Explore new opportunities for local, state and federal support outside  
of traditional revenue streams.
14State partnerships  
and support
As the state’s flagship university, 
Ohio State enjoys a long-standing 
and productive partnership with the 
state of Ohio. The state provides 
operational support to the university 
as well as capital support for the 
construction and maintenance of 
university assets. To bolster support 
for Ohio students most in need, the 
state awards grants to offset the 
cost of tuition. Ohio State Extension, 
with offices in all 88 Ohio counties, 
is supported by state funding.
Faculty conduct contract-based  
research to help the state 
and industry partners address 
contemporary public- and private-
sector challenges. Ohio State 
also hosts the Ohio Technology 
Consortium, the Ohio Department 
of Higher Education’s statewide 
technology infrastructure, which 
is utilized by higher education 
institutions across Ohio.

IMPLEMENTATION
Translating our bold strategy into execution will be the work of all Buckeyes, 
requiring strong leadership, an unwavering commitment to our aspirations, 
a collaborative culture and continued engagement across the university 
community and with our many important stakeholders. 
Our dedication to successfully implementing our strategic plan will be 
reinforced by our long-range financial plan, Framework 2.0, a talent plan 
and a fundraising campaign plan. The development of our plans has been 
thorough and comprehensive, with detailed project development, risk 
assessments, budgets and progress metrics.
To ensure clear accountability and ownership at all levels of the plan — by 
pillar, by initiative and overall — we will name and vest leaders from across 
the university with the responsibility, personnel and support necessary to 
implement our five pillars of focus. 
Measuring our progress will be essential to achieving our aspirations. We 
will hold ourselves accountable through robust performance management, 
rigorous project management, and transparent tracking and reporting of our 
progress against pre-defined goals. 
To be successful, our plan requires all of us working together to embody a 
culture that embraces innovation, collaboration and forward progress. Close 
engagement with all of our diverse stakeholders will be critical to building 
and maintaining momentum as we celebrate successes and milestones 
along the way. 
The ambitious scale of our strategic plan has never before been attempted 
and will require flexibility, agility and sound judgment as we navigate the 
future. Above all else, we will rely on our incredible people — students, 
faculty, staff, alumni, community and business partners, government leaders 
and more — to help us achieve our bold aspirations for Ohio State over the 
coming decade and beyond. Destination Ohio State  
Beyond our faculty, staff and student 
community, Ohio State regularly 
welcomes visitors from across the 
country and around the world.
 
Competitions in 36 varsity sports 
along with a wide range of activities 
hosted at some of the most 
recognized event centers in the 
region and the nation — including 
Ohio Stadium, the Wexner Center 
for the Arts, the Ohio Union, the 
Jerome Schottenstein Center, the 
Blackwell Inn, the Longaberger 
Alumni House, the Fawcett Center, 
campus recreation facilities and 
University Housing — attract 8 
million visitors to 105,000 events 
each year.
 
The annual economic impact is well 
over $350 million.
15
CONCLUSION
Ohio State stands at the doorway of great opportunity, firmly and uniquely 
positioned to be a leading national flagship public research university. 
We endeavor to build upon our existing strengths and advance our focus 
in areas that define excellence in 21st century higher education: teaching 
and learning; access, affordability and excellence; research and creative 
expression; academic health care; and operational excellence and resource 
stewardship.
The university’s path forward honors our rich history of educating the sons 
and daughters of Ohio, engaging communities the world over through 
scholarship and outreach, and uplifting all lives that connect with our 
students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends.
Now are the next steps.
Our ambitions are bold because that is the Ohio State way. Our 
responsibility is great because families in Ohio and beyond require us to be 
the very best we can be. Our future is bright because we are  
Buckeyes — and we have 150 years of excellence to help light the way.
Chart our updates and progress at go.osu.edu/strategicplan .
A world without Ohio State? 
Unimaginable.  
What Ohio State does matters. 
According to a Gallup survey, 
Buckeye alumni reported they could 
not imagine a world without Ohio 
State.
More than 750,000 donors 
supported the But for Ohio 
State  Campaign, likely the most 
donors ever to a higher education 
campaign. They gave Ohio State 
a record $3 billion to support the 
academic mission and vision in 
several areas: placing students first, 
driving research and innovation, 
elevating faculty and the academic 
enterprise, and creating modern 
learning environments.
16
