1
VISION 2040 ANDSTRATEGIC FRAMEWORK2019–2024
FORWARD TOGETHER  SAAM VORENTOEMASIYE PHAMBILI  

2OUR VISION 2040Stellenbosch University will be Africa’s leading research-intensive university, globally recognised as excellent, inclusive and innovative, where we advance knowledge in service of society.OUR MISSIONStellenbosch University is a research-intensive university where we attract outstanding students,  employ talented staff and provide a world-class environment; a place connected to the world, while enriching and transforming local, continental and global communities.OUR CORE STRATEGIC THEMES 2019–2024
A THRIVING  STELLENBOSCH UNIVERSITY
A TRANSFORMATIVE STUDENT EXPERIENCE
NETWORKED AND COLLABORATIVE TEACHING AND LEARNING
RESEARCH FOR IMPACT
PURPOSEFUL PARTNERSHIPS  AND INCLUSIVE NETWORKS
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
1CONTENTSFOREWORD BY THE RECTOR AND VICE-CHANCELLOR, PROF WIM DE VILLIERSMESSAGE FROM THE DEPUTY VICE-CHANCELLOR: STRATEGY AND INTERNATIONALISATION, PROF HESTER C. KLOPPER1.  INTRODUCTION          2.  THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING VISION 2040 AND   STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2019–2024          3.  APPROACH TO THE STRATEGIC PROCESS               4.  CONGRUENCY AND ALIGNMENT OF STRATEGIES 5.  CONTEXT   5.1  Complexity and contingency  5.2  Knowledge economy and collaborative knowledge production    5.3  Collaborative learning  5.4  Innovation  5.5  Pressure on public funds for higher education		 5 . 6		Massification  5.7  Diversity  5.8  Network society  5.9  Internationalisation  5.10 Sustainability  5.11  Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and technology6.  VISION 2040  6.1  Vision 2040  6.2 Mission  6.3 Values  6.4  Attributes  6.5 Enablers7.  STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2019–2024  7.1  Core strategic theme 1: A transformative student experience  7.2  Core strategic theme 2: Networked and collaborative teaching and learning  7.3  Core strategic theme 3: Research for impact  7.4  Core strategic theme 4: Purposeful partnerships and inclusive networks  7.5  Core strategic theme 5: Employer of choice  7.6  Core strategic theme 6: A thriving Stellenbosch University8.  STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT INDICATORS  8.1  Principles for developing strategic management indicators  8.2 High-level measures for six core strategic themes        8.2.1   A transformative student experience        8.2.2  Networked and collaborative teaching and learning        8.2.3  Research for impact        8.2.4  Purposeful partnerships and inclusive networks        8.2.5  Employer of choice        8.2.6  A thriving Stellenbosch University9.  REFERENCES124 47810          10                                 10                                                                                           11                  11                                                     11                                                                                                      11                                                                                                 11                                                                                                11              12                  12       12 14 14 15 16         16 17 19 20 20 21 22 23 23 26 26 27 27 27 28 28 29 29 31
1FOREWORD  BY THE RECTOR AND VICE-CHANCELLOR,  PROF WIM DE VILLIERSUniversities and their inhabitants are both sources of wonder.  Universities are institutions for the ages. Their reputations and cultures  are built over centuries and represent much more than the sum of all  the individuals that had passed through their doors and halls. Yet, each  generation makes an important contribution.  Universities differ from one another in many respects. They differ in terms  of the communities they serve, their emphasis on different issues at various  points in time, and the challenges and opportunities they face over time. This constant  evolution requires circumspect responses from the range of individuals involved in a university at any  given moment. The histories of universities are much like epic journeys with many legends and stories.  As Stellenbosch University (SU) is entering its second century, it has also built a distinct reputation  and culture, with many legends and stories. Individual students, academics and professional administrative  support staff (PASS) at all universities are transient, coming and going over time, but the institution  itself remains.  As the current Rector and Vice-Chancellor, I am proud to lead SU in its Centenary year. I am also very  proud of the capable and committed staff and students the University is fortunate enough to have.  Together,	as	responsible	stewards,	we	want	to	add	to	the	SU	legacy	for	the	benefit	of	future	generations.			We want to position SU as the leading research-intensive university on the African continent and a consequential university in the world. To this end, we work to consolidate the strengths, mitigate or even eliminate the weaknesses, explore and exploit the opportunities, and weather the threats, ideally turning them into opportunities. How do we know that we are succeeding? One, although by no means the foremost, indicator of success is the rankings assigned by international higher education ratings agencies. Other measures of success are the satisfaction of those who make use of what we offer (students, parents, employers, partners, etc.) and the professional judgement of external peers. However, these indicators should also be augmented with the high standards we set for ourselves so that we can hold one another accountable in the interest of our University.  Once a generation has set its priorities, it also needs a chart or map to steer by against the backdrop of the	current	context	and	in	anticipation	of	the	future.	For	the	past	five	years,	the	SU Institutional Intent and Strategy 2013–2018 and its accompanying Vision 2030 have guided SU’s journey. This valuable “road map” expires in 2018. Therefore, this new Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 has been crafted under the competent leadership of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Strategy and Internationalisation,  Prof Hester Klopper.  Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024	is	our	contribution	for	the	benefit	of	future	SU	generations. It contains six core strategic themes, namely a transformative student experience, networked and collaborative teaching and learning, research for impact, purposeful partnerships and inclusive networks, employer of choice, and a thriving SU. We believe these will guide us towards being a university with an impeccable institutional reputation – being systemically sustainable and transformed –	with	a	focused	offering,	a	collaborative	learning	and	teaching	model,	research	of	significance,	and	an	all-encompassing impact, including a strong impact on society. Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 was developed taking into account South Africa’s National Development Plan, the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. It bears testimony to SU’s commitment to being a university that is relevant to its context and is of service to our country and continent – an inclusive, world-class university in and for Africa.   Let us move forward together, using this as our road map.Prof Wim (WJS) de Villiers

2
We are pleased to present the Stellenbosch University (SU)  Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 in the University’s  Centenary year. While this strategic framework will be our guide for  the next six years, it is important to understand that it forms part of  a trajectory and builds on previous strategic documents. Leading and  coordinating the development of Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework  2019–2024 has been a challenging yet rewarding experience. It was crucial  to approach the process in a manner that would provide the opportunity for extended engagement  outside the senior management group who provided continuous input on the various drafts, as well  as beyond Council and Senate’s approval and acceptance of the vision and strategy. For this reason,  we decided on a three-phased approach, namely strategy development (July 2016 to May 2018),  strategy uptake (July 2018 to June 2019) and strategy alignment (July 2018 to June 2020). The latter  two phases offer the prospect of engagement across the various responsibility centres, faculties and  divisions, working collectively to implement the inspiring core strategic themes and goals to set SU  apart in the years to come.  The vision and strategy are unapologetically bold, with the aspiration of being Africa’s leading research-intensive	university	that	enjoys	global	recognition.	The	strategy	will	stretch	us	and	will	require	significant	investment,	but	we	are	confident	that	it	maximises	our	strengths,	while	allowing	us	space	to	grow.	In	 the words of Malcolm X: “The future belongs to those who prepare for it today.”Forward together. Masiye phambili. Saam vorentoe.Prof Hester C. Klopper MESSAGE  FROM THE DEPUTY VICE-CHANCELLOR:  STRATEGY AND INTERNATIONALISATION, PROF HESTER C. KLOPPER
3THE STRATEGIC APPROACH

41.  INTRODUCTIONVision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 articulates the positioning of Stellenbosch University (SU) as a leading research-intensive South African university in Africa, with a global reach. The strategic framework builds on the excellent work that followed from the Strategic Framework for the turn of the Century and Beyond (2000), Vision 2030 and the Institutional Intent and Strategy (IIS) 2013–2018. At the same time, it has given us the	opportunity	to	reflect	on	the	way	forward	and	our	response	to	the	challenges	in	higher	education	in	South Africa and beyond. The aim of this strategic framework is to guide SU’s future positioning, direct SU’s strategy and illustrate where and how the University is positioned. The core strategic themes for 2019 to 2024 provide a framework for further planning. The detailed planning forms part of the annual Institutional Plan (IP) and serves to integrate and effectively coordinate SU’s institutional strategy, priorities and goals. The respective environmental plans of responsibility centres, faculties and professional administrative support services (PASS) will be aligned with this strategic framework and the IP. Clearly, we are embarking on an era of working on cross-cutting themes, thus resulting in a matrix management model. This document is the outcome of phase 1 of the strategic process, which was conducted from July 2016 to June 2018. It is important to note that this strategic framework is a guiding document that presents the future positioning of the University in light of input received from the various annual planning processes. The detailed contents, including objectives, implementation plans, timeframes	and	identified	champions,	will	be	developed	during	the	strategy	uptake	process. 2. THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING VISION 2040 AND      STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2019–2024 The Institutional Intent and Strategy (IIS) 2013–2018 outlined the positioning of the University for the 2 1st century. That positioning was anchored in three strategic priorities, namely broadening access, sustaining excellence and enhancing societal impact, as well as four strategic focus areas, being student success, diversity, the knowledge base, and systemic sustainability. Vision 2030 featured inclusivity, innovation, future focus and transformation as its main characteristics. The realisation of Vision 2030 was supported by three strategic priorities, namely broadening access, maintaining excellence, and increasing SU’s impact on society. For the 2016–2021 Institutional Plan (IP), internationalisation and enhancing systemic transformation were added, and for the 2017–2022 IP, enhancing systemic sustainability and executing the Campus Renewal Project. Together, these seven institutional strategies have been the guiding framework for the 2018–2023 IP and are embedded in the SU business model.SU embarked on the process of crafting Vision 2040 in July 2016, when a task team was established to review	the	vision	and	strategy.	Planning	was	initiated	and	the	first	opportunity	for	input	was	provided	at	the	Institutional Planning Forum (IPF) in February 2017. The two themes of the IPF were “SU within the context of higher education” and “On the way to the new vision and strategy”. The discussion of Vision 2040 centred on the institution’s strategic choices and aspirations, how to make those aspirations a reality, and what needs to change for the aspirations to be realised. A survey conducted amongst the IPF participants during January 2017 in preparation of the February 2017 IPF, included the following key questions:  • If we look 25 years into the future, what will SU be known for in 2040?• What will take us there?• What should change to get us to the SU of 2040?• Are our current values the values that will take us to the SU of 2040?• What is your understanding, within a university context, of systemic sustainability?• The higher education landscape is changing for various reasons. What do you envisage the landscape   to look like in 20 years?• Where do you envisage SU being positioned/functioning within this landscape?
5At	the	IPF,	five	task	groups	were	established	to	work	on	certain	focus	areas	that	would	define	the	way	forward, namely:• values;• research themes;• size and shape;• bursaries and loans; and• performance indicators.The Executive Planning Forum (EPF) in July 2017 consolidated the core elements of SU’s Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024. The core themes that had emerged from the IPF questionnaire were extensively	discussed.	Seven	important	themes	were	identified,	namely	excellence,	teaching	innovation,	research, social impact, internationalisation, student-focused and innovation. The task groups also reported back on their work. The outcome of the EPF was clarity on the University’s positioning for the future (Vision 2040),	an	understanding	of	the	identified	core	themes,	and	support	for	the	notion	“if	we	change	nothing,	nothing will change”. The	proposed	core	strategic	themes	were	presented	and	refined	at	the	Rectorate	meeting	of	23	January	2018.	The	refined	core	strategic	themes	and	draft	goals	were	subjected	to	a	further	round	of	refinement	at	the	annual	IPF	on	13	and	14	February	2018.	The	goals	per	core	strategic	theme	were	identified	and	formulated, and some objectives and performance indicators were suggested for each core strategic theme and goal. A visual summary of the process followed in developing the new vision and strategic framework (2019–2024)	is	presented	in	the	following	flow	diagram.
6Figure 1: Process followed in developing Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024
“Nothing we do can change the past,  but everything we do changes the future.” – Ashleigh Brilliant201620182017JULY•  Executive Planning Forum.     A task group chaired by    the Deputy Vice   Chancellor: Strategy     and Internationalisation is   tasked to initiate process   for the review of the   vision and strategy.JANUARY• The	Rectorate	finalises	and approves the vision and mission elements, as well as the values and discusses proposed core strategic themes for the    Strategic Framework.FEBRUARY• The IPF provides input on the proposed core strategies	and	identifies	institutional goals for each of the strategies. MARCH• The proposed core strategic themes and institutional goals are presented to the    SU Council.  MAY• The following SU  structures recommend that the SU Council  accepts the proposed new vision and strategic framework:      o  Social and Business      Ethics Committee of      Council      o  Institutional Forum      o  Executive Committee         of Senate      o  Executive Committee          of Council      o  Senate 18 JUNE• The SU Council approves Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024. JANUARY•   Preparation for Institutional Planning Forum (IPF)     o   Provides input regarding the SU of the future and elements       for success      -   An online questionnaire containing seven questions was       sent to all participants prior to the forum.        1.  If we look 25 years into the future, what will SU be            known for in 2040?       2.  What will take us there?        3.  What should change to get us to the SU of 2040?        4.  Are our current values the values that will take us to            the SU of 2040?        5.  What is your understanding, within a university           context, of systemic sustainability?       6.  The higher education landscape is changing for various           reasons. What do you envisage the landscape to look           like in 20 years?       7.   Where do you envisage SU being positioned /           functioning within this landscape?      -   There was a 60% participation rate, which included         executive management, deans, vice-deans, and chief         and senior directors. FEBRUARY•   Institutional Planning Forum: Discussion of results for   January 2017 survey					o			Five	task	groups	created	to	provide	input	regarding	specific			    aspects of the strategy:       -   Values      -   The future shape and size of SU      -   Research Themes      -   Bursaries and Loans      -   Strategic Performance IndicatorsJULY•   Executive Planning Forum (Executive Management and Deans) o  Discussion on the nature, role and positioning of SU based     on the thematic analysis of the data obtained from the     February 2017 questionnaire and input received by the     February 2017 IPF.       o  Discussion of the proposed vision, within the context of     the feedback from the task groups.SEPTEMBER•   Faculty Management and Professional Administrative Support    Services environments provide input via their line management    on the proposed values, as well as vision and mission elements.•   The SU Council provides input on the proposed values, as well    as vision and mission elements.OCTOBER•   Students provide input on the proposed values through an   online questionnaire•   After extensive consultation, the Task Group for Research  	Themes	submits	its	final	report	and	recommendations.NOVEMBER•   Staff provides input on the proposed values through an   online questionnaire.NOVEMBER• The Rectorate approves an action plan and  timeline.
73.  APPROACH TO THE STRATEGIC PROCESSThe overarching strategic process consists of three phases. During phase 1, strategy development (July 2016 to May	2018),	the	new	vision	was	compiled,	along	with	the	strategic	framework	that	defines	the	core	strategic	themes as well as the institutional goals for each strategic theme. This phase also entailed a revision of the University’s values. Phase 2 followed the SU Council's approval of Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 on  18 June 2018. During phase 2, strategy uptake (July 2018 to June 2019), the core strategic themes and goals will	be	operationalised	by	defining	context-specific	objectives	–	in	essence,	a	period	of	sense-making.	At	this	time,	we	will	also	finalise	operational	definitions	of	key	concepts,	e.g.	‘world-class’,	‘transformative	experience’,	etc., and adopt relevant theoretical frameworks which will create a basis for shared understanding at SU. This implies interaction with faculties and professional administrative support environments to align the strategic framework and environmental plans.Phase 3, strategy alignment (July 2018 to June 2020), overlaps with phase 2. The intent with phase 3 is to close the gap between the planning and formulation of the strategy and the execution of the strategy by aligning and/or streamlining structures, processes and policies. It also implies closing the feedback loop through continuous monitoring and evaluation based on the key performance indicators (KPIs) (which, at SU,	are	referred	to	as	‘strategic	management	indicators	[SMIs]’).	This	entails	a	new	approach	of	integrated	planning and execution to ensure an agile, adaptable and responsive organisation. Figure 2 contains a visual representation of the phases and their respective outcomes. Figure 2: The Stellenbosch University strategic approach: the phases and respective outcomes
Our	core	strategic	themes	define	the	broad	areas	that	form	the	basis	of	the	strategic	framework	 (2019–2024), with institutional goals, objectives and key performance indicators (or SMIs) linked to each theme.	The	relationship	between	the	components	of	the	strategic	framework	is	demonstrated	in	figure	3.	Figure 3: Relationship between components of the strategic framework July 2016–May 2018July 2018–June 2019July 2018–June 2020Phase 1: Strategy DevelopmentPhase 2: Strategy UptakePhase 3: Strategy AlignmentVision and Strategic Framework
Vision 2040 andStrategic Framework2019–2024AlignmentEnvironment Plans andInstitutional PlanOperationalisationProcesses, Structureand Policies
 CoreStrategic ThemesGoalsObjectivesSMI's& KPI's
84.  CONGRUENCY AND ALIGNMENT OF STRATEGIESNo vision or strategy is developed in isolation. Instead, it builds on history and connects the past to the future. Table 1 provides a summary of the congruency and alignment of our core strategic themes  for 2019–2024 and Vision 2040 with the strategies for 2018–2023 and Vision 2030.Table 1: Congruency and alignment of strategies  Core strategic themes (2019–2024)Vision 2040 mission elementsElements of Vision 2030Strategies in Institutional Plan 2018–2023Vision 2040 aspirationsA transformative student experienceNetworked and collaborative  teaching and learning Research for impactPurposeful  partnerships and inclusive networks Employer of choiceA thriving SUInfluence	and	change the world around us, while being responsive and embracing change ourselvesCollaborative learning and teachingInterdisciplinary researchConnected to the global worldValue-drivenInnovative institutionIncrease access to new knowledge marketsIncrease diversity profile	(students)Maintain student success ratePositioning as the leading research institution in Africa
Committed, visionary leadershipIncrease diversity profile	(staff)Broadening access Maintaining momentum on excellenceMaintaining momentum on excellenceExpand internationalisationAdvance systemic transformationEnhance systemic  sustainabilityEnhance social impactAdvance systemic transformationExecute Campus Renewal ProjectAn impeccable reputationTransformed and integrated academic communityAn impeccable reputationAn impeccable reputationAn impeccable reputationAll-encompassing impactTransformed and integrated academic communitySystemically sustainable institutionAll-encompassingimpactSystemically sustainable institution
9CONTEXT

105.  CONTEXTUnderstanding the ecosystem in which we operate, and therefore also the context of our university, is important in shaping our vision and strategy. The context is also important to ensure that the opportunities we	have	identified	are	feasible.A recent publication of the Council on Higher Education (CHE, 2016) describes the higher education challenges	in	South	Africa	from	a	local	and	global	perspective.	The	document	(CHE,	2016)	identifies	three	international trends, namely:  • massification	and	globalisation;• knowledge; and • information and communications technology (ICT). A publication by Ernst & Young in 2012, in turn, noted that “the higher education sector is undergoing a fundamental transformation in terms of its role in society, mode of operation, and economic structure and value”,	and	identified	five	key	trends	based	on	the	Australian	university	model.	These	five	trends	are:• democratisation of knowledge and access;• contestability of markets and funding;• digital technologies;• global mobility; and• integration with industry.In the South African context, modernisation, social justice and the need for the fundamental transformation of the higher education system (including institutions themselves) as well as the global context and internationalisation	have	been	identified	as	themes	and	issues	(CHE,	2016).In addition, higher education challenges in South Africa include institutional instability (especially with the student unrest in 2015 and 2016) affecting the academic programme at many institutions, the slow pace of transformation,	racism,	access	to	higher	education,	the	need	for	a	decolonised	curriculum,	public	financial	constraints and social cohesion in higher education.De	Villiers	(2017)	cites	the	following	eleven	trends	that	will	influence	higher	education	in	the	near	future.	5.1   Complexity and contingencyIn a changeable, contestable and, therefore, negotiable world, university managements have to employ flexible	and	responsive	planning	frameworks	(Lange,	2010).	Our	complex	era	requires	agility,	adaptability	and responsiveness. Universities should be involved in “pattern detection” and “scenario building” (Kinghorn, 2011). The characteristics of an organisation should be attuned to the knowledge economy of the 21st century, including complexity awareness, creativity, agility and continuous learning (Kinghorn, 2011). To accommodate the complexities, we will need responsible leadership in higher education – locally, regionally and globally (Klopper, 2018). Responsible leadership in the 21st	century	entails	five	important	aspects,	namely			(i) being able to make informed ethical judgments about existing norms and rules, (ii) displaying moral courage and aspiring to positive change, (iii) engaging in long-term thinking and perspective taking, (iv) communicating   effectively with stakeholders, and (v) participating in collective problem-solving (Vogtlin, 2017).5.2   Knowledge economy and collaborative knowledge productionKnowledge has become “the key strategic resource necessary for prosperity” (Duderstadt, 2000). Universities have a crucial role to play in the knowledge economy. Specialised, disciplinary knowledge has limited capacity to explain and solve complex problems. Complex times call for collaboration across different sets of boundaries: between and across disciplines, across institutional and national borders, and between universities and other sites of knowledge generation. Collaboration around knowledge projects and the co-production of
11knowledge is viable and sensible. Bokor (2012) has also noted that “the massive increase in the availability of ‘knowledge’	online	and	the	mass	expansion	of	access	to	university	markets	mean	a	fundamental	change	in	the role of universities as originators and keepers of knowledge”.5.3   Collaborative learning The focus should be on how students learn instead of on what they learn (Tapscott & Williams, 2010). The current, dominant model of pedagogy (lecturer-centred lectures) has become obsolete. New technology enables us to embrace collaborative learning models. It facilitates a change in the relationship between students and lecturers in the learning process.Collaborative learning provides the basis for the university to be a learning organisation – an organisation characterised by a shared vision, team learning, systems thinking, mental models and personal mastery (Senge, 2006; 2014)5.4   InnovationWe need methods of investigation that move away from reporting what has been seen, to creating what has never been seen (Kinghorn, 2011). Creativity and innovation can create unusual products and processes to solve the complex problems of our time. The habit and ability of pattern detection and scenario-building is important to inculcate. 5.5   Pressure on public funds for higher educationOngoing	fiscal	restraints	applied	by	national	governments	as	well	as	shrinking	corporate	and	donor	contributions have become a trend in 21st-century higher education (Altbach, 1999). It has serious negative implications for universities, students, academics and academic programmes. This could result in student fee hikes, long-term decisions to cut programmes and academic posts, and the narrowing of institutional offerings. Higher education is increasingly privatised, although this does nothing to address the current pressure	to	broaden	access	to	higher	education.	We	need	an	‘entrepreneurial	university’	to	find	creative	and	novel funding solutions. In this regard, Bokor (2012) has proposed that universities should build relationships with industry to support the funding and application of research that would emphasise the role of universities as drivers of innovation and growth. 5.6   MassificationUniversities played an important part in providing the human resources for industrial expansion after World War II, and continues to provide human and other knowledge resources in the present era. However, South Africa	still	has	an	elite	higher	education	system	with	a	participation	rate	of	less	than	20%.	The	‘massification’	trend has affected many aspects of higher education – from institutional structures and the size and shape of the institution, to the curriculum and pedagogy, modes of delivery, research, demands on academics, and relationships with external communities (CHE, 2016).5.7   DiversityWorldwide, 21st-century universities increasingly have to cater for greater diversity and new majorities (Lange, 2010). This includes diversity in terms of gender, class and ethnicity, as well as age and abilities. The traditional view of university students being middle and upper-class recent school leavers is being challenged. Older persons, females, members of the working class and previously disadvantaged individuals have a growing presence in student bodies globally. In recruiting students, therefore, universities have to look in places other than the traditional ones alone.5.8   Network societyFormal and informal networks are a feature of the 21st century (Lange, 2010). In a time of resource scarcity and complexity, relationships are prime. Organisations have to team up with others who share their goals and objectives so as to pool resources. Because of increasing complexity and globalisation, organisations have no choice but to collaborate within networks to address different aspects of the challenges they experience.
125.9   InternationalisationAn “international market place, not only for conventional products, but also for knowledge professionals, research and educations services” has emerged (Duderstadt, 2000). Individual institutions form part of a	worldwide	higher	education	system.	Student	and	staff	exchanges,	global	‘big	science’	collaborations,	international joint ventures, research teams and partnerships are integral parts of this worldwide higher education environment. Against this backdrop, higher education will be increasingly internationalised going forward. The corporatisation of the university will continue, external grounds of validation (e.g. league tables and rankings) will continue to wield power, and the pressure towards uniformity will persist. According to Bokor (2012), global mobility will grow for students, academics and university brands, and will create global partnerships and broader access to students and academics. Thus, it will be important to establish strategic and valued partnerships that can result in multilateral agreements and networks of common purpose (Klopper, 2018).5.10 SustainabilitySustainability	theorists	emphasise	three	aspects:	economic,	ecological	and	social.	‘Economic’	includes	financial	restraints,	the	entrepreneurial	university	and	innovative	funding	models.	‘Ecological’	pertains	to	ecological	elements,	both	in	curriculum	and	operations,	while	‘social’	refers	to	inclusion,	student	and	staff	wellness,	corporate citizenship and social cohesion.Furthermore, it is important to note that Africa will experience the sharpest population growth globally this century. By 2030, Asia will still dominate in terms of the number of people in the age bracket 15–35, with     sub-Saharan Africa in second place. Yet by 2100, most of the world’s young people will be from our continent (United Nations, 2015). Strong population growth is anticipated in Southern and Eastern Africa in the next 15 years (Du Plessis, 2017).The reputation of the South African higher education system relies on the postgraduate system (Cloete, 2017). South Africa should therefore maintain and strengthen the new-knowledge-producing subsector of higher education.5.11 Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and technologyFor many years, universities worldwide have been arguing that the digital revolution will substantially challenge the way universities function (Tapscott & Williams, 2010). It has been said that “a new generation of students requires a different model of higher education” (Tapscott & Williams, 2010). Weiss (2002) indicated that classrooms would be transformed from spaces of delivery to spaces of active inquiry, authorship and ownership. Johnson, et al. in the NMC Horizon Report (2013) lists the key trends of the use and application of technology in higher education as follows: • People expect to be able to work, learn and study whenever and wherever they want to.• Technologies are increasingly cloud-based, and notions of IT suppor t are decentralised.• The world of work is increasingly collaborative and is driving changes in the way student learning   and projects are structured.• The abundance of resources/relationships via the internet are increasingly challenging educators to   revisit their roles.• Education paradigms are shifting to include online learning, hybrid learning and collaborative models   such as blended learning. In	summary,	SU	is	committed	to	a	journey	of	becoming	a	transformed,	inclusive	institution	and	fit-for-purpose	university. The University should meet the needs of Africa’s growing population. To serve these students, learning should occur not only through the residential model, but also on digital platforms. SU’s focus will be on the competencies and skills we need to impart to students to equip them for the future. SU will produce knowledge of Africa, in Africa and for Africa, while ensuring that our work has a global reach. 
13VISION 2040

146.  VISION 2040
In response to all the challenges and opportunities, our vision guides us in our endeavour to achieve our future aims. 6.1   Vision 2040Our	vision	defines	what	we	want	to	become	by	2040.	It	is	an	aspirational	description	of	what	we	would	like to achieve in the long term. Our vision is that, by 2040: SU’s aspirations for the realisation of Vision 2040• An impeccable reputation as a proud African knowledge hub that serves the continent    through research, innovation and education• A transformed and integrated academic community that celebrates critical thinking,   promotes debate and is committed to democracy, human rights and social justice with an outward,   international and future focus• Having an all-encompassing impact1	on	the	social,	financial	and	environmental	well-being	of		 the town, region, country and continent, with a global reach• A systemically sustainable institution in economic, social and environmental terms,   as a national asset that serves the diverse needs of our communities“Vision is the art of seeing the invisible.” – Jonathan Swift
Stellenbosch University will be Africa’s leading research-intensive university,  globally recognised as excellent, inclusive and innovative,  where we advance knowledge in service of society.
* 1	A l l - e n c o m p a s s i n g	impact	implies	taking	a	holistic	view	of	social,	environmental,	fiscal	and	economic	dimensions	(the	big	picture).	It	is	about	looking beyond inputs and outputs to also consider outcomes and their impact – i.e. understanding our entire footprint.
156.2   MissionOur	mission	supports	what	we	strive	to	achieve	and	how	we	intend	to	do	it.	It	defines	us	as	a	university,	 why we exist and our reason for being. To achieve our vision, the mission is as follows: 
To achieve our mission, we:• strengthen interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research to advance, deepen, transfer   and implement knowledge;• are innovative and share our innovations with the world;• nurture close relationships with our stakeholders through engagement, collaboration and  	m u t u a l l y	beneficial	partnerships;• share our knowledge offering through networked and collaborative teaching and learning;• build an academic community of shared values; and• influence and change the world around us, while being responsive and embracing change ourselves.Stellenbosch University is a research-intensive university where we attract  outstanding students, employ talented staff and provide a world-class environment;  a place connected to the world, while enriching and transforming local,  continental and global communities.
166.3   ValuesOur	values	relate	to	the	beliefs	and	attitudes	that	guide	our	behaviour	(‘our	action	guides’).	All	of	the	 values are equally important, are interconnected and will inform SU’s ethics code. 
 6.4   AttributesOur	attributes	define	the	qualities	and	characteristics	of	the	University.	The	following	eight	attributes	 embody what we stand for.    Academic freedom to pursue knowledge that adheres to the highest standards of integrity, renewal and relevance
ATTRIBUTES
AGILE, ADAPTABLE AND RESPONSIVESYSTEMIC SUSTAINABILITY
PROFESSIONALISMALL-ENCOMPASSINGIMPACT
STRATEGIC FOCUS WITH A SHARED VISIONORGANISATIONAL CULTURE BUILT ON SHARED VALUES
COLLABORATIVE NATURE AND APPROACHENTREPRENEURIALMIND-SET
176.5   EnablersEnablers are the elements that make everything possible. They describe the capabilities, forces and resources that contribute to SU’s success. Achieving our vision and mission and implementing Strategic Framework 2019–2024 will not be possible without the enablers of: • people (staff and students);• purpose;• technology;• infrastructure;• sound	finance;• good governance; and• good communication.
18STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2019–2024 

197.  STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2019–2024 Strategic Framework 2019–2024 articulates our vision, mission and strategic choices, and provides a broad framework within which the University positions itself as a leading research-intensive university. It accentuates the critical review of our approach to research, teaching and learning, social impact as well as our processes throughout the University to attain the goals articulated in the framework. The purpose of the document is,	firstly,	to	provide	a	framework	within	which	further	planning	and	implementation	will	be	essential.	The	framework states neither detailed objectives nor mechanisms for operationalisation. Secondly, through a process of participation, we can unpack how each core strategic theme will be operationalised across the various functions and entities of the University. This will be followed by the development of the contents into detailed initiatives and programmes. Thirdly, the framework affords responsibility centres, faculties and professional administrative support environments the opportunity to contextualise the document in their	respective	environments,	generate	context-specific	objectives	and	develop	the	contents	into	detailed	initiatives	and	programmes	that	are	reflected	in	the	annual	environment	plans.	This	approach	allows	for	an	annual	review	and	revision	of	the	objectives,	while	providing	the	flexibility	to	adapt	to	changing	national	and	global trends, policy imperatives and market needs. 
CORE STRATEGIC THEMES  A TRANSFORMATIVE STUDENT EXPERIENCENETWORKED AND  COLLABORATIVE TEACHING AND LEARNINGRESEARCH FOR IMPACTPURPOSEFUL PARTNERSHIPS  AND INCLUSIVE NETWORKSEMPLOYER OF CHOICEA THRIVING STELLENBOSCH UNIVERSITY“If you change nothing, nothing will change.”– Tony Robbins
20At SU, we value our students and are committed to delivering a transformative student experience to each one of them. With this intention, we want to ensure that SU is accessible to qualifying students from all backgrounds, including to students who face barriers to participation in university education. We regard it as	a	journey	–	from	our	first	contact	with	prospective	students	until	they	graduate	and	embrace	the	role	of	alumni. A transformative student experience is predicated on the provision of opportunities for growth to all undergraduate and postgraduate students, including guidance, support and services from SU to enable their success.  Institutional goals to achieve a transformative student experience 7.1.1 Provide a unique, personalised student experience that serves as a catalyst for transformational  	c h a n g e	amidst	opportunities	for	engagement	and	development	through	a	first-class	academic			 offering, which prepares graduates to lead and excel in a diverse world. 7.1.2 Develop our students’ graduate attributes so that they can be 21st-century citizens   and achieve their full potential. 7.1.3 Strengthen strategic enrolment management to enhance access and inclusivity. 7.1.4 Enhance our student success rate through educational innovation. 7.1.5 Deliver comprehensive, premium-quality support services to our student community.  7.1.6 Enhance and expand engagement opportunities for our substantial alumni community.7.1.7 Create relevant opportunities for work-integrated learning towards a successful career   and positive societal impact.
SU is embarking on a journey of networked and collaborative teaching and learning through the creation of learning communities where students, staff and alumni can experience meaningful learning. The University promotes a learning-centred approach to teaching that focuses on learning as a partnership, where students are seen as co-creators of knowledge and learning environments. Within a learning-centred approach, teaching activities facilitate knowledge-building and actively engage students in their own learning. In addition, the University has a holistic understanding of teaching and learning, which includes both individual and	social	benefits.	SU’s	teaching	practices	are	deeply	embedded	in,	shaped	by	and	responsive	to	the	contexts in which they take place. These approaches shape the University as a learning organisation, enabling the emergence of learning communities	among	students,	staff	and	alumni	in	various	configurations.	Networked	and	collaborative	learning	creates an environment that encourages intellectual inquisitiveness, being an essential skill for sustained critical and creative thinking.7.1  CORE STRATEGIC THEME 1:A TRANSFORMATIVE STUDENT EXPERIENCE
7.2 CORE STRATEGIC THEME 2:  NETWORKED AND COLLABORATIVE  TEACHING AND LEARNING
21Institutional goals for networked and collaborative teaching and learning7.2.1 Focus on a learning-centred approach to teaching, whilst promoting a holistic understanding    of teaching and learning.7.2.2  Foster interdisciplinary and interprofessional teaching and learning by empowering students to    participate in a learning community where staff and students work together to learn, solve    problems, research and innovate. 7.2.3 Create an institution of continuous learning that is skilled at co-creating and sharing knowledge    and insights.7.2.4 Promote the professionalisation of academics in their teaching role, and the scholarship of teaching    and learning.7.2.5	Develop	a	digital	strategy	to	provide	the	basis	for	digital	fluency	and	the	meaningful	integration	   of learning technologies towards a networked University that engages and inspires students,    staff and alumni. 7.2.6 Expand on SU’s knowledge offering to serve new student markets. 7.2.7 Promote the continuous renewal of the University’s academic programmes by means of a systemic    process with clearly assigned roles and responsibilities for the various role-players.
Research	for	impact	at	SU	implies	optimising	the	scientific,	economic,	social,	scholarly	and	cultural	impact	of	our	research.	Our	focus	is	on	interdisciplinary	research	that	benefits	society	on	a	national,	continental	and	global scale. At the same time, we are committed to basic and disciplinary research excellence, as it forms the basis for applied and translational research. Institutional goals for research for impact7.3.1 Develop a research agenda derived from SU’s values, societal needs and the sustainability imperative.7.3.2	 Conduct	research	of	significance	based	on	selected,	focused	strategic	research	areas.	7.3.3 Inform the future research agenda and strategically involve our stakeholders. 7.3.4 Conduct collaborative and interdisciplinary research that addresses the grand challenges of society.7.3.5 Create an embedded culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in our research.7.3 CORE STRATEGIC THEME 3:  RESEARCH FOR IMPACT
22As	part	of	our	mission,	we	at	SU	have	declared	our	willingness	to	influence	and	change	the	world	around	us	through collaboration, as well as to be responsive and embrace change ourselves. Central to the mission is the notion that what happens in the world shapes our research, teaching and learning as well as our engagement, and that what happens at our university matters to the world. As a university, we are committed to South Africa and Africa. At the same time, we are intensely aware of our role in and relation to the international arena. In order to inspire and be inspired, SU will engage and collaborate with stakeholders, the communities we serve, industry, government and our university partners at a local, regional, continental and global level. Our	collaboration	and	engagement	approach	is	congruent	with	our	values,	with	specific	reference	to	respect,	compassion and equity.Institutional goals for purposeful partnerships and inclusive networks7.4.1 Develop a framework of principles to ensure local relevance, regional impact and a global reach to         enable transactional partnerships and promote transformative partnerships.7.4.2 Promote a deep connectedness and interaction with business, industry and government to leverage   our strengths, which will include work-integrated learning, continuing professional development,   collaborative research, consulting, licensing, spin-out companies and commercial ventures.7.4.3 Embrace the communities we serve to bring about social, cultural, environmental and economic   development and change.7.4.4 Enhance and expand engagement opportunities for, and foster our relationship with, our substantial   alumni community.7.4.5 Build effective collaborations through partnerships, alliances and networks with other universities,           institutions and organisations, where such collaboration contributes to excellence in teaching and    learning, outstanding research and social engagement and impact. 7.4.6 Foster distributed, networked and reciprocal partnerships that are nurtured by both institutional        structuring and personal relations. 7.4.7 Establish appropriate partnerships with institutions in all societal sectors, including the spheres of civil   society, public discourse, public opinion-formation and public policy-making.7.4 CORE STRATEGIC THEME 4:  PURPOSEFUL PARTNERSHIPS AND INCLUSIVE NETWORKS
23To make SU a thriving 2 organisation, we envisage a vibrant, prosperous and systemically sustainable university. SU recognises the major challenges associated with developing into a thriving university. We acknowledge that we need to be both responsive and proactive in shaping the future of the University. We are committed to systemic sustainability, which includes people, place (social), prosperity (economic) and the environment  and compels responsible corporate governance. Institutional goals for a thriving Stellenbosch University7.6.1 Cultivate an SU characterised by inclusivity, deep and intentional transformation, and diversity. 7.6.2 Create opportunities for the advancement of multilingualism in academic, administrative, professional   and social contexts, whilst recognising the intellectual wealth inherent in linguistic diversity.7.6.3 Change the size, shape and mix of our student population and of our academic programmes to    mirror the strategic direction of our vision. 7.6.4	 Create	a	financially	sustainable	organisation.		* 2 Thriving	is	defined	as	“being	successful	or	making	steady	progress;	prospering;	flourishing”.In support of SU’s vision, mission, values and aspirations, it is imperative to support the health and well-being of our people. In SU’s pursuit to be the employer of choice, we envisage an enabling environment that includes the principles of co-creation and appropriate participation, and embodies the characteristics of an inclusive campus culture.Institutional goals for employer of choice7.5.1 Develop a comprehensive people strategy for SU that embraces diversity and equity, leverages    unique talents and strengths, promotes life-long learning and celebrates achievements.7.5.2 Enhance the well-being of our people by creating and promoting an enabling, inclusive, equitable,    healthy and safe working and learning environment that encourages our diverse staff to maximise   their productivity, and where they feel valued and contribute to SU’s excellence.7.5.3 Improve human resource processes through the application of technology and digitalisation.7.5.4 Develop and execute a game-changing talent acquisition and talent management plan, which includes       	e q u i t a b l e	remuneration,	the	management	and	rewarding	of	performance,	the	identification	of			 competencies and the development of talent and leadership throughout the career cycle of each   SU employee.  7.5.5  Support the development of SU as a learning organisation that is responsive to both individual and          organisational needs.7.5 CORE STRATEGIC THEME 5:  EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
7.6 CORE STRATEGIC THEME 6:  A THRIVING STELLENBOSCH UNIVERSITY
247.6.5 Raise the standard of the University’s facilities and infrastructure to that of a world-class research-  intensive university, while embracing visual redress. 7.6.6 Bring about profound and sustainable change and regeneration in all facets and functions of SU to be   agile, adaptive and responsive. 7.6.7 Aspire to be a leading, research-intensive university ranked amongst the top world universities   by 2024.7.6.8 Create an entrepreneurial culture that advances innovation institutionally. 
25STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT INDICATORS

268.  STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT INDICATORS8.1   Principles for developing strategic management indicatorsSU	uses	the	term	‘strategic	management	indicator	(SMI)’	for	a	key	performance	indicator	(KPI)	that	measures	performance	against	the	University’s	core	strategic	themes	and	goals.	The	indicator	should	be	defined	in	such a way that it can appropriately measure progress towards achieving the set goal. The goal, in turn, should	be	defined	in	such	a	way	that	suitable	variables	for	measurement	can	be	identified.	The	existing	body	of	literature	on	this	subject	has	long	established	that	KPIs	should	be	‘SMART’,	i.e.	should	display	the	characteristics of being Specific,	Measurable, Attainable, Relevant and Time-bound. Lately, another two characteristics	have	been	added	to	this	list,	extending	the	acronym	to	‘SMARTER’.	Although	the	added	‘E’	and	‘R’	may	be	assigned	several	suggested	meanings,	Explainable and Relative	best	fit	SU’s	purpose.To suppor t the management of the University and improve the usefulness of SU’s per formance measures, the SMIs should ideally also have certain additional characteristics. These are (i) the availability of historical data	for	SMI	variables,	(ii)	the	ability	to	‘break	down’	an	SMI	for	application	in	other	organisational	units	of	the University, such as faculties and departments, or in other, related entities, such as academic programmes and	modules,	and	(iii)	the	‘manageability’	of	SMI	variables.	With	regard	to	characteristic	(i)	above,	historical	data should be available for SMIs to measure trends over time. This is especially useful when the University defines	a	new	set	of	SMIs,	as	it	allows	historical	trends	to	be	visualised,	based	on	which	desirable	future	outcomes, and thus SMI values, can be determined. Characteristic (ii) requires that an SMI that applies at the highest	strategic	and	organisational	level	should	ideally	also	be	definable	at	lower	levels,	while	those	at	lower	levels	should	be	capable	of	being	‘rolled	up’	or	‘aggregated’	to	higher	levels.	A	simple	example	is	the	number	of full-time equivalent students (FTEs) enrolled and associated with a particular programme. If the number of FTEs enrolled in the programme increases, this also increases total FTE enrolment at the University. Similarly,	the	SMI	can	be	‘rolled	down’	from	the	strategic	level	to	reflect	a	similar	measure	at	a	lower	level,	i.e. if the University wants to increase its total FTE enrolment, FTE enrolment in certain programmes will have to increase. Characteristic (iii), in turn, refers to the effect of management decisions on SMI variables. Ideally,	SMI	variables	should	be	a	direct	reflection	of	management	decisions,	rendering	the	strategic	goal	‘manageable’.	Returning	to	the	above	example	of	FTE	enrolments,	for	instance,	if	a	management	decision	is	taken to increase enrolments, the FTE variable should directly increase for a rise in enrolments and decrease for a decline in enrolments.Vision 2040 and Strategic Framework 2019–2024 includes six new core strategic themes and accompanying goals.	During	phase	2	of	the	strategic	process,	specific	objectives	will	be	developed	for	each	of	the	goals.	Once	completed,	a	representative	group	will	finalise	a	new	set	of	SMIs	and	KPIs	to	measure	progress	towards	achieving the strategies, goals and objectives.As is evident from the process highlighted above, this is work in progress. Yet, in the section below, we present some initial views concerning the measurement of SU’s proposed core strategic themes and goals. Currently, SU has 16 SMIs that have been in effect since they were approved by Council in December 2014. These	SMIs	are	included	in	the	University’s	Institutional	Plan,	along	with	appropriate	definitions	and	goals.	They also form part of SU’s Annual Performance Plan and Mid-Year Performance Report submitted to the Department of Higher Education and Training as required by the revised Regulations for Reporting by Public Higher Education Institutions in terms of sections 41 and 69 of the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997.A few high-level measures are proposed below to shed some light on the potential and eventual measurement of	each	of	the	six	newly	defined	core	strategic	themes.	Note	that	some	of	the	measures	apply	to	more	than	one core strategic theme and have therefore been repeated.
278.2   High-level measures for six core strategic themes8.2.1  A transformative student experienceThe	following	SMIs	fit	in	well	with	this	theme:• SU alumni survey (How well did SU prepare you for your professional role/the job market?)• Student participation rate in the co-curriculum• Distribution of international students enrolled full-time, part-time and on exchange visits, by country   of origin• SU student participation rate in international activities and exchanges• Number of students actively participating in SU’s BeWell mentor wellness project (and other, similar   initiatives aimed at addressing wellness in terms of the physical, emotional, intellectual, occupational,   social and spiritual dimensions)• Composition of total student body in terms of socio-economic score distribution• Composition of total student body (percentage of coloured, black African, Indian, Asian and   white students)• Undergraduate	first-year	retention	rate• Student success rate (module, undergraduate and postgraduate; HEMIS-based)• Throughput rates: ºPercentage	of	students	who	complete	their	qualifications	within	the	prescribed	time	plus	  two years ºGraduate completion rate of master’s degrees in minimum time plus one year ºGraduate completion rate of doctorates in minimum time plus one year• Number of degrees awarded, by level• FTE students, weighted with study level, per FTE-C1 staff member• Achievement of graduate attributes• Survey on students’ experience of SU’s student services8.2.2 Networked and collaborative teaching and learningNo existing SMIs link up with this core strategic theme. The following indicators may be considered as potential measures:• Elements of the co-curriculum• Number of module credits of students enrolled for Mode 2 programmes as a percentage of all   enrolled module credits• Number of enrolments for staff development courses as a percentage of the permanent and  	fi x e d - t e r m	staff	member	headcount• Number of short-course enrolments• Average	percentage	of	academic	programmes	renewed	in	past	five	years	• Ratio of accredited research publications on scholarship of teaching and learning to all SU research       publications
28• Ratio of academic modules with a networking or collaborative learning experience to all   modules taught• Ratio of academic modules that provide online material or a digitalised learning experience to all    modules taught• Number of staff participating in networking events (professional bodies, conferences, communities of        practice) at a national/international level8.2.3 Research for impactThe following existing SMIs are a good match for this core strategic theme:• Percentage of permanent C1 staff with a doctorate• Weighted research outputs per FTE-C1 staff member• Number of actionable disclosures of inventions per year• Third-stream income as a percentage of SU’s total income• Percentage of staff remuneration not afforded from the main budget• Percentage of funded proposals with principal investigators from multiple   departments/schools/faculties• Number of collaborative or interdisciplinary research publications• Number of publications produced in collaboration with strategic or preferred international   partner universities• Percentage of master’s and doctoral degrees awarded that entailed industry involvement• Percentage of research contracts that entailed industry involvement• Number of research chairs• Number of postdoctoral fellowships• Number of citations of papers produced in collaboration with strategic or preferred international        partner universities • Median of H-index for professors and associate professors• Impact of research on societal challenges in the domains of politics, industry, the natural   environment, civil society, public discourse and the forming of public opinion 8.2.4 Purposeful partnerships and inclusive networksThe	following	SMIs	fit	in	well	with	this	core	strategic	theme:• Points for partnerships in Africa per FTE-C1 staff member (expressed as a percentage) and points   for other regions of choice• Percentage of staff remuneration not afforded from the main budget• Appropriate indicators or a combination of indicators for measuring social impact, such as the   number of training opportunities offered per year and their participation rates, as well as   participation in University-supported social impact activities, including Woordfees and SU Choir   performances, to name only two • Number of non-research contracts (specify type of contracts)• Percentage of international students enrolled at SU• Percentage of joint degrees awarded• Percentage of master’s and doctoral degrees awarded that entailed industry involvement
29• Percentage of research contracts that entailed industry involvement• Number of students participating in Study Abroad (all categories)• Percentage/number of partnerships in the domains of government, industry and civil society• Number/percentage of C1 and C2 staff participating in (professional) staff exchanges/benchmarking       	v i s i t s / p r o f e s s i o n a l	bodies/communities	of	practice	within	predetermined	parameters	(e.g.	only	specific		 preferred institutions/within existing partnerships, etc.)8.2.5 Employer of choiceThe following SMIs might work well to measure this core strategic theme:• Percentage of academic staff and PASS staff with doctorates (PhDs)• Composition	of	permanent	(including	fixed-term)	staff	(percentage	of	coloured,	black	African,	Indian,		 Asian and white members)• Composition	of	permanent	(including	fixed-term)	staff,	such	as	percentage	of	female	staff• FTE students, weighted with study level, per FTE-C1 staff member• Number of enrolments for staff development courses, i.e. leadership development, transformation  	c o m p e t e n c i e s ,	awareness	of	rape	culture,	etc.,	as	percentage	of	the	permanent	and	fixed-term			 staff member head count• Percentage	of	permanent	(including	fixed-term)	staff	hailing	from	other	countries• Number of academic staff members inducted into national or international academies• Feedback on level of comprehensive staff well-being as measured in, amongst others, regular staff   climate and culture surveys8.2.6 A thriving Stellenbosch UniversityThe	following	SMIs	fit	in	well	with	this	core	strategic	theme:• Weighted research outputs per FTE-C1 staff member• FTE students, weighted with study level, per FTE-C1 staff member• Percentage of staff remuneration not afforded from the main budget• Third-stream income as a percentage of SU’s total income• Fourth-stream income as a percentage of SU’s total income• Fifth-stream income as a percentage of SU’s total income: ºAnnual giving campaigns ºAnnual donors ºEndowment• Suitable indicators of environmental sustainability, such as water and electricity usage, and ratio of     spending on facilities maintenance• Suitable indicators of good governance practices (that contribute to the sustainability of the institution   more broadly, e.g. with regard to risk mitigation, sound decision-making, legal compliance, etc.)• Position on selected international rankings • Innovation and entrepreneurship activities: ºSpin-out companies ºCommercialisation agreements
30REFERENCES

319.  REFERENCESAltbach, P.G. (1999). The Logic of Mass Higher Education. Tertiary Education and Management, 5(2), 105-122.      doi: https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1018716427837.Cloete, N. (2017). Worldwide trends in Higher Education and how it impacts South Africa. Centre for Higher Education Trust’s presentation at SU Institutional Planning Forum.Council on Higher Education (CHE). (2016). South African Higher Education Reviewed. Two Decades of Democracy. CHE, Pretoria, South Africa.De Villiers, W. (2017). Worldwide trends in Higher Education and how it impacts on South Africa. Stellenbosch      University Rector and Vice-Chancellor’s presentation at SU Institutional Planning Forum.Duderstadt, J.J. (2000). New Roles for the 21st-Century University. Issues in Science and Technology, 16(2).Du Plessis, S. (2017). Trends with opportunities for SU. Presentation at SU Executive Planning Forum, July.Bokor, J. (2012). University of the future. A thousand year old industry on the cusp of profound change. Ernst & Young, Australia.Johnson, L., Adams Becker, S., Cummins, M., Estrada, V., Freeman, A., and Ludgate, H. (2013). NMC Horizon     Report: 2013 Higher Education Edition. Austin, Texas: The New Media ConsortiumKinghorn, J. (2011). Knowledge construction and complexity. PowerPoint presentation. Centre for Knowledge Dynamics and Decision-making.Klopper, H.C. (2018). Internationalisation at Stellenbosch University. Speech during the celebration of 25 years of international relations at SU, 13 April.Lange, L. (2010). Universities in the 21st Century. Global discourse and local reality. PowerPoint presentation. Delivered at symposium at Stellenbosch University. Senge, P.M. (2006). The Fifth Discipline: The Art & Practice of The Learning Organization. Doubleday, New York, USA.Senge, P.M. (2014). The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook: Strategies and Tools for Building a Learning Organization. Crown Business.Tapscott, D. & Williams, A. (2010). Innovating the 21st-Century University: It’s Time! EDUCAUSE Review, 45(1), 16-29. Retrieved November 11, 2017, from https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/data/assets/pdf_file/0003/355260/Innovating_the_21st_Century_University_2.pdf.United Nations. (2015). World	Population	Prospects.	The	2015	Revision.	Key	findings	and	advance	tables. Retrieved November, 11 2017 from United Nations, Population Division: http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/publications/world-population-prospects-2015-revision.html.Vogtlin, C. (2017). What is responsible leadership? Retrieved November, 11 2017 from https://managemagazine.com/article-bank/leadership/what-responsible-leadership/.Weiss, R.E. (2002). Humanizing the online classroom. New Directions for Teaching and Learning, 84 (Winter):47-51. https://doi.org/10.1002/tl.847.
