TAYLORTHRIVES
Sparking a Vibrant Future
TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from President LindsayExecutive SummaryVision and MissionPillar 1: Widening the Circle of LearnersPillar 2: Telling the Taylor StoryPillar 3: Developing and Investing in our People Pillar 4: Entrepreneurial Energy to Improve our Community Pillar 5: Ensuring Excellence and Affordability Pillar 6: Serving and Leading to Minister to a World in Need12581214161820
3Equos ipsam landis dolendandae. Ceriamendite volupic te nones millentempos et fugiasp ereptatquo de aspit peris eos as denihicid mod mossumq uidero quid eatios etus aligenimus rerchit fuga. Nemquam enducidit, nobit que vid mos dia sumque int et ut as is suntemo luptatem endisciet eos re, volupti odition sequia abo. Um iuntibus, sin nullupti cuptatio. T otatio nsequam doluptas aliam et officiatquas mil modipsaest, ut unti dolorer eperum faci omnimus sinim iur, tet quia doluptam, corunto ressimaximi, utempor eseriaspis doloressunt omnientibus alis minis ex explabo rrorum, sintibusam ex ex experup tatium et eremporia desed explitin poriberro maxim rem quid maximus aped qui ommodipsam, simus velende liquam, volum eosantur molorem quam nonsequi ommod est, quod eosaeri tatestotatur si comni nos imendis simenis simostr uptati quatem nimpedi ullam es dolumqu atistia sed erum rectotae nisseque dipsam volut ad que aut as dionsed quam re laborpo renditi beaquostrum nus magnam, nobitata dus dignis alitatem-quam aliquibus est, illaborum dolesto-tam, omniminto in erum idit eum audae ditae ento offictem voloribus ex estibustiore plicili gniatur itatur sum voluptatem faccabo. Itatem. Nam, sitasperrum invendis esequame con etum venias nus.V entemo lupiendit, nat aliquam dolorrovid quiae volupti nventi conecatur, quodit occus audae eos volo berferum fuga. Sitaessit fuga. Fugiatis doluptate et evellab orehend eritatium sum sint everat.Ectusae repedis doloria conestibus esciliquat pe ipis eaquisci offictur? Lorem quaectur arci odionec estiosae reperspere nobitatur?Estiis niam, quae venihiciene solendunt que poreprat occus, et ea exere moluptae volum eum quias accum int erum eature sintiae veris volorum quides dolorrorro consequid quiatur ibuscia vent offic te peribusdamus serum qui officiat as reictio nserchit re pos aut ut a nim id modition con nos ad quat ipsunt.Evendit magnis mos int exere et moditia tectionet quodit pelit ipsae laborer ionseque laborum fuga. Litatur ratquibusam ad quam as eum harumquo mollam voloratiatum rem commodi piendis re, il ipsunt rerovitaqui omnim hil in num ium sequibus dipis quis sumendae nusanis nobis vent.Doluptatum dolupta tempore seditio. Nonsed ut quos dem fugitaquos quam reribus, sinihil ipsandi sequod quisi il ipsanimus duntore dolupta quunt.Officius excea coreper-nam aliquamus ape 
reperferunt eventiatur arum expera nis ea quam et officab intus alia dit labo. Catatqui volorere voluptur, ut ulparum quam, commoluptae nis id ullo quam con cus dolut quae dolorrum serum reius solorro totat.Liqui beatint expliciae rem ad es que mint ant la nonsed mo excepe aliberi oremqui anisquam ad ut eos ex etur?Pa dolorpore quibusdam facerum apid que nis adi rectur autemolor modigna tibustiscias etur as quam et plitio maior aut maior arum vendi nihictento et vidit minum re pelent mil ium harum, et quam, te volore-hent.Archilici serovit, tem quia dit aut quiatecus illessit et quos quas aditatiumqui occaborum rem excea Commit to the Lord whatever you do, and he will establish your plans. -Proverbs 16:3
1
TAYLOR THRIVESChrist-Centered, Student-FocusedSince 1846, T aylor has served the church as one of the most Christ-centered, student-focused universities in the world. Leaders in education recognize T aylor as a place that prizes student learning, celebrates intentional community, and leads in the important work of faith-learning integration. This is a place where we seek to honor the Lord by giving him our best. Thanks to the Lord’s provision, T aylor now stands as the oldest non-denominational school within the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities. W e give thanks that every faculty and staff member is devoted to the intellectual and spiritual formation of students – in classrooms and residence halls, on the turf and perfor-mance stage, and around the world. At the same moment that we recognize these blessings, we also turn with resolve to face the challenges that lie ahead. Industry headwinds, significant changes in the political milieu, and a global pandemic have created an inflection point in T aylor’s history – one none of us could have foreseen a decade ago, let alone 175 years ago. But we know that adversity has never stopped the advancement of the Gospel, and we see tremendous opportunities on the horizon. Guiding the University through these turbulent seas will take skillful hands and integrity of heart as we face a never-before-seen array of perils and possibilities coming to the institution at an accelerating pace. Over the last nine months every constituent group of the University was invited into an ambitious effort that involved prayerful discernment and strategic dreaming of how the Lord might use T aylor University over the next five years. Thousands of constituents participated through survey responses, dozens of small-group discus-sions and interviews, and strategic-planning conversations that took place within nearly every department. The University also received counsel from hundreds of external advisors. In the end, input into the plan is measured by the hundreds of pages and thousands of hours devoted to the strategic plan by staff, faculty, and colleagues across campus. Based upon prayerful discernment, careful analysis, and hopeful expectation for all that God has done, is doing, and will do in and through T aylor University in the future, the plan presented below represents the fruit of those labors and, we believe, the very best thinking of the extended T aylor family. It reflects the godly ambition of an entire community devoted to the work of developing servant-leaders marked with a passion to minister Christ’s redemptive love and truth to a world in need. It will take our very best, and we are counting on the Lord to multiply our modest loaves and fishes into an abundant bounty that glorifies Him. As we embark on the journey of carrying out the work we believe the Lord has called us to, we take encourage-ment in the reminder that “Thus far, the Lord has helped us” (1 Samuel 7:12). W e know He will do it again!D. Michael Lindsay,  President and Professor of Sociology

2The Need. T aylor is a global leader in Christian higher education and is recognized as a place that prizes student learning, celebrates intentional community, and leads in the important work of faith-learning integration. T aylor’s alumni are generous, winsome, servant-leaders who bring a thoughtful Christian witness to society, serving Christ wherever they are called with integrity of heart and skillful hands. The world has perhaps never been more in need of T aylor’s graduates, but industry headwinds, significant changes in the political and religious milieu, and a global pandemic have created an inflection point in the University’s history that requires us to think comprehensively and creatively about how T aylor will thrive in the years ahead. This is the call to which the University, and thousands of faculty, staff, students, alumni, parents, and friends have responded over the past nine months.The Process. Starting in the fall of 2021, the University engaged in an expansive strategic-planning process that involved every area of campus and every University constit-uent group. A group of 14 faculty and staff leaders spearheaded a process that collected the insights of thousands of individuals including faculty, staff, students, alumni, parents, and friends of the Universi-ty. Strategic-planning conversations with nearly every department, multiple sessions with the University Assembly (a group of 50 faculty and staff leaders), multiple campuswide forums, conversations with advisory councils, dozens of opportunities for small group discussion, a robust review of institutional data and survey results, and hundreds of pages of written feedback formed the basis of the extensive research in the strategic-planning process.During the spring, four iterative drafts of the strategic plan were prepared and shared sequentially with segments of the community for comment, conversa-tion, and revision. Each revision brought additional opportunities for conversation as the University sought to make the process both comprehensive and transpar-ent. Simultaneously, the University worked to identify the expense and revenue opportunities associated with each of the specific goals and metrics associated with the plan. Lastly, the University’s human resources leadership has begun guiding a set of conversations to leverage T aylor’s significant human capital and help managers ensure their departments support the work of the strategic plan and the wider University. Over the course of the summer months, each department will develop an implementation plan, identifying how they will support the strategic plan. These implementation plans will form the basis of goals for which individuals and departments will be accountable over the course of FY2023. This process will be repeated annually throughout the five years covered by the strategic plan.Taylor Thrives: Christ-Centered, Student Focused. As we reflected on what would be required for T aylor to live out its vision over the next five years, we believe three elements of the University must thrive—our campus, our community, and our mission. Each is supported by two priority pillars that undergird our efforts:• Our campus will thrive as we widen the circle of learners we serve—from high school, to under-graduate, to graduate and professional students—and as we tell the T aylor story more effectively and in more places. T aylor’s experiential learning and compelling campus culture spark joy and enthu-siasm among our students and alumni. As our campus thrives, we will be inspired to live, as John 10 describes, life to the full!Executive Summary
3Widen Our Circle of Learners. W e believe T aylor needs to grow the circle of learners it serves – both because it is essential for institutional vitality, and also because we believe it is a missional imperative to share the transformative T aylor education with a wider segment of learners. Initiatives include launching and expanding academic programs to serve nontraditional students for T aylor—adult learners, those interested in graduate and professional programs, and pre-collegiate students. They also provide for additional investments in T aylor’s strong liberal-arts education and pathways that will allow the University to continue to grow its diversity as we seek to better emulate the diverse multitude from every language, ethnicity, and nation who praise the Lord in heaven for eternity.Tell Taylor’s Story. For too long, T aylor has hidden its light under a bushel. Every constituent group of the University believes T aylor needs to invest more resources in 1) raising the University’s profile; 2) engaging our constituents more effectively and consistently; and 3) reaching a significantly larger segment of the Christian world. W e have identified a robust slate of initiatives that will address each of these needs, allowing T aylor to share more of its strengths with those beyond our campus. This will require investments in marketing, enrollment, and communication – in terms of both people and resources. In the process, we hope to increase the confi-dence of alumni and parents; and we hope for each of these groups to better understand, articulate, and value T aylor’s unique strengths within an increasingly competitive higher education marketplace.
Taylor Thrives: Christ-Centered and Student FocusedPosition our Campus to Thrive in a Much More Challenging ContextCultivate An Environment Where Our Community Can ThriveAdvance Our Distinctives to Allow Our Mission to ThriveWiden our Circle of LearnersDevelop and Invest in Our People Ensure Excellence and AffordabilityTell Taylor’s StoryCatalyze Entrepreneurial Energy to Improve our CommunityDevelop Servant-Leaders to Minister to a World in Need• Our community will thrive as we develop and invest in our people and work to make T aylor and the surrounding community an even better place to live, work, and study. T aylor is a highly relational place where people selflessly support and encourage one another. As our community thrives, we will uplift one another and nurture the Christian ethos that makes our community so distinctive.• And our mission will thrive as we work hard to ensure the excellence of a T aylor education while making it more affordable, as well as seek to move from excellence to eminence in developing servant-leaders to minister to a world in need. W e will remain unwavering in our Christ-centered mission; as it thrives, our graduates will be even better empowered to make a difference wherever God leads them.
4Invest in and Develop Our People. Among Christian colleges and universities, the commitment of T aylor’s people to carrying out our mission is a key differentiator in what makes our insti-tution special. Faculty and staff are the essence of how we carry out our mission of developing servant-leaders. For too long, however, we have not developed and invested in our own employees. The University’s senior leaders need to do more to motivate our workforce, seek their input and keep them better informed. T aylor will invest time, resources, and energy to equip faculty and staff department chairs, as well as leaders across campus to become better managers. W e also will develop emerging leaders on campus and build career paths to keep faculty and staff colleagues engaged and excited about their futures at the University for many years. Finally, we will model for other institutions how to develop and deepen servant-leadership, not only among students but also among faculty and staff year after year.Improve Our Campus and Community with Entrepreneurial Energy. T aylor has a long history of contributing to our local community. Echoing the admonition in Jeremiah 29, we seek the peace and the prosperity of our community because if it flourishes, we also—at T aylor—flourish. Building upon our legacy and attending to newer developments that God has made possible, we aspire to harness the innovative and entrepreneurial energy of our campus to create a more robust ecosystem of care and development for our community. W e also have identified a robust set of investments in T aylor’s physical infrastructure that will modernize our campus as we seek to make T aylor an even better place to live, work, and study. Ensure Excellence and Affordability. Every constituent group talked about the rising cost of higher education and expressed concerns that T aylor remain affordable for the kinds of families we have historically served. Affordability is a key driver for enrollment growth, and T aylor supporters have generously given to endowed scholarships and current-use scholarship funds for decades. In light of the increasing competitiveness of our market, T aylor must make significant gains in growing our endowment and launching new scholarships that can be deployed immediately. W e have identified a robust slate of initia-tives that we believe will draw additional philanthropic dollars to the University while we also seek to grow nontraditional revenues and increase the value proposi-tion of a T aylor education.Develop Servant-Leaders to Minister to a World in Need. T aylor aspires to move from excellence to eminence in developing servant-leaders, equipping our students to meet the next generation of challenges and opportu-nities. W e have identified a set of initiatives that will help us advance our distinctive as we further enhance the residential, undergraduate experience, invest in athletics as a catalyst for character development, and equip our students to better spread the Gospel in a pluralistic world.Collectively, we believe these items will contribute to the thriving of T aylor University as we seek to respond to and reposition ourselves within the marketplace, to advance our distinctives and reinforce our historic strengths, and to develop new pathways for future growth and development for the University. Under God’s providential guidance and with His blessing, we approach the next five years at T aylor with excitement and energy for all that lies ahead. W e seek to commit these priorities, objectives, and goals to the Lord’s work and trust He will establish our plans and do great things in and through us as we seek to bring the light and faith of Christ to a world in need.
5In God’s providence, throughout church history, faithful individuals and institutions have been marked with special callings. Over the last nine months, the University community has worked together to identify the Lord’s calling in this season and to determine our unique strengths, in the context of a very competitive marketplace, that we can celebrate and accelerate in the years ahead. Based on that prayerful discernment and deep analysis, we have reached consensus on a vision for T aylor’s next five years. Simply stated, we pray that Taylor University would be the leading Christ-centered, student-focused university, committed to carrying the light and faith of Christ to a world in need.Christ-centered. The history of American higher education relates the story of hundreds of institutions who have diminished their Christian commitments in pursuit of academic respectability. Historian James Burtchaell has aptly referred to this as the “dying of the light.” Despite this general trend, there is a segment of American higher education that has maintained its Christian commit-ments, and an even smaller group that asks every community member to testify to their faith. T aylor is one of the leading institutions within this small group, and we increasingly stand apart from others because of our shared Christian commitments. This is important because we believe faith grows the best in the context of wider faith within higher learning (Hebrews 10:24-25). There are only a handful of ranked institutions in the United States today that foster this kind of thriving Christian community, and we are proud to be among that select group. Student-focused. For decades, T aylor has been at the vanguard of educa-tional institutions where students are the top priority. While some may assume this is the norm in higher education, it is remarkably rare. Many institutions over the last fifty years have followed one of two general paths—either emulating the model of the German research university or, conversely, pursuing enrollment growth at the expense of academic rigor. T aylor has distinguished itself as an institution that continues to care deeply about the academic and spiritual formation of students and prioritizes resources and institutional energy accordingly. From student learning to student engagement, to student development, T aylor has continued to ask, “What is best for our students?” As such, we are a bright star within the constellation of American higher education.T aylor’s commitment to either of these areas would be a distinctive. The fact that T aylor is a global leader in both makes the University unique, and it is this distinctiveness that animates our vision for the future. In essence, we will build on what differentiates T aylor from other institutions and craft a vision that allows us to live into that uniqueness even more fully over the next five years.Committed to carrying the light and faith of Christ to a world in need. W e believe it is not only what students are taught, but also how, that reinforces the ultimate telos—that is, our ultimate aim—of what we pursue as an institution that claims the name of Jesus Christ. Through athletics and the arts, through experiential and classroom learning, members of the T aylor community help one another better understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the myriad ways the Gospel speaks to the full spectrum of human endeavor (Colossians 1:15-20). W e teach our students that Christ’s death and resurrection reconcile not only the human relationship with God but with one another and with creation as well, and we take up the servant’s towel as a way of modeling a counter-cul-tural approach to leading well. In so doing, we reflect the example of Jesus, who came to serve, not be served.Vision and Mission
6Virtually everyone believes that T aylor needs to grow the circle of learners it serves – both because it is essential for institutional vitality, and because we believe it is a missional imperative to share the transformative T aylor education with a wider segment of learners. This includes increasing the diversity of our student body as well as residen-tial undergraduate student body growth, but it also involves launching and expanding academic programs to serve nontraditional students for T aylor—adult learners, those interested in graduate and profession-al programs, and pre-collegiate students. This will require significant investment, so our strategies need to represent wise stewardship of limited resources to leverage for maximum impact. This expansion of the students that T aylor serves must also align with and advance the University’s commitment to Christian higher education, not diminish it. W e think the best approach is to identify a portfolio of academic areas where strategic investments can be made. W e have chosen these areas of focus to better serve our traditional students while also creating new academic offerings for pre-collegiate, graduate, and adult learners. This expansion will largely occur through digital or remote learning initiatives, but they will also involve investments in people, on-campus facilities, and programs. A dedicated administrative unit within the academic division will be required to serve these nontraditional learners most effectively. This will necessitate a restructuring of some other parts of the academic division, which could include re-con-stituting school-like units within the academic division while also creating opportunities for collaboration across academic departments. Unlike previous efforts at the University, none of these restructuring strategies are created to eliminate positions for budget-savings reasons. Instead, we seek to position T aylor’s academic leadership and structure to be more adaptable for the rising competitiveness of our market and to develop a cadre of academic leaders who have sufficient and equivalent “range” of responsibilities and are developed as institutional leaders with greater intentionality and authority. Finally, we seek to invest in academic initia-tives that will serve the largest number of students and to diversify the University’s resource base for future growth and development. As part of this priority, we have identified a set of initiatives that we believe, over time, will help our campus more closely reflect God’s Kingdom on earth. As our Multicultural Philosophy Statement makes clear, T aylor is committed to fostering healthy relation-ships in our community regardless of differences in race, ethnicity, or national heritage. W e believe there is value in seeking diversity not just out of a desire to serve a wider segment of students but also in seeking to emulate the diverse multitude from every language, ethnicity, and nation who praise the Lord in heaven for eternity. W e believe this process not only honors God but also offers myriad opportunities to enrich the experience of everyone at T aylor. The following are the major components of this priority pillar.Invest in Taylor’s Christ-Centered, Liberal Arts Education: Make strategic investments to differentiate T aylor’s Bibli-cally Anchored, Christ-Centered, Liberal Arts Grounded, Educational Mission from key competitors.1. Launch a set of internal grants (up to $7,500 each) whereby academic departments can apply for seed funding that would allow them to gauge market interest in and potentially launch new curricular or co-curricular offerings (such as dual enrollment courses or certificate programs). [Y ears 1-5]2. Over the course of FY2023, the Core Committee will comprehensively review and reframe the Foundational Core to make it distinctive and exemplary of our vision for Christ-centered higher education. [Y ear 1]3. Develop a plan to utilize existing core courses PRIORITY PILLAR 1 Widening the Circle of Learners
1
7to offer a Scripture Engagement minor to all students, with a proposal shared with the relevant academic bodies before the conclusion of FY2023. [Y ear 1]4. Increase utilization of courses offered as a dual-en-rollment option for high school students, tripling the size of dual enrollment and achieving a 33% conversion rate of dual enrollment students by year five of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]5. Launch four opportunities (including the Bachelor of Fine Arts, and a B.A. in Public History) for T aylor’s arts and humanities programs to offer new credentials or degrees that best prepare graduates to serve in their chosen fields. [Y ears 1-5]6. Utilize senior and/or retired faculty to offer a set of online courses, available free of charge, targeted particularly toward alumni and parents, with the first classes available within year one of the strategic plan, as a way of growing T aylor’s digital footprint. [Launch in Y ear 1]Strategic Investments in Five Academic Areas: W e believe that intentional investments in five academic areas where T aylor is already succeeding will make a significant difference in helping T aylor grow market share. W e are pursuing areas where we can advance T aylor’s work with multiple student populations at the same time—from pre-collegiate students to our core undergraduates, to adult learners in undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs.Area 1: Ministry, Scripture Engagement, and Human Flourishing7. Expand the Master of Arts in Ministry program to three unique markets by 2027, establishing partnerships with five institutions in each. [Y ears 1-5]8. Launch certificate offerings through the Center for Scripture Engagement. [Y ear 3]9. Make an investment to allow continued growth in the Orphans and Vulnerable Children program, creating a growth plan and identifying an appro-priate goal by the end of year one of the strategic plan. [Y ear 1]10. T ake advantage of the Sacred Roots network of scholars and ministry practitioners to provide research, relationships and resources to congrega-tional leaders serving in communities of urban and rural poverty (exact expectations to be determined by the end of year one of the strategic plan). [Begin in Y ear 1]Area 2: Education11. Develop two dual-enrollment courses targeted specifically towards Christian schools–locally, nationally, and globally—that are (or have the potential to be) feeder schools for T aylor. [Y ear 1]12. Conduct market research to identify and then launch graduate and/or certificate programs that T aylor’s Education Department is uniquely positioned to serve. [Market research conducted in Y ear 1] 13. Identify at least two opportunities for T aylor’s Education Department to partner with local community or church partners by offering certifi-cates or micro-credentials. [Y ear 2]Area 3: Business, Entrepreneurship, Finance, and Leadership14. Launch a summer business camp for high school students. [Y ear 2]15. Conduct market research to identify and then launch graduate and/or certificate programs that T aylor is uniquely positioned to serve. [Begin in Y ear 1] 16. Endow and launch a School of Business. [Y ears 1-5]Area 4: Computing, Data Science, and Engineering17. Launch a data science academic program that can complement any academic major on campus. [Y ear 1]18. Conduct market research to identify and then launch pre-collegiate and/or professional certifi-cate offerings in this area. [Y ear 3]19. Launch a mechanical engineering program for undergraduates. [Y ear 3]Area 5: Health Professions20. During the first year of the strategic plan, identify funding sources to build on faculty passions for community health programs and experiential student learning. [Y ear 1]21. Develop and launch 2-4 new programs in health profession fields, with a first report on possibilities presented to the Board in May of 2023. [Y ears 1-5]22. Launch a summer academic camp focused on health sciences. [Y ears 2-3]23. Secure institutional partnerships with new medical facilities in the local community. [Y ears 1-2]
8Raise Taylor’s Academic Profile: Surveys of prospective students tell us that T aylor is losing a perceptual battle against key competitors related to the strength of our academic offerings. There are concrete, proven, and achievable steps we can take to help recognize the excellence of our faculty and bolster our academic reputation and, likely, help T aylor’s standing in recog-nized rankings rise.24. Review, and where appropriate, revise every academic major page to highlight the contribu-tions of our faculty and ensure timely, relevant, and compelling presentation. Continue the regular refresh cycle. [Y ears 1-5]25. Develop a set of video assets for the various outreach efforts within academic departments that feature T aylor faculty, students, and alumni. [Y ears 1-5]26. Enable departments to share stories of success-ful graduates more easily in their programming, working to better leverage positive results. [Y ears 1-5]27. Develop regular alumni and parent outreach mechanisms (e.g., digital newsletters, events) to grow resources for academic programs and raise the visibility of T aylor’s academic strengths and dynamic faculty by the end of year one of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]28. In year one of the strategic plan, launch a digital undergraduate research journal. [Y ear 1]Expand Taylor’s Academic Offerings for Key Partners in Christian Education: While a number of traditional recruiting markets are shrinking, there are several areas that are seeing signifi-cant growth, ones that also represent a strong missional fit for T aylor. W e believe we can do much more to help reach and recruit these students through strategic partnerships and offerings.29. Launch a set of online courses that are difficult to teach in a home environment and offer these to homeschool students at a competitive tuition rate. [Y ears 2-3]30. Provide continuing education programs for homeschool educators, especially during breaks and over the summer when classrooms and labs are more available. [Y ears 2-3]31. Seek to engage with and capitalize on the growing classical Christian movement. Launch a program for classical education leadership and identify recruiting pathways (perhaps in the form of a first-year fellows program) for classical students at the undergraduate level. [Y ears 2-3]
9Align Taylor’s Academic Structure for Institu-tional Thriving: T aylor’s faculty are incredibly committed to their students, but time spent in committees an academic structure that is not intuitive, a lack of support for grant-writing, and other features of our current situation take too much valuable time and energy from our faculty. W e believe there are pragmatic steps we can take that will maintain the important shared-governance work done by faculty while also freeing more of faculty time to do the things they are uniquely able to do well. 32. Create a faculty taskforce to complete a careful examination of committee assignments, regular reports, and annual department reviews, consider-ing possible reductions and other ways to reduce faculty time commitments outside the classroom with a report due to the Provost by spring of 2023. [Y ear 1]33. Develop a new structure, including the creation of a College of Graduate and Online programs (name not final), to be presented to the Board of T rustees, for T aylor’s academic division that includes Colleges, Schools, Divisions, and a refined set of Departments. [Y ear 1]34. In year one of the strategic plan conduct market research to identify appropriate additional delivery methods or degree offerings connected to the MAHE program (including hybrid and fully virtual master’s offerings and/or a doctorate). In addition to the launch and creation of a new track or degree program, seek 20% enrollment growth to the existing on-campus MAHE program. [Y ears 1-5]35. Significantly increase sponsored research, grants, and foundation dollars secured, with an expecta-tion that the University would receive $1.25MM in grant funding annually beginning in year two of the strategic plan. [Y ears 2-5]36. Develop a strategic direction and allocation of space plan along with possible renovation for the Zondervan Library as a part of the strategy to best balance needs for scholarship, studying, and collaboration among our students and faculty. [Y ears 1-5]Develop a Student Body that Reflects the Diversity of the Global Church: W e believe in increasing the diversity of T aylor’s student body because our theological convictions compel us to emulate the diverse multitude from every language, ethnicity, and nation who will praise the Lord in heaven for eternity.  37. Expand the University’s intercultural and histor-ical educational engagement with civil rights trips, and other experiential learning so that every student is given the opportunity to interact with this kind of experience before graduating. [Y ear 2]38. In year one of the strategic plan, identify opportu-nities to meet transportation and housing needs for international students. [Y ear 1]39. Create a diversity-focused admissions officer position to enhance T aylor’s recruiting efforts among underrepresented groups as well as with international students. [Y ears 1-2]40. Over the course of the strategic plan, increase the percentage of diverse and global students to 25% of the undergraduate student body on campus. [Y ears 1-5]Leverage a New Academic Space on Campus: Strengthen a marquee specialty program (film & media) on campus with dedicated space while also expanding facilities that can benefit the entire campus.41. Finance and construct a facility that showcases the film and media program and enables program growth while also providing space for entrepre-neurial ventures and a marquee meeting space. [Y ears 1-2]42. Conduct market research to identify and then launch graduate and/or certificate programs that T aylor’s Film and Media program is uniquely positioned to serve. [Y ear 2]43. Over the next five years, reach 110 high school students through the summer Film and Media camp.  [Y ears 1-5]44. Secure 250 external awards or recognitions for the Film and Media program over the course of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]
10For too long, T aylor has hidden its light under a bushel. Every constit-uent group of the University believes T aylor needs to invest more resources in 1) raising the University’s profile; 2) engaging our constituents more effectively and consistently; and 3) reaching a significantly larger segment of the Christian world. As part of this, T aylor needs to share more of its strengths with communities beyond our campus. Through expanded service-learn-ing opportunities for students, speaking engagements for T aylor faculty at churches and schools around the country, and traveling groups of T aylor students around the world (in the arts and athletics, to name just two), the University’s visibility will increase. In the process, more prospective families and supporters will come to know T aylor University and the excellent, Christ-centered education we provide. The current moment, however, requires deeper under-standing of T aylor’s brand and its unique strengths with a subsequent refresh of all the University’s brand assets—from the website to logos and wordmarks, to key messaging points. Once the refresh is completed, we need to make measurable progress in increasing brand awareness and loyalty each year for four years. In the process, more people will come to appreciate T aylor’s unique contribution to the wider academy and the global church. This will require investments in marketing, enrollment, and communication—in terms of both people and resources. It will also require an investment in the campus “welcome” experience so that visitors come to admire T aylor and its distinctive strengths. W e know that peer institutions have invested heavily in these areas over the last few years, so this is a moment for T aylor to “catch up, ” but we also hope that over these five years, T aylor will assume a leader-ship position in terms of welcoming campus visitors compared to our competitors. In the process, we hope to increase the confidence of alumni and parents in recommending the University to those within their circles of influence. Finally, we aspire to significant-ly increase our digital engagement with prospective students, alumni, parents, and supporters and for each of these groups to better understand, articulate, and value T aylor’s unique strengths within an increasing-ly competitive higher education marketplace. The following are strategic objectives we are pursuing.Showcase Taylor as the Premier Place for Developing Servant-Leaders: Servant-leadership development is part and parcel of all we do at T aylor, but few beyond our campus associate this key value with a T aylor education. Our world desperately needs the education T aylor offers, and we need to do much more to share what T aylor has to offer in this regard.45. Complete a brand study, working to identify perceived areas of strength and to completely overhaul T aylor’s marketing efforts. [Y ear 1]46. On a rolling basis over the course of the strategic plan, enhance the marketing and communica-tions plan for each academic affinity area to draw students through the recruiting funnel. [Y ears 1-5]47. Overhaul the T aylor website to match the outcome of the T aylor brand study. [Y ear 3]48. Maintain or increase the academic quality (measured by high school GPA and standardized test scores) of incoming students, even as we seek undergraduate enrollment growth. [Y ears 1-5]Amplify Taylor’s Communications Efforts to Reach a Wider Audience: Key investments in people, technology, and facilities will make a significant difference in helping T aylor thrive in a competitive marketplace.49. Incorporate student talent as micro-influencers to advance the University’s brand through social media and other organic networks where students can recommend T aylor and increase the Universi-ty’s visibility. [Y ears 1-5] PRIORITY PILLAR 2 Telling the Taylor Story
2
1150. Invest in key communications technologies (electronic newsletters, videos, etc.) and spaces (digital studios) that will elevate our outreach efforts to all constituents. [Y ears 1-2]51. Increase T aylor’s brand awareness and loyalty (exact measures to be determined following the conclusion of the brand study process). [Y ears 2-5]52. During the first year of the strategic plan, identify and later implement investments (personnel and/or equipment) needed to expand and improve the University’s ability to livestream chapel, athletic competitions, theater, musical performances, and other events offered on campus. [Y ear 1]53. Design, fund, and build a welcome center to elevate the campus visit experience, which is increasingly important in drawing prospective students to the University. [Y ears 3-4]Take Taylor to the World: W e know that bringing individuals to campus signifi-cantly increases their likelihood of enrolling. When that is not possible, the next best thing is bringing T aylor to them. Several affordable strategies can make a difference in growing awareness of T aylor around the country and the globe.54. Expand the work of church relations to partner regularly with 20 key T aylor-connected churches that have the potential to impact T aylor’s enroll-ment the most. [Y ears 1-5]55. Create a T aylor speakers bureau and pulpit supply group to promote the work of our faculty and staff, placing them in high impact speaking opportuni-ties at schools, companies, and churches. [Y ear 2]56. Launch a set of annual, regional events to take T aylor on the road, reconnecting with alumni and introducing the University to a set of students who might not otherwise  interact with T aylor. [Y ears 1-5]
12Among Christian colleges and universities, the loyalty of T aylor people is a key differentiator in what makes our univer-sity special. Faculty and staff are the essence of how we carry out our mission of developing servant-leaders. For too long, however, we have not developed and invested in our own employees. The University’s senior leaders need to do more to motivate our workforce, seek their input and keep them better informed. The time has come for a different approach, one in which we devote institutional resources to strengthening the human capital of the University. Over the next five years, T aylor aspires to become the strongest and most engaged Christian workplace within the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, as measured through surveys administered by the Best Christian W orkplace Institute. As part of this, T aylor will invest time, resources, and energy to equip faculty and staff department chairs, as well as leaders across campus to become better managers. W e also want to develop emerging leaders on campus and build career paths to keep faculty and staff colleagues engaged and excited about their futures at the University for many years. Finally, we want to model for other institutions how to develop and deepen servant-leadership, not only among students but also among faculty and staff year after year.W e want to be a place that attracts, develops, rewards, and retains a diverse and talented workforce that is deeply aligned with T aylor’s mission and foundational documents. W e want our senior leaders and managers to demonstrate workplace best practices. And we desire to set the pace among Christian colleges and universi-ties at onboarding, developing, and motivating faculty and staff. T o these ends, we will invest in more robust communication and performance-management efforts so that our faculty and staff feel informed, inspired, and involved in the University’s future. The following outlines our strategic objectives.Invest in the Next Generation of Taylor’s Leadership: W e desire that, for any senior leader vacancy, there would be multiple qualified T aylor staff or faculty who would be viable candidates. A number of workforce initiatives will help us make progress towards this goal.57.Develop an annual set of leadership developmentopportunities for faculty and staff who are alreadyserving as managers or department chairs withthe first cohort participating in year one of thestrategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]58.Launch an additional set of opportunities foremerging leaders who are not in formal roles ofresponsibility to bolster T aylor’s talent pipelinewith the first cohort participating in year one ofthe strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]59.Create on-campus programming, and securefunding for the intentional development of leadersfrom underrepresented groups with the firstcohort participating in year one of the strategicplan. [Y ears 1-5]60.Annually invest in the personal and professionaldevelopment of the President’s Cabinet, SeniorLeadership T eam, and academic leadership,through off-campus vision trips, retreats, andmeetings as well as through on-campus devel-opmental programs, helping them to serve moreeffectively in the years ahead. [Y ears 1-5]Make Taylor a Best Christian Workplace: T aylor’s workforce has always been among our greatest strengths, but we aspire to build a stronger and more supportive workforce culture. 61.By year five of the strategic plan, be the mostengaged workplace among peer institutions, asmeasured through surveys administered by theBest Christian W orkplace Institute. [Y ear 5]62.Develop a set of goals for improving campuscommunication efforts and input mechanismsfrom employees beginning in FY2023. [Y ear 1]PRIORITY PILLAR 3 ĞǀĞůŽƉŝŶŐĂŶĚ/ŶǀĞƐƚŝŶŐŝŶŽƵƌWĞŽƉůĞ
3
1363. Review a set of key policies, including T aylor’s family leave policies, and explore appropriate adjustments to improve T aylor’s ability to recruit and retain key personnel. [Y ears 1-2]64. Evaluate and then overhaul T aylor’s new employee onboarding process and the protocols for departing employees (such as exit interviews). [Y ear 1]Develop a Workforce That More Closely Reflects the Kingdom of God: W e believe that growing the diversity of T aylor’s workforce is essential as we seek to serve the global church. It will pay dividends by adding to our ability to care well for all within our community, and that the University’s decisions will benefit from hearing diverse voices in our deliberations. W e believe a set of strategies to increase the number of relationships with communities of color will help ensure success when we later create and implement specific protocols related to diverse representation in searches.65. In year one of the strategic plan, work to build 10 relationships with churches that serve those beyond the T aylor campus, including a particular focus on outreach to ethnically diverse churches. [Y ear 1] 66. In year one of the strategic plan set a baseline for and then work to incrementally increase the number of relationships and connections T aylor has with communities of color, looking to establish four new relationships annually. [Y ears 1-2]67. Develop protocols whereby recruiting pools will not be complete (and able to move forward in the screening and selection process) without diverse (ethnic or gender) representation. [Y ear 2]Effectively Develop and Motivate our People: T aylor has not, in recent years, participated in institu-tional or individual goalsetting among employees. W e believe that implementing a regular goalsetting and performance review process, combined with realistic goals for increasing faculty and staff compensation, will make an important difference in elevating the engagement and motivation for T aylor’s talent.68. Launch a regular practice of granting one-time bonuses to all employees when the University achieves institutional goals. [Y ear 1]69. Create a total compensation strategy that motivates and rewards staff and faculty for their contributions. [Y ear 1]70. Implement a regular goal setting and performance review process for all employees that ties to annual compensation increases for most employees. [Y ear 1]71. Raise endowment dollars for endowed faculty positions (exact measures to be presented to the Board in fall of 2022). [Y ears 1-5]
14For 175 years, T aylor has been focused on ministering to a world in need. In recent years, one avenue for this ministry has involved the University’s catalyzing entrepre-neurial interests among students and faculty in ways not seen before. Experiential learning in the sciences has included launching satellites in partnership with NASA, which has given rise to a new company that has launched over 500 satellite systems into space. Through 1846 Enterprises, the University supports new ventures in both the private and nonprofit sectors such as Inroads Analytics and Kershner Commons, LLC. Also, the annual “Shark T ank” program of the Calling and Career Office prepares teams of students to pitch their ideas to potential backers.Alongside these ventures, T aylor has a long history of contributing to our local community. W e seek the peace and the prosperity of our community because we want T aylor to thrive alongside of, not at the expense of, our local community. A recent community health initiative, spurred by philanthropy from the Lilly Endowment, has raised the attention of T aylor faculty, staff, and students to the health needs of our community. Creative partnerships with IU Health, among others, have created space for T aylor people to make a difference in the lives of our neighbors and friends through health coaching and wellness-educa-tion programs.Building upon our legacy and attending to newer developments that God has made possible, we aspire to harness the innovative and entrepreneurial energy of our campus to create a more robust ecosystem of care and development for our community. W e will accom-plish this through several related initiatives.Partner With the Local Community to Make It a More Attractive Place to Study, Live, and Work: In many ways, the success of our region and T aylor are intertwined. Investments in our local community will pay dividends in making this area an even more attractive home for our students and employees while also bringing significant benefits to the local community. 72.Form a taskforce to identify short- and long-termoptions to increase the quantity of housing stockfor T aylor employees and for others who may wishto move to the area with a report to be offered tothe Board in February of 2023. [Y ear 1]73.Launch a taskforce to identify opportunities tosupport the economic development of the area byengaging T aylor alumni, parents, and supportersto relocate their ministries, business, and organiza-tions to the area with a report to be offered to theBoard in February of 2023. [Y ear 1]74.Capitalize on growing awareness of and interest inthe work T aylor can do to invest in the health ofGrant County, identifying key areas for additionalinvestment that benefit both our community andstudents in the health professions. [Y ears 1-5]75.Complete renovations in Helena to allow T aylor toshowcase the Boren W estern Art Collection andmarket it as an additional draw to the Upland area.[Y ear 1]76.Create an attractive and recognizable main entrypoint to campus through the creation of a newcampus gateway along Reade Avenue. [Y ears 3-4]PRIORITY PILLAR 4 Improve our Campus and ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ with Entrepreneurial Energy
4
15Invest in IT Infrastructure to Maximize Time and Resources at Taylor: Elements of technology at T aylor are aging, and several departments use software systems that do not align with one another. Multiple, dated systems require significant time and resources to remain operational. A strategic investment in this area has the potential to improve security, secure cost savings in the long run, and to streamline the work of many on campus.77. Explore other Learning Management Systems and make a transition, if warranted, after the Universi-ty’s contract with BlackBoard concludes in 2024. [Y ear 3]78. Reduce duplication in systems used across campus, seeking to secure savings of both time and budget while increasing security. [Y ears 1-5]79. Comprehensively review and assess T aylor’s IT and data security, identifying needed security invest-ments as well as changes to policies and training. [Y ears 1-3]80. In year one of the strategic plan, identify a baseline for and then measurably improve the customer service experience of students, faculty, and staff in information technology support. [Y ears 1-5]81. Analyze T aylor’s enterprise data architecture, considering the interplay between major products on campus, as the University seeks to proactively prepare for the future. [Y ears 1-5]82. Make needed investments to refresh T aylor’s classroom technology and to prepare T aylor’s academic unit for expanded distance learning opportunities. [Y ears 1-2]83. Review opportunities to utilize technology to transform the customer experience at T aylor by improving processes and workflows on and off campus. [Y ears 1-5]84. Partner with campus stakeholders to identify key performance indicators and other relevant reporting needs to support informed decision making. [Y ears 1-5]Capitalize on a Unique Entrepreneurial Moment, Equipping Taylor Students to Not Only Seek Jobs but Also Create Them: There is clear entrepreneurial energy on campus, with multiple groups doing good work in this space. W e believe the whole will be significantly greater than the sum of the parts. Growing interest on campus coincides with the priorities of the State of Indiana and a significant interest area for prospective students.85. Launch a center or initiative that will formalize and bring together entrepreneurial work taking place in multiple areas of our campus. [Y ear 1]86. Create a dedicated space for entrepreneurship on campus. [Y ears 2-3]87. Develop external partnerships with entrepreneur-ial networks within the Christian community. [Y ears 1-2]88. Launch academic and/or summer programs for pre-collegiate and traditional students to hone entrepreneurial skills. [Y ear 2]Invest in Key Facilities to Create an Inspiring Environment for Study and Work: Parents, students, alumni, faculty, and staff all noted the need for T aylor to make investments in aging infrastruc-ture and facilities to provide a better experience and to remain competitive. W e believe modest, targeted invest-ments will make a significant difference.89. Make critical investments in Hodson Dining Commons infrastructure and appearance, defining the scope of what needs to be done and then beginning work in FY2023. [Y ears 1-4]90. Make needed aesthetic improvements in residence halls, starting with areas of greatest need in FY2023. [Y ears 1-5]91. Improve lighting and pathways on campus. [Y ear 1]92. In year one of the strategic plan, establish an annual satisfaction survey for services provided by the health clinic. Once a baseline is established, work to make incremental improvement over years 2-5 of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]
16
Every constituent group talked about the rising cost of higher education and expressed concerns that T aylor remain affordable for the kinds of families we have historically served. Affordability is a key driver for enrollment growth, and T aylor supporters have generously given to endowed scholarships and current-use scholarship funds for decades. In light of the increasing competitiveness of our market, T aylor must make significant gains in growing our endowment and launching new scholarships that can be deployed immediately. In addition, the physical campus of the University plays such a central role in the T aylor experience that we require an inspiring environment for learning and living. The renewal of spaces within existing campus buildings, addressing deferred maintenance issues through recently secured financing, and the construc-tion of select facilities that will support T aylor’s growth and development in the near future are key to ensuring the excellence we associate with T aylor. Finally, we seek seed funding to launch new initiatives for T aylor’s next season, with a particular focus on ventures that will become revenue-generating within 2-5 years’ time. In light of these priorities, we seek the following strategic objectives.Significantly Raise Resources for Taylor’s Future, Seeking to Make a Taylor Education More Affordable:T aylor’s education is excellent, but it is also expensive. There is no denying that the traditional higher education financial model is under great pressure, and we risk pricing out families that used to be our core constituency. Growing our endowment is one of the key tools at our disposal as we seek to futureproof our operations to stay true to our Christian mission. In addition to long-term efforts to grow resources that can help subsidize T aylor’s undergraduate education, there are financial aid adjust-ments that can help keep us within striking distance of key competitors while offsetting declining net tuition revenues by recruiting larger classes. W e also aspire to secure signif-icant additional philanthropic dollars to make all of this possible.93. Launch T aylor’s most ambitious comprehensive fundraising campaign and achieve goals that relate to growing the number of donors to the university, increasing the percentage of alumni giving, and securing three of the largest gifts in T aylor’s history (exact measures to be presented to the Board in fall of 2022). [Y ears 1-5]94. With affordability at the center, use the compre-hensive campaign to significantly grow the university’s scholarship resources but also increase alumni and donor engagement in other measures (e.g., praying for the university, recommending it to prospective students—exact measures to be presented to the Board in fall of 2022). [Y ears 1-5]95. Restructure scholarship dollars to make T aylor more affordable and allow us to compete for a greater number of students, including more diverse students. [Y ear 1]96. Raise endowment dollars for academic programs, academic equipment, facilities, and student scholarships (exact measures to be presented to the Board in fall of 2022). [Y ears 1-5]97. Raise $16MM for the T aylor Fund over the next five years. [Y ears 1-5]98. Continue to grow resources secured by our Stewardship Planning Ministry. [Y ears 1-5]PRIORITY PILLAR 5 Ensuring Excellence and Affordability
5
17Leverage Strategic Opportunities to Generate Greater Margin to Invest in our Campus and People: Every million of auxiliary revenue dollars we grow equates to the interest to operations earned annually from $20 million of endowment. Finding ways to unlock latent resources and grow revenues will be key strategies to help support the cost of a T aylor education.99. In year one of the strategic plan, establish a taskforce to identify and seek to eliminate barriers to growth in summer programming. [Y ear 1]100. In year one of the strategic plan, create and then execute a plan for T aylor University Broadcasting, Inc. to support the larger work of the University. [Y ear 1]101. In years two and three of the strategic plan, refresh our campus master plan with an eye towards incorporating new academic programs. [Y ears 2-3]Build Upon Taylor’s T eaching Excellence: T aylor’s classroom experience is one of the areas where our faculty shine brightest. W e seek to find ways to leverage existing resources, such as the Bedi Center for T eaching and Learning Excellence (BCTLE), to improve upon this strength. W e also seek to make data-informed decisions about class offerings to decrease the overall cost of delivering a T aylor education and to maximize faculty time and effort for greatest impact on our students. 102. Expand the work of the BCTLE by building upon research into T aylor’s teaching distinc-tives, creating clearer connections between the promotion/tenure process and BCTLE partici-pation, and expanding servicelearning support for faculty. [Y ears 1-5]103. Strengthen the new faculty development process by expanding mentoring opportunities, revising the orientation process, and creating additional orientation and faculty development opportunities to extend beyond the first two years. [Y ear 1]104. Expand T aylor’s honor offerings to include robust, multiyear engagement with honors students. [Y ear 2]105. W ork with faculty champions to revitalize and expand T aylor’s experiential learning opportunities (including both service learning and communi-ty-based learning) and other high-impact practices (exact measures to be determined). [Y ear 2]Demonstrate and Increase the V alue of a Taylor Education: In an increasingly competitive marketplace, T aylor must do more to highlight the value of a T aylor education and to show parents and students alike the difference their T aylor degree will make for future job prospects and lifelong contributions.106. Keep our undergraduate community vibrant by having on-campus enrollment that matches our capacity, targeting 2,000 undergraduate students within five years (representing approximately 17% increase in enrollment from today). [Y ears 1-5]107. As the University grows the circle of learners and increases class size, maintain or modestly improve upon historically high retention seen in the past few years by averaging 88% retention over the five years of the strategic plan. In year three of the strategic plan assess and implement strategies to improve sophomore to junior retention rates. [Y ears 1-5]108. W orking with the Calling and Career Office and the Provost, ensure that, by year five, T aylor can demonstrate that 100% of undergraduate students have participated in an internship, practicum, or relevant field experience for their major by gradua-tion. [Y ears 1-5]
18
T aylor is best known for its distinc-tive campus culture and excellence in developing servant-leaders. It’s one of the hallmarks of the T aylor value proposition that draws students and support-ers year after year. Every constituent we surveyed called this out as a key differentiator and institutional strength. Through measurable indicators in student learning, student engagement, and student develop-ment, we know that T aylor students are better prepared to serve and lead at the end of their four years on campus than their peers at other institutions. And yet servant-leadership, as informed by our Christian theology, has never been more needed—in the church, across the country, and around the world. For all these reasons, T aylor aspires to move from excellence to eminence in developing servant-leaders, equipping our students to meet the next generation of challenges and opportunities. W e believe strongly in the importance of discipling them in the countercultural ways that Jesus called his followers to bless and serve those around them. Through this, our graduates will invariably be given numerous leadership opportunities. While some places may boast primarily about their graduates’ achievements and accomplishments, we will prize the ways T aylor students and alumni bless and serve their communities with a Christ-centered approach. W e also aspire to be the leading Christian college for intercul-tural opportunities—by sending more of our students to study, serve, and work abroad and to bring more global and diverse students and leaders to study, work, and speak at T aylor on a regular basis.W e also endeavor to extend T aylor’s impact on the global church by launching a supporting organization that develops Christ-centered servant-leaders through conferences, symposia, peer networks, continuing education, and other intellectual resources that reach people beyond the traditional student body that form the core of T aylor’s raison d’etre. In so doing, we hope that even more people are prepared to minister Christ’s redemptive grace and truth to a world in need. The following outlines our strategic objectives.
Advance our Distinctive: Virtually every T aylor constituent prizes the University’s distinctive campus culture and the critical role it plays in leadership development and spiritual formation. As a result, it makes sense for T aylor to build upon this “island of strength” and address areas for additional investment as we seek to further differentiate ourselves from other institutions within the competitive higher education marketplace.109. Invest in software to identify student engage-ment across events, allowing Student Develop-ment to track and improve, but also highlight and promote the level of student engagement across campus. [Y ear 1]110. Expand the use of proven, cost-effective strat-egies—including open events; partnerships with other areas on campus; and expanded mental health “first aid” training for student leaders—to help address growing mental health needs among our student body. [Y ears 1-5]111. In year one of the strategic plan, utilize leader-PRIORITY PILLAR 6 Serving and Leading to Minister to a World in Need
6
ship training and campus programming to educate students on critical issues and model healthy approaches and mindsets that empower them to engage differences and challenging situations. [Y ear 1]Move from Excellence to Eminence in Develop-ing Servant-Leaders: A set of specific and affordable initiatives will help elevate the formation of servant-leadership already underway at the University, expand the University’s work in this area, and strengthen a key institutional distinctive.112. Over the course of the first year of the strategic plan, work to create and receive approval for a servant-leadership minor, certificate, or other curricular and/or co-curricular offering that will build upon key competencies gained through the core curriculum. [Y ear 1]113. Create a set of conferences to develop leadership capabilities for high school leaders, aiding K-12 Christian education while also developing brand ambassadors in key recruiting markets. [Y ears 1-5]114. Launch a Presidential Fellows program to draw talented students and to develop T aylor’s top student leaders. [Y ear 1]115. Create a supporting organization of T aylor University that has more flexibility to invest in the leadership development of ministry and business leaders. [Y ear 3Invest in Athletics as a Catalyst for Character Development, School Spirit, and Undergraduate Enrollment Growth: W e believe investments in athletic facilities and programs will make a significant difference in the recruiting success of our coaches, helping to grow our student body and make our teams more competitive. W e also believe there are targeted, affordable options for expanding athletics and the character development that occurs through teams as well as strengthening school spirit that could help T aylor recruit a wider segment of students.116. By January of 2023, develop and implement a strategy for competitive expectations for each program and for the overall competitiveness of T aylor Athletics, with appropriate funding to match these expectations. [Y ear 1]117. Continue to bolster athletics programs through strategic facility upgrades including weight room renovations, initial renovations of the football fieldhouse, new turf at T urner Stadium, and a set of other improvements to be identified and prior-itized for fundraising efforts over year one of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]118. Maintain the current 25-30% ratio of athletes on campus through intentional recruiting efforts within each of our programs even as the enroll-ment of the University grows. [Y ears 1-5]119. Host an annual professional development seminar for coaches focused on character and spiritual development for students. [Y ears 1-5]120. Elevate T aylor’s e-sports program by creating formal space on campus. In year two of the strategic plan, explore transitioning the student club group to club sport status. [Y ears 1-2]
19
20121. Conduct market research to assess the feasibility of launching a pep-band and/or marching band to help recruit an additional segment of students and increase school spirit. [Y ear 4]Equip Students to Spread the Gospel in a Pluralistic World: For 175 years, T aylor has been a place that has shown our students that Christ’s death and resurrection reconciles not only our relationship with God but with one another as well. W e seek to make this timeless mission timely by measuring and improving key metrics related to spiritual growth and by finding ways to better prepare our students for productive engagement with challenging issues in and beyond the church so that T aylor students are ready to serve and lead.122. Identify and improve on key metrics to allow T aylor to credibly claim its place as a top three school for study abroad in the CCCU (exact measures to be determined). [Y ears 4-5]123. Develop international partnerships in five key cities around the globe with at least one in Africa, one in Asia, and one in Latin America. [Y ears 1-5]124. In the first year of the strategic plan, set a baseline for engagement with discipleship groups in each residence hall and then work to incremen-tally increase the level of engagement over the remaining four years of the strategic plan. [Y ears 1-5]125. Drawing on University networks, bring six public intellectuals and/or leaders to campus each year for “President Lindsay Live” or other, similar programs to bring marquee speakers to campus that will help broaden our students’ intellectual horizons and strengthen their faith. [Y ears 1-5]

24

