1
Strategy 2030
Solving the challenges of our changing world
2 3Contents
Introduction  .......................... 4
 
Our story  ............................... 6
 
What makes us special  ........ 10
Our mission  .......................... 12
Our 2030 vision  ................... 13
Research and innovation  .....14
Student education  
and experience  .................... 16
Organisation  
development  ........................ 18
Our values  ............................ 20
How it all fits together  ........ 21
Case studies  ......................... 22
Imagined futures  ................. 30
31st
UK university for  
 Job Prospects
Voted for by students in the  
Student Crowd Survey 2022£559m
 
annual gross value 
added to the 
economy of region20th 
 UK University for  
Research
THE Education Rankings for the Research 
Excellence Framework 2021
Top 50  
globally for 
research citations
Times Higher Education 
rankings 202236th 
globally for  
sustainability impact
Times Higher Education  
Impact rankings 2023
63
Nobel Prize winners across  
our UEA Alumni7National Teaching Fellows 
across our academic staff
Fellows of the 
Royal Society 
on staff7 years
Green Flag Award 
winner for the   
quality of our  
 green spaces
91% 
of our  
research rated  
‘world-leading’ or 
‘internationally 
excellent’
UK Research Excellence  
Framework 2021
23rd  
 UK University  
in the UK Complete  
University Guide 2024Queen’s  
Anniversary  
Prizes for our  
research and teaching
3
8Fellows of 
the British 
Academy 
on staff

4 5Introduction
The University of East Anglia (UEA) is many things to many 
people: an exciting and diverse community of staff and 
students; an engine of brilliant research and innovation; an 
educator of highly talented graduates; a major contributor to 
the regional and national economy; and a significant source of 
creative and cultural impacts.
We do not rest on our laurels and we are ambitious for our future, full of interesting 
ideas about how we can contribute more to all the communities we serve, both locally 
and globally. We see challenges as opportunities, operate comfortably in areas of 
complexity and embrace uncertainty and change.
This strategy defines our priorities and focus to 2030. Extensive 
consultation over several months with students, staff, alumni and 
external stakeholders has shaped our vision and ambitions.
 
In delivering our strategy we will focus on: 
1. The aspirations and needs of prospective and current students. 
Through progressive approaches to learning, teaching and support, 
we will ensure that student experiences and outcomes are rich and 
compelling. 
2. The scale and impact of our research. By concentrating on our 
areas of international excellence and embracing interdisciplinary 
approaches, we will drive enhancement. 
3. The way we operate as an organisation. We will build an outstanding 
and sustainable business model that has excellent systems and 
processes and encourages our staff to engage fully with our 
mission. Global challenges including climate change, inequalities, sustainable development and 
access to healthcare are just some of the issues we have a responsibility to address as a 
major university contributing great value in an uncertain world.
Here in the UK, we foresee the possibility of political change and further emphasis on 
devolution and regional investment. Economic challenges, including the cost of living 
and tuition fees, international policies and visa conditions, could impact our ability to 
succeed. At the same time, there is intense competition, nationally and globally, for 
students, staff and funding. 
The disruptive progress of technological change, especially in Artificial Intelligence (AI), 
is further transforming many aspects of research, teaching and administration. We are 
already benefiting from AI in our operations and will scale this up to ensure the best 
benefits for students and staff.
We must embrace the key challenges of today and tomorrow and build an effective 
organisation capable of navigating the future. We will need to become ever more agile 
to adapt to the changing financial realities and seize the opportunities in a rapidly 
evolving national and international higher education system. We will be a leader in 
developing a new sustainable model for how universities operate. 
We have factored all of these forces into our new and imaginative thinking. We are 
looking forward with eager anticipation to how we can continue to shape our changing 
world for the better. 

6 7Our story
Founded by Royal Charter in 1963, UEA was built to embody a 
radical new vision for higher education, where interdisciplinarity 
is crucial and the highest standards in both research and 
teaching are valued. Today, as a result, we are an exceptional 
dual intensive research and teaching university with an 
outstanding global reputation. Founded for the region, by the 
region, we are proud of our role in the East of England. 
As a civic university, an employer and an educator based on Norwich Research Park, we 
are committed to delivering for the region. We support business growth and develop the 
entrepreneurs and highly-skilled workforce our economy needs. In addition to a £559m 
annual contribution to the region’s economy, our partnerships, innovation, widening 
participation and public engagement activities have a wider societal and cultural impact.  
Over the past 60 years, UEA staff and students have made enormous contributions to 
our world in the areas of research, teaching and regional advancement. These have been 
recognised in many ways including an impressive array of glittering prizes and awards. 
Among our alumni and current staff, we count three Nobel prize winners and many 
fellows of the Royal Society and British Academy. 
 
Do Different
UEA was established to focus on the new and novel. Our coat of arms bears the motto 
‘Do Different’, derived from the local dialect ‘in Norfolk we du different’.  
This captures the independent spirit and sensibilities of East Anglians, our willingness to 
challenge the status quo and our imperative to think creatively. 
We ask questions and critically evaluate the world, always seeking deeper understanding 
and improved outcomes. We are bold risk takers, never settling for second best. 
Throughout our history we have done things differently and we commit to continue this 
into our future.
7
8 9
Donald Kaberuka  
President of the African  
Development Bank
Global Development, 1975
Sir Paul Nurse  
OM CH FRS  
Nobel Prize for Medicine 2001
Biological Sciences, 1970
Baroness Rosalind Scott
Baroness Scott of  
Needham Market
European Studies, 1995
Sir Michael Houghton  
Nobel Prize  
for Medicine 2020
Biological Sciences, 1969
Sir Kazuo Ishiguro  
OBE FRSA FRSL  
Nobel Prize for  
Literature 2017
English and American  
Studies, 1979  
Joe Greenwell CBE DL  
CEO Jaguar Land Rover; 
Chairman Ford UK
English and American  
Studies, 1970
Dame Karen Jones DBE FRSA  
Founder and CEO of Café 
Rouge and Punch Taverns
English and American  
Studies, 1975
Baroness Valerie Amos  
LG CH PC
Leader of the House of Lords
Education, 1978
Gurinder Chadha OBE
Screenwriter, Director
Global Development, 1979
Nomin Chinbat
Minister of Culture of  
Mongolia  
Economics, 2003
Anne Enright FRSL
Booker Prize winning author
English and American  
Studies, 1986
Dame Sarah Gilbert DBE FRS  
Vaccinologist
Biological Sciences, 1980
Sir Ian McEwan  
CH CBE FRSA FRSL  
Booker Prize winning author
English and American  
Studies, 1970
Matt Smith  
Actor
Literature and  
Creative Writing, 2002
Dame Rose Tremain  
DBE FRSL  
Costa Book and Orange Prize 
winning author
English and American  
Studies, 1964
Mathias Cormann
OECD Secretary General, 
Economist 
Law, 1993
Greg James
DJ and Presenter
Drama, 2004
Louise Heathwaite  
CBE FRS FRSE FRSB  
Executive Chair Natural  
Environment Research  
Council
Environmental Sciences, 1979Some of our notable alumni and their achievements:
10
Our prestige 
We are proud of the major 
contributions we make 
through our prestigious 
research and teaching. 
UEA is highly respected nationally 
and internationally. A global 
university ranked among the best in 
the world, we are consistently within 
the top quartile of UK universities 
based on our research and teaching 
strengths.   
We are a globally significant centre 
of research, driving change around 
the world and bringing fresh 
thinking to the major challenges 
facing society.  
Our Teaching Excellence Framework 
Silver status (TEF2023) confirms 
UEA’s very high-quality teaching 
and we typically feature in the Top 
30 of UK league tables. We are 
proud to be an inclusive place to 
learn. Our graduates are successful 
– more than 84% are in positive 
employment destinations and many 
are leaders in their chosen field. Our community
At our heart is a closely-
knit, supportive and 
inclusive campus 
community of more than 
17,000 students and 
4,600 staff.  
 
Around 162,000 proud alumni give 
our community a global reach and 
our staff and students are part of 
some 30,000 people working and 
studying on the Norwich Research 
Park.  
People are respected and admired 
here not just because of who they 
are, or where they have come 
from, but because of what and how 
they contribute. As a University of 
Sanctuary, we are proud to welcome 
into our community people seeking 
safety and support.  
There is something extraordinary 
about the friendliness of our campus 
community and the way staff and 
students look out for and encourage 
each other. We are a welcoming 
place for everyone to learn, grow 
and realise their full potential.What makes  
us special
Our campus
UEA’s home is a 
quintessential UK 
university campus – a 
vibrant and buzzing place 
to live, work and study. 
It juxtaposes high quality academic, 
support, social and cultural facilities. 
UEA feels safe and supportive, and 
fosters a strong sense of belonging.  
 
It is home to iconic architecture set 
in hundreds of acres of beautiful 
parkland. Our thatch-clad Enterprise 
Centre is one of the UK’s most 
sustainable buildings and the 
Sportspark is among the UK’s most 
successful university and community 
sport facilities. Some of the biggest 
names in music come to our live 
music venue, the LCR. The Sainsbury 
Centre is a major museum and 
arts research facility. Also, we are 
proud to be part of the Norwich 
Research Park, one of the largest 
concentrations of research institutes 
in Europe, and work closely with 
the Norfolk and Norwich University 
Hospital.Our city
Norwich is the great 
provincial and economic 
capital of East Anglia, 
a city which inspires 
creativity, promotes 
innovation and celebrates 
diversity. 
Full of energy and ambition, it is an 
ideal location for a major university. 
Our students and graduates are 
greatly valued as part of the 
community and add high level skills 
to the local workforce. 
The UK’s first City of Refuge, over 
100 languages and dialects are 
spoken here and UEA continues 
the tradition of attracting talented 
people from around the world.  
A strong cultural heritage has seen 
Norwich maintain its historical 
character and building fabric. 
Frequently voted as one of the best 
and safest places to live in the UK, 
the city is surrounded by beautiful 
countryside, and close to the 
Norfolk Broads National Park and 
stunning Norfolk coast.
11
12 13Our mission
UEA’s Royal Charter outlines our mission:
This clear focus on excellence in both research and innovation, and student education 
and experience stands true today and for the future. We remain committed to serving 
the needs of society and providing economic and social value across the twin themes of 
education and research.Our 2030 vision
We will bring to bear the fullness of our resources and energy in 
order to deliver our vision:
We will solve challenges by harnessing the transformative power of our research and 
education to develop solutions to grand challenges. The world is in a constant state 
of flux, creating both threats and opportunities. We will understand and evidence the 
challenges and offer pragmatic solutions that will make a real difference across science, 
society and the economy – at all scales, from local to global.   
We will work together with an emphasis on interdisciplinarity. Global challenges cannot 
be addressed by individuals alone, we will be most successful when we work together. 
We are collaborative by nature, acting together across our broad community, being 
inclusive in our approach. Interdisciplinarity is reflected in our original intellectual 
and physical architecture which was explicitly designed to blur traditional academic 
boundaries. We will continue to ensure we work and think without borders. 
We will be sustainable across our economic, environmental and societal activities. We 
contribute to delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals and are a world leader 
in environmental sustainability research and teaching. We will bring this insight to our 
own activities to ensure we are truly sustainable. We also focus on both economic and 
social sustainability. It is important that we operate sustainably, and that we are an 
exemplar for others by producing excellent research and by educating outstanding 
graduates who share our vision and values. 
 Solving the challenges of our 
changing world by working 
together sustainably
For the public benefit, the advancement of 
education and research
14 15Research and innovation
The development of new ideas, methods, processes and 
models, and their translation into meaningful outcomes for 
society, has always been at the very heart of UEA. We find 
answers and innovative solutions to some of the world’s most 
complex problems – enriching our understanding of the past 
and present to build a better, more sustainable and liveable 
future for everyone. 
 
We will intensify research around our three strategic themes. We will take the 
opportunity to evaluate adding future themes.To achieve this, we will:
1. Extend our research base.  We are ambitious about improving the quality and 
quantity of our research and innovation. We will support our researchers and 
innovators to access external funding, allowing us to break new ground with  
world-leading impact. We will enable all our staff to realise their full potential, 
including implementing equality, diversity and inclusion principles. We will recruit 
and retain highly talented researchers.
2. Build our collaboration with Norwich Research Park partner organisations.  By 
working collaboratively with our Park partners, we will extend the range and quality 
of our research especially in the areas of food, nutrition and health.  
3. Increase the economic benefits and impacts of our research and innovation. Much 
of our research is of an applied, near-market nature. We plan to expand our capability 
to exploit our excellent research more fully by building impact into projects from 
the outset and developing the people and processes to draw out greater commercial 
value and other wider benefits. 
4. Enhance our international reputation. UEA is engaged in many areas of high-quality 
global research and collaborates with some of the best teams on several continents. 
We will ensure that the quality of our contribution is appropriately represented 
by key international reputational markers (e.g. league table ranks) and by doing so 
further raise our international profile. ClimateUEA  
is concerned with 
our collective 
climate story during 
this critical decade 
for our planet. We 
have led the way in 
climate research for 
50 years, breaking 
new ground in 
understanding 
the global climate 
system and its 
interaction with 
society.CreativeUEA   
was born out of our 
belief that creativity 
is central to our 
human existence. 
It builds on UEA’s 
longstanding culture 
of creativity to 
deliver new areas 
of interdisciplinary 
research, innovation, 
knowledge exchange 
and impact.HealthUEA   
is centred around 
our deep-rooted 
reputation for high 
quality research, 
innovation and 
impact in medicine, 
health and life 
sciences. It seeks 
to address crucial 
global health 
challenges and their 
social and economic 
underpinnings.

16 17Student education  
and experience
UEA is a well-established and very high-quality provider of 
higher education, operating significantly above baselines.
A UEA education is characterised by interdisciplinary opportunities and experiential 
learning approaches, leading to excellent graduate outcomes for students. Our campus 
and facilities deliver excellent support and co-curricular opportunities in a safe and 
supportive community. Students join us from diverse backgrounds, experience an 
inclusive curriculum and study environment, and leave us with the education and skills 
to progress and navigate a lifelong working and learning journey. We will continue to 
put students at the heart of what we do and enable change based on student feedback, 
exploring innovative new modes of delivery.  
We will advance the education of the next generation of outstanding graduates using 
progressive approaches to address the key issues of our changing world.  To achieve this, we will:  
5. Raise student performance further to deliver an outstanding experience and 
outcomes. We will improve the consistency of outcomes across the full range of 
indicators, subject areas and student groups, and do our very best to ensure all 
students have good opportunities to succeed.  
6. Widen access, participation and success. We are fully committed to serving the 
needs of our regional community and want to do everything we can to raise local 
aspirations and skills, to deliver economic advantage. We will enhance our widening 
participation activities to recruit more students from diverse backgrounds and 
deliver inclusive opportunities and support, enabling success for all throughout their 
learning journey.  
7. Grow student numbers. We believe we can achieve greater efficiencies and 
economies of scale by increasing the size of our student population. Competition 
for UK students is likely to remain high for at least the next few years and so we 
will develop our apprenticeships and grow international student numbers, through 
articulation agreements and transnational education activities with selected high-
quality universities.  
8. Implement a new, innovative teaching model. We believe a new, radical model is 
required to enhance quality and deliver long term financial sustainability. We will 
ensure our course portfolio is up to date and market-focused, curricula are based 
on best practices (including international perspectives), greater use of Technology-
Enhanced Learning is incorporated where appropriate, and a team-based approach is 
developed for the delivery of our courses.  
9. Invest in our staff to deliver transformational educational experiences. Our 
academic staff are the central and most critical component of our teaching. We will 
invest in and nurture UEA academics and provide a stimulating and rewarding career 
structure to drive enhancement in our teaching and learning. 

18 19Organisation development
For us to achieve success, UEA will need to be an outstanding 
organisation. We aim to build a best-in-class organisation with 
a highly motivated staff community, effective processes and 
systems, and first-rate external partnerships.
People and community. Our culture and community helps to attract, retain and 
support talented staff. We will continue to build an environment where staff feel deeply 
connected with our vision and have the skills, motivation, time and reward for delivering 
it productively. Investing in staff development will allow us to attract the best talent, 
support high-quality leadership and management and create a culture in which our staff 
are engaged in our strategic activities. Wellbeing and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 
are key.
Strategic enablement.  We need to be more business-minded, efficient with our 
resources, and improve the quality of our operational delivery. Strategic enablers 
requiring additional focus are: 
• Infrastructure.  Our digital and physical infrastructure need development to keep 
pace with our ambition. We are behind our peers and some way short of what is 
needed for success. In addition, parts of our campus were built more than 50 years 
ago and need significant revitalisation.
• Sustainability. At the heart of all that we stand for and do at UEA is a focus on 
the ‘triple bottom line’ of economic, environmental and social sustainability. From 
operating at a deficit, we will return to a position of financial sustainability. We aim to 
be an exemplar for resource usage and the impact of our activities. We will be socially 
responsible and sustainable through activities that enhance the prospects of our 
people and those in the communities we serve.
• Operating model.  Fundamental to realising our ambition is changing how we work 
to deliver success. Our operating model will be aligned with our research and 
innovation, and student education and experience core purposes. We will implement 
the right functions, processes, systems and structures. Change will be enabled with 
joined-up, agile, responsive and flexible ways of working.External engagement and partnerships. We will strengthen local, national and global 
research, innovation and education partnerships. Improving collaboration with our 
Research Park partners will support our research and innovation strategy. We will 
also increase participation from across the East of England and develop transnational 
student education. Our regional engagement will be further enhanced by our Civic 
Charter, student recruitment and knowledge exchange activities. Our reputation will be 
strengthened by developing our international relationships and profile, optimising staff 
and student exchange opportunities, enhancing our global community on campus and 
equipping our students to be global citizens.
To achieve this, we will:
10. Enhance engagement. We will expand the quantity 
and quality of partnerships at local, national and 
international level, ensuring that they always add 
value to our core purposes. 
11. Invest in the development of staff. We will build a 
comprehensive development framework providing 
opportunities for UEA staff at all levels, embedding 
the values and culture necessary for success. 
12. Develop fit-for-purpose infrastructure. We will  
invest in our digital infrastructure to support our  
core purposes. For a high-quality physical estate, 
we will prioritise and balance the continued 
refurbishment of our historic buildings with  
selective investment across our campus.  
13. Deliver sustainability. We will ensure that we are 
financially resilient, including a sufficient margin 
for investment. We will also maintain our commitment to 100% net zero campus 
emissions by 2045 and high standards of social responsibility. 
14. Establish unified professional services. We intend to create a single, unified 
professional services team that is capable and flexible in its way of working, and 
organised around key processes rather than structures. 

21 20Shaped by the UEA community, our values represent a core 
set of standards for how we behave, drive excellence in 
education and research and collaborate as an anchor institution 
in our local community.  From tackling global challenges, 
striving for student and staff success and creating an inclusive 
environment, our values are what unite us.  Our values
AMBITION  
We are ambitious for our  future success
We are forward-thinking and brave in our approach and decisions. 
We make space for innovation and creativity, seizing opportunities 
that are responsible and sustainable. We are ambitious for the 
advancement of education and research.
COLLABORATION  
We are collaborative in our approach
We work together with shared purpose. We build connections, share 
ideas and develop new networks. We champion our regional, national 
and global relationships and demonstrate that together we can 
achieve greater goals and positively influence the world around us.
EMPOWERMENT  
We empower ourselves and  each other 
We develop ourselves and others, trusting people to make decisions 
based on their expertise and knowledge. We continually improve 
systems and processes to support us in working in an agile and 
efficient way. 
RESPECT  
We respect  each other 
We treat everyone with respect and dignity. We value diversity and 
foster a community where people can express different thoughts 
and views. We are open to challenge, so we can learn and improve. 
We encourage a positive, inclusive environment where everyone 
has opportunities to fulfil their potential. How it all fits together
This strategy defines our mission and vision for 2030, the things 
we will ‘do different’, and the values we will live by.
It is clear that success will require sustained investment, strong leadership and 
capabilities in business transformation — all of which will form part of our future 
planning. We are looking forward to taking staff, students, partners and our wider 
community with us on that journey over the coming years.
 
In the next phase of our work, we will develop an implementation plan, with key 
performance indicators, and a set of interlocking strategies covering research and 
innovation, student education and experience, and key enablers including people, digital, 
campus estate, international and finances.
It is important that our implementation is agile and responsive to changing 
circumstances. We plan to revisit the strategy on an annual basis to review progress 
formally and amend our work plan as appropriate.
OUR VISION
Solving the challenges 
of our changing world 
by working together 
sustainablyStudent Education and Experience
Research and Innovation
Organisation DevelopmentAMBITION                                       COLLABORATION
EM
POWERMENT                                    RESPECT

22Case studies: How we  
‘Do Different’ at UEA
Founded by Sir Angus Wilson 
and Sir Malcolm Bradbury, we 
established the first Masters 
in Creative Writing in 1970 
and the first PhD in Creative 
and Critical Writing in 1987. 
Today, creative writing 
remains a cornerstone of 
our outstanding arts and 
humanities portfolio.  
Students join us from all over the world 
and progress to careers across the 
creative industries. The publishing success of our graduates remains unrivalled, 
including Booker Prize winners such as 
Sir Ian McEwan and Anne Enright, and 
Nobel Prize winner Sir Kazuo Ishiguro. We 
are recipients of a prestigious Queen’s 
Anniversary Prize.  
Our courses allow students to develop 
in an intellectually stimulating and 
supportive environment, with a strong 
emphasis on practice, all in England’s 
first UNESCO City of Literature. Our 
programme of literary events includes 
the renowned Noirwich Crime Writing 
Festival, UEA Live literature festival and 
our student-run annual Creative Writing 
Anthology.Excellence in creative writing
2223Our schools of Environmental 
Sciences and Global 
Development are known 
for their interdisciplinary 
approach and commitment 
to make a difference in the 
world.
Environmental Sciences is one of 
the longest-established and largest 
interdisciplinary departments of its kind 
in Europe. UEA’s research has played a 
pivotal role in developing temperature 
records and climate models, and 
informing global policy for climate change 
mitigation and adaption. Our researchers are co-recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize 
for their role in the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).  
A world-leading centre for research, 
teaching and practice, Global 
Development has produced critical 
research over many years into the links 
between natural resource management, 
poverty reduction and wider political 
economy, that has radically improved lives 
and livelihoods around the world. A unique 
interdisciplinary approach to teaching 
equips students with the theoretical 
grounding and practical skills to create 
change in the world.  
 
Both schools have received Queen’s 
Anniversary Prizes.Leading in interdisciplinarity 
23
24 25A cultural treasure
Located on campus in a 
Norman Foster building, the 
Sainsbury Centre houses one 
of the most sought after, 
yet non-conformist, art 
collections in the world.  
 
The collection aims to inspire and 
influence the next generation of thinkers 
and leaders, fusing well with UEA’s ethos 
to make universities more accessible, 
blur the boundaries between disciplines, 
and challenge the status quo. Exhibitions 
are framed around global challenges, 
empowering art to address fundamental societal questions such as ‘how do we 
adapt to a transforming world’. 
One of the most prominent university 
museums and art galleries in Britain, 
the Centre was first conceived after Sir 
Robert and Lady Sainsbury generously 
donated their art collection to the 
university in 1973. The Centre runs 
a broad range of creative activities 
engaging with our local community, 
houses our School of Art, Media and 
American Studies and collaborates with 
our staff and students across subjects.We take our regional civic 
responsibilities very seriously 
and have kept our sights on 
the people and place we call 
home. 
In our 60th year, we launched our Civic 
Charter to commemorate our beginnings 
and reaffirm our civic purpose for the 
future. A statement of values, principle 
and promises for the future, our Civic 
Charter provides the foundations of 
how we work together with our regional 
partners. The Charter outlines how 
UEA collaborates with and supports 
communities to find solutions to the very many complex challenges our region 
faces.
The Civic Charter draws on a long 
tradition of civic work. From the Law 
Clinic which provides free advice to 
the public, to the international art on 
display at the Sainsbury Centre, and the 
researchers transforming the quality of 
life in local communities, or striving for 
solutions to the climate crisis – UEA has 
always delivered impact locally, regionally 
and globally. The new Civic Charter 
invites businesses, organisations and 
individuals from all sectors to engage with 
UEA and create opportunities for new 
projects and collaborations.UEA Charter of many voices
Case studies: How we ‘Do Different’ at UEA
24
27World-leading medieval studies
UEA has a world-leading 
reputation for teaching and 
research in medieval studies, 
incorporating historical, 
artistic, literary, and landscape-
archaeological perspectives.   
We have unique and prominent 
collaborations with various institutions, 
including the British Library and British 
Museum, the Ecole des Chartes in Paris, 
the Centre des Études Supérieures de 
Civilisation Médiévale in Poitiers, the 
Monumenta Germaniae Historica in 
Munich, and the University of Heidelberg. 
Two major British Academy medieval research projects are hosted at UEA. We 
are also engaged with the entertainment 
and heritage industries providing 
consultancies and advisory roles. 
Ideally located in a region steeped 
in medieval history and a city with 
the largest concentration of urban 
medieval churches north of the Alps, our 
popular yet challenging undergraduate 
and postgraduate courses are truly 
interdisciplinary and research led. Our 
graduates are now to be found in many 
leading departments across the UK, in 
Europe and the USA.  
Medicine and health sciences 
is a major area of research 
and teaching excellence at 
UEA. At the heart of the 
Norwich Research Park, we are 
dedicated to performing world-
leading fundamental and applied 
research in medicine and health 
sciences across three themes: 
metabolic health, lifespan 
health and population health.
This research has far-reaching impacts. 
For example, one in two babies born 
to mothers with diabetes develop complications. A diabetes pregnancy 
research programme aims to support 
women with diabetes to achieve 
pregnancy glucose targets required 
for optimal mother and baby health 
outcomes. 
Research into continuous glucose 
monitoring in pregnancy has shown a 
reduction in congenital abnormalities and 
stillbirth by 30%. This research has now 
shown that an innovative hybrid closed 
loop technology for controlling blood 
sugar levels improves diabetic control 
still further and will deliver even better 
pregnancy outcomes for mothers and 
their babies.Medicine and health sciences impact
26
Case studies: How we ‘Do Different’ at UEA
28 29Tackling global challenges
UEA has led the way in climate 
research for 50 years, using 
our world-leading expertise 
to tackle the unprecedented 
environmental and social 
challenges caused by climate 
change. 
In this critical climate decade for our 
planet, our world-leading climate experts 
collaborate and innovate to provide 
the vital research, solutions and insight 
needed to understand and minimise 
humankind’s impact on Earth’s climate 
and ecosystems. We are home to the Climatic Research 
Unit, widely recognised as one of 
the world’s leading institutions 
concerned with the study of natural 
and anthropogenic climate change. As a 
founding member of the Tyndall Centre, 
our researchers from the faculties of 
Sciences and Social Sciences collaborate 
with partners to develop sustainable 
responses to climate change. 
Our research informs policy, helping 
shape a global response to climate 
change. We bring together a 
multidisciplinary team of experts to 
collaborate, innovate and discover, while 
training the next generation of climate 
thought leaders.
Quality research into competition policy and regulation
The Centre for Competition 
Policy (CCP) is the UK’s leading 
interdisciplinary centre focused 
on competition, regulation and 
consumer policy. 
CCP conducts independent policy-
relevant research, and organises 
professional development and specialist 
events. The majority of the Centre’s 
research maps onto very significant 
policy and legislative developments as 
they occur, and applies an integrated 
interdisciplinary approach to studying 
competition policy. The Centre brings together academic 
staff, researchers and PhD students from 
across disciplines, including Economics, 
Law, Business and Politics. All have a 
wide range of knowledge, expertise and 
interest in the field of competition policy 
and regulation. Applying each of the 
disciplines both individually and together 
achieves real-world policy relevance 
without compromising academic rigour. 
CCP is committed to encouraging 
and training the next generation of 
researchers through short courses and 
postgraduate programmes.
Case studies: How we ‘Do Different’ at UEA
28
30
Imagined futures: what  
success may look like
Academic staff 
member
UEA offers opportunities 
to develop my research 
and teaching passions. It is 
a stimulating and inclusive 
community and I enjoy working 
here. There is a lot of support 
available to staff, for my 
academic, professional and 
personal needs. The high quality, 
well-motivated students from 
diverse backgrounds mean that 
my in-person and online teaching 
is rewarding. I collaborate with 
outstanding researchers and 
inspirational teachers from 
across disciplines. Colleagues 
in professional services provide 
the support I need to further my 
research and excellent standards 
of teaching. Digital and campus 
estates improvements have 
given me the facilities I need to 
deliver.  I can see clearly how my 
research is being translated into 
real external benefits.Professional 
services staff 
member
I have good support and career 
development opportunities. I 
really enjoy working here, and 
value the role I play in enabling 
research and innovation, 
and student education and 
experience. I especially like our 
approach and the supportive 
community I work in. Recent 
improvements in core systems 
and processes mean I have time 
to focus on what is important 
and motivating. I feel that we 
are leading the way in providing 
modern, efficient and effective 
services and systems, and 
that these are making a real 
difference both within UEA 
and the external communities 
we serve. Looking back, the 
change in culture and overall 
commitment over a short 
period of time is impressive.Student
I came to UEA because of the 
quality of the teaching, academic 
reputation, Norwich location and 
supportive culture and community. 
Everyone was so friendly when I 
visited the university. Although 
I was nervous about leaving my 
home and family and coming to 
live and study on campus, I quickly 
made firm friends and found my 
niche at UEA. I get the support 
I require when I need it from my 
lecturers and student services, 
who always have my best interests 
at heart. The campus facilities are 
amazing, including the sports, arts 
and music scenes, and Norwich 
is a great place to live. As well as 
feeling supported throughout my 
studies I have also been helped 
to find the right graduate career 
which I am excited to be starting 
straight after graduation. But I feel 
like I don’t really want to leave.Norwich stakeholder
UEA is a vital part of the Norwich 
and Norfolk economic and cultural 
community. The contributions the 
university makes to the region’s 
economic footprint, not to 
mention the artistic and literary 
scenes, are huge. I’m proud we 
have a university whose research 
is really making a difference, and 
which has such a strong reputation 
for teaching. You don’t have to 
go far to find a UEA graduate or 
someone that knows one. Lots of 
students work while they are here 
and a large number of graduates 
choose to stay.  The university 
brings new talent into the region 
and helps people deliver on 
their potential, and that’s hugely 
beneficial. I can’t imagine our city 
without UEA. The campus always 
feels really welcoming and the 
beautiful green space is a great 
place to walk my dog.
31
32
Norwich Research Park 
Norwich 
Norfolk 
NR4 7TJ 
UK
ADMISSIONS ENQUIRIES 
+44 (0) 1603 591515 
admissions@uea.ac.uk 
uea.ac.uk/study/postgraduate 
uea.ac.uk/study/international-students
GENERAL ENQUIRIES 
+44 (0) 1603 456161 
uea.ac.ukABOUT THIS BROCHURE 
We have taken great care in compiling the 
information contained in this brochure, 
which we believe to be accurate at the time 
of going to press. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
Produced by UEA.
Photography: Andy Crouch,  Andi Sapey,  
Dave Gutridge, David Kirkham, Denisa IIie, 
George Ward, Hayley Mace, Neil Ward, Pete 
Huggins, Red Tail Media, Steve Wright, The 
Photographic Unit, WeLaunchImages: 
Getty, Simon Davis/Department for Inter -
national Development, Valerie Amos DFID 
2013, CC BY 2.0 , Montclair Film , Gurinder 
Chadha , CC BY 2.0 , Minister of Culture for 
Mongolia, Nomin Chinbat 2022 (cropped) , 
CC BY 4.0 , Louise Heathwaite , GOV.UK, 
Hpschaefer , Enright Anne koeln literaturhaus 
181108 , CC BY 3.0 , Frankie Fouganthin , Kazuo 
Ishiguro in 2017 01 , CC BY-SA 4.0 , UNIDO, 
Donald Kaberuka1 , CC BY 2.0 , Thesupermat , 
Salon du livre de Paris 2011 - Ian McEwan - 
003, CC BY-SA 3.0 , Chris McAndrew  creator 
QS:P170,Q33129411, University of Exeter, Sir 
Paul Nurse , CC BY 2.0 , Official portrait of 
Baroness Scott of Needham Market crop 2 , 
CC BY 3.0 , Gage Skidmore, Matt Smith by 
Gage Skidmore 3 , CC BY-SA 3.0,  Scenic View 
of the Buildings in London (CC0), Ben Kirby 
Produced January 2024

