VISION
2030
Updated September 2021
1
When we set out to develop Vision 2030 for the University of Cape Town (UCT), the only 
element that was clear was that we could not use the typical approach to developing 
strategies for universities. Vision 2030 could not be a document that would end up lost 
at the bottom of a website or forgotten in a drawer. We wanted Vision 2030 to respond 
to the challenge put to us by the vice-chancellor: to shape and lead change. With some trepidation we started the development of a living strategy – an idea that is constantly 
reshaped in different parts of the organisation that elicits an emotional and intellectual commitment across all sectors of our community. We thank the vice-chancellor for constantly pushing us to think differently. 
We struggled with the notion that our massive transformative purpose could not be 
the same as the vision and mission of conventional strategies. Rather, it is to be the 
aspirational dream that makes us come to work every day, and to which we give our 
boundless energy. We are pleased to note that in the consultative sessions that we have 
held, UCT’s massive transformative purpose has elicited not only support; in general, the 
UCT community has responded with enthusiasm and a sense of hope and inspiration for our future possibilities. 
From the very beginning we wanted to bring all the members and groups of the 
university together. In particular, we wanted to bridge the conceptual separation between support and academic functions and ensure that the capabilities and management 
systems needed to make the vision real were not an afterthought. With this idea of a new, integrated and collaborative UCT in mind, we created cross-functional task teams in 
which the core academic functions and the cross-cutting professional, administrative and 
support functions were fully represented in all discussions. 
As ‘university’ people, we had to overcome our biases towards what we could learn from 
the business sector. We wrestled with new fads and old conservatism. We wondered about what ‘outside’ people could offer in helping us think about what our university 
could look like and feel like in the future. We are very grateful to the members of the 
Futures Think Tank, who dared to start the dream that helped clear the way for new conversations to begin in our various cross-functional teams.
What is before you is a product that can still be improved, changed and perfected 
as it becomes real in the different sections of the university. It is the fruit of the deep 
commitment to UCT of nearly 100 people who participated directly in fashioning it.
We are proud of having been part of this journey.
Vision 2030 Planning TeamForewordFOREWORD
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  Vice-Chancellor’s
Introduction
Vision 2030 is the result of inclusive and transformative leadership at UCT. Close to 100 staff 
members from across the academic, and the professional, administrative support and service (PASS) 
departments contributed to the initial development of this document, and further contributions are 
expected from across the UCT campus community as we progress. We wanted to signal from the very beginning that Vision 2030 belongs to – and is the responsibility of – every member of the UCT 
community. At the same time, we wanted to produce a living document that will guide and inspire 
staff and students to use their creativity and imagination to bring Vision 2030 to life on the ground.

3
Vision 2030 comes from a place of discomfort. 
First, it comes from discomfort with the idea that the future is a place where we arrive, and to which we have to adapt. Instead, I have challenged all of us at UCT to shape and lead the future. The work of the Futures Think Tank, which I created when I took office in 2018, constituted a crucial step in this journey. Second, Vision 2030 comes from discomfort with any complacency about UCT’s status as the top-ranked university in Afrika. Instead, I challenged the university to take a critical view of itself by defining excellence, transformation and sustainability as interdependent, so that we can be the best for Afrika. Third, it comes from discomfort with UCT’s colonial and apartheid history, and the need to affirm our university’s Afrikan identity, reclaim Afrikan agency, and commit to the future of the continent, as a global Afrikan university. As we explain in the text that follows, we symbolise this in our spelling of ‘Afrika’.
Vision 2030 comes from a place of hope and commitment. It affirms our capacity to unleash our creative energy and our intellectual capacity to change the world into a better place for all. Commitment is what will transform this vision into reality.
Vision 2030 comes from a place of decisiveness 
and trust. It is not a blueprint for people to obey, but a road map for rethinking, reimagining, re-energising and repurposing our work. We will have to make difficult but necessary choices: to stop some of the things we are doing and initiate new things. I trust in the capacity of the broader UCT community to do this.
Vision 2030 has been a year in the making. 
Planning teams, cross-functional teams and working groups applied themselves to the task of giving expression to our massive transformative purpose – “Unleash human potential to create a fair and just society” – in the core academic functions, the cross-cutting responsibilities of transformation and social responsiveness, and the systems that support and sustain UCT’s work. It is pleasing to realise that many of the topics that became the focus of global discussion with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic were already being discussed in the context of Vision 2030. This suggests we are on the right path.We have consulted widely about Vision 2030. Under COVID-19 conditions, the executive presented Vision 2030 and interacted with approximately 3 500 staff members. In the end, through six virtual sessions, we reached many more people than we would have through the original approach. We had focused engagements with labour and with students and presented Vision 2030 for discussion in Senate and Council, where it was finally approved. 
The predominant feeling in all these 
engagements was one of enthusiasm, interest and commitment. UCT staff asked pointed, important questions about the implementation of Vision 2030, the integration of the vision’s goals and how we will resource the work required to achieve them, and the space for freedom. I am very grateful for these questions, as they forced us to think harder and more clearly about our vision.
The impact of COVID-19 on the global economy 
and on South Afrika has been serious. We will have to begin implementing Vision 2030 taking full cognisance of the financial constraints within which we will have to operate, but also of the need to prioritise key projects that will serve as our vision’s scaffolding. I have no doubt that the consultative and integrated manner in which we have worked to develop Vision 2030 will serve us well in the process of implementation.
I would like to thank the members of the 
executive for their excellent teamwork and collegiality in the development of Vision 2030. Thank you also to the Futures Think Tank, and to all UCT staff who took part in the consultation process by adding their questions, thoughts and ideas to this document. 
I look forward to working with the whole UCT 
community and our external stakeholders in unleashing human potential to create a fair and just society.
#unleash
Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng
Vice-ChancellorVICE-CHANCELLOR’S INTRODUCTION
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  The road we 
have travelled
In July 2018 UCT’s newly appointed vice-chancellor, Professor 
Mamokgethi Phakeng, introduced her vision for the university and adopted a future orientation to drive the thinking behind the development of a new strategic plan. Professor Phakeng presented the three pillars that, for her, represented the foundation of the academic project at UCT – excellence, transformation and sustainability – and challenged the university to imagine what a successful and thriving UCT would look like in 2030.
The approach in developing UCT’s Strategic Planning Framework 
2016–2020 was greatly influenced by the student protests of 2015 and 2016 and took its cue from the areas where the least progress had been made in relation to the objectives of the previous strategic plan. Vision 2030 presented an opportunity to be more forward looking, and to take a different approach to strategic planning. Having considered a number of alternatives, UCT adopted a hybrid approach, based largely on Roger Martin’s book 
Playing to Win: How strategy 
really works.  It was led by Professor Kosheek Sewchurran of UCT’s 
Graduate School of Business and informed by the work already done by the Futures Think Tank, led by the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering & the Built Environment, Professor Alison Lewis, and facilitated by engineer and futurist, Abbas Jamie. 1

5
Martin’s approach to strategy is popular in 
business, and we translated it to suit UCT as an organisation. From this perspective, a strategy is an integrated set of choices that uniquely positions an organisation in its industry so it can create sustainable advantage and superior value relative to the competition. We were especially interested in working with the notion of an integrated set of choices, and of creating sustainable advantage. What is unique about what UCT can offer that will sustain the value of the university into the future?
The fundamental approach to the development 
of the strategy is based on the cascading down of strategic choices, from the institutional level to the implementation units. In practical terms, this implied thinking strategically: as UCT in relation to the core functions (teaching and learning, and research); in relation to the six faculties and their departments; and in relation to the different departments that provide professional and support services for the university. In doing this, transformation and social engagement were regarded as the cross-cutting elements of our ethos; they must be present in all strategic choices at all levels in order to be effective.The responsibility for driving the development 
of Vision 2030 was allocated by the vice-chancellor to Deputy Vice-Chancellor Associate Professor Lis Lange and Chief Operating Officer Dr Reno Morar. The approach taken is based on two principles: strategic integration, and buy-in from UCT. In order to make this effective, the following structures have been set up:
•Vision 2030 Planning Team
•Cross-Functional Task Team (Vision 2030Planning Team and representatives from thedeans and executive directors)
•Extended Task Team (Cross-FunctionalTask Team and strategic invitees, includingacademics, students and key portfolioholders).
Two Cross-Functional Working Groups (Teaching and Learning, and Research) take responsibility for translating the institutional-level strategic decisions to the core functions. As already mentioned, we followed a rigorous process of engagement with internal stakeholders, and obtained support and approval from UCT governance structures. The rest of this document presents the context of our thinking 
process, and Vision 2030 itself.  Figure 2:  
Cascades of choice – from Roger Martin’s Playing to Win, adapted for UCTTHE ROAD WE HAVE TRAVELLED

VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  
Taking stock and 
moving forward2
UCT is one of the oldest universities in South Afrika. Over the years, it has achieved 
an international reputation as a research-intensive university. It offers a wide 
range of professional and formative degrees at the undergraduate level, as well as 
postgraduate studies up to doctoral level. 
Like most English-speaking colonial universities in South Afrika, UCT has a 
contradictory history. Moulded over its existence on the western tradition of university excellence, UCT has struggled with its own identity, culture and position 
in society. While under apartheid it stood for academic freedom and its right to 
teach all students, this position was not always consistent when it came to black 
academic staff and campus segregation. UCT’s political resistance to apartheid, as imperfect as it was, constituted an important base for starting the process of 
deracialising and transforming the university. With the 1994 democratic elections 
this process was accelerated for the whole country, and UCT was no exception. 
However, the focus and nature of transformation at UCT came under critical scrutiny during 2015–2017. This forced the university to engage critically with its 
colonial history, its current identity, its culture, its relationship to society and its location in Afrika. 
7
Chinua Achebe, the prominent Nigerian novelist, 
said, “There is that great proverb – that until the lions have their own historians, the history of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.” UCT’s choice to spell ‘Afrika’ with a ‘k’ is an invitation to reclaim Afrika’s agency, and use it to validate the global character of the local in the 21st century. It is in this context that UCT chooses to be a global university in Afrika. 
In the last two decades, the world has changed 
in ways that obliged universities to rethink their purpose and location in society if they did not want to become obsolete. Climate change, growing inequality, the Fourth Industrial Revolution, population displacement, and now a global pandemic accompanied by a deep economic crisis are elements of our world that force us into a new type of consciousness. UCT must engage with these matters in their local manifestations and global implications. Into the 21st century, and in light of the critique of the last few years, we need to rethink who we are, what we do, how we do it and who benefits from our work. 
While UCT performs very well by most teaching 
and research indicators, the current model of the university is not sufficiently responsive to the needs of a new generation of diverse students and academics eager to respond to the world’s challenges. Despite its location in Afrika, UCT’s Afrikan roots are not sufficiently valued and foregrounded in its global performance as a research university, or in its curriculum. UCT has greater potential to innovate in teaching, research and social engagement than it is currently doing. The COVID-19 crisis has shown UCT’s capacity to lead with innovative responses and imagination.
In this context, UCT took a bold step when it 
decided to lead and shape the future instead of choosing to react and follow. Professor Phakeng set up a Futures Think Tank under this banner, creating the space for daring the university to realise its potential to be a trailblazer and a thought leader. The work of the Futures Think Tank helped UCT to come up with a purpose for its work that functions simultaneously as an aspiration and as the beginning of the road map to change. What we call a ‘massive transformative purpose’ is the idea that inspires the whole UCT community to be the best we can be.
As a university, UCT by definition has two 
fundamental responsibilities: to cultivate and nurture the capabilities of the younger generation for them to become leaders in different spheres of life, and to provide the conditions for academics to produce research that broadens our understanding of the social and natural worlds and the relationship between them. Taking this – the inalienable purpose of the university – asa point of departure, we decided to elevate ourmission to embrace the world, and thus chose asour purpose ‘Unleash human potential to create afair and just society’.
This purpose is an affirmation of the inherent creativity of humanity, as well as a recognition that the state of the world (social and natural) needs changing. Life is not fair, just or sustainable unless we are capable of changing important aspects of what we think and what we do. 
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, we had focused 
on inequality, climate change, waste and the circular economy, sustainable livelihoods, urbanisation, transport and mobility, disease, public health, and the role of technology and data in society as some of the core areas that need research in order to produce a new understanding. As the pandemic moves through the world, we see these areas become even more visible and urgent. We believe that the crisis we find ourselves in today makes the focus of this vision ever more relevant. 
The rest of this document invites you to our 
journey to Vision 2030.TAKING STOCK AND MOVING FORWARD
Unleash human 
potential to create a fair and just society
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  Vision 2030 
for UCT3
3.1 Who do we want to be?
Our dream is to draw from the extraordinary social and cultural diversity, creativity 
and capacity for innovation of all our staff and students to contribute to making the 21st century the Afrikan century; to look at ourselves as a university, and together create the top global university in Afrika – a university that is uncompromising in its transformative intent, deeply rooted in academic excellence, and one that strives for social, environmental and financial sustainability.
We will call on our staff and students to work together, in education and in 
research, to have real impact on our ability to tackle society’s problems and to effect positive change in the world.

9
UCT will continue to attract students with 
exceptional potential from our country, our continent and our world. 
Located in the Western Cape, UCT draws 
students from the rest of South Afrika and 135 other countries in Afrika and the rest of the world. This diversity provides an extraordinary opportunity to develop a culture of inclusivity, collaboration and dialogue in the manner in which we educate undergraduate and postgraduate students. UCT will work to ensure that all the members of its community have a voice, and a real sense of their agency and value for the university.
In line with its purpose, UCT will offer 
a transformative and socially engaged undergraduate and postgraduate education, enabling our graduates to use their knowledge, skills and sense of responsibility to shape and to be at the service of society, locally and globally.
In line with the growing importance of 
technology in society and its impact on the manner in which the new generations learn, UCT will provide both contact and digitally enabled education framed by sound pedagogy aimed at developing creativity, analytical thinking, complex problem-solving abilities, collaboration and social responsibility, across disciplines and fields of study. 
UCT already offers a wide range of short courses 
that fill the needs of graduates for continuous education. UCT will expand its capacity to offer continuous education and micro-credentials to respond to the changing needs of the world of work and the emergence of new jobs. 
Persistent world hunger, poverty and inequality, 
climate change and health crises are just some  of the complex social and environmental issues that if not addressed will exacerbate current societal and economic inequalities into the future. UCT will produce research that answers the complex problems of today and tomorrow. To do this, it will advance inter-, multi- and transdisciplinary research approaches so as to better understand the past, and define and tackle current and future problems.
Finally, in support of building a fair and just 
society, UCT will strengthen its scholarly ability to work collaboratively with local and international social actors. As a university, UCT is well placed to lead conversations with government, industry and other role players in the pursuit of new knowledge that will contribute towards our massive transformative purpose. VISION 2030 FOR UCT
3.2 What the dream looks like

VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  We will offer holistic, innovative, future-
oriented education at undergraduate and 
postgraduate level. UCT not only produces 
graduates for the labour market, but educates thinkers who are capable of shaping, adapting 
and responding to the unknown – global citizens 
who are actively responsible for the world they have inherited, and who will leave a better world 
for future generations. 
Our success in this area will depend on our 
ability to ensure that academics are trained 
higher-education teachers, the introduction of transformative pedagogies in the classroom 
environment, the ability to renew the curriculum 
and provide the necessary infrastructure for teacher and students to learn together, 
the resources and networks to provide real 
work experience as part of the degree, and administrative and student support systems that 
contribute to a seamless student experience. 
As a top research university in Afrika, UCT is 
well placed, with unique opportunities in our 
continent to find innovative ways of doing things. We will focus on research that highlights these unique opportunities and solve problems 
that matter, on the understanding that Afrika’s 
problems are the problems of the world, and that we are in a privileged position to be able to 
contribute to this enterprise. To do this, we must 
ensure that we continue to expand our local and international partnerships, improve the diversity 
and functionality of our interdisciplinary 
research teams, and develop and maintain state-of-the-art research management and support 
systems and facilities.
UCT will distinguish itself by providing thought 
leadership on social justice. The lens through 
which we look at the world should be that of the collective public intellectual, participating in and 
influencing the public debate. In order to achieve 
this, UCT will put in place communication platforms to make our teaching and learning, 
and research enterprises visible and accessible; 
policies and frameworks that enable, support and recognise civic engagement by staff and 
students; and bold policies and practices that 
support equity and cultural transformation.
3.3 Making it real
11
Finally, UCT will be an employer of choice, 
because it develops and fosters an 
organisational ethos that supports new ways of 
thinking, being and doing. The view of a fairer society will start with how UCT functions as 
an organisation. In order to support this vision, 
we need to foster an organisational culture that incentivises innovation and creativity, and 
we need to galvanise staff and students into 
action to develop and maintain a sustainable campus. This will be supported by policies, 
systems and change management that focus on 
environmental, social and financial sustainability. The whole UCT community together will strive 
for resilience, sustainability and transformation.
All of this will find its home on a campus 
that provides and uses its existing physical 
infrastructure in an innovative manner, suitable for the service of the 21st century and beyond. 
We will find space for inter-, multi- and 
transdisciplinary teams to work, and explore ways in which we can teach and learn and 
undertake research from our own environment. In this section of Vision 2030 we have presented 
UCT’s strategic choices at institutional level. 
This is our collective commitment that will be 
required to work towards a UCT that unleashes human potential to create a fair and just society. 
In the next two sections we present how the 
integrative approach works in relation to the 
traditional core functions of the university: 
teaching and learning, and research. We have also applied the approach of bringing together 
core functions and cross-cutting areas to the 
development of strategic choices in teaching and learning, and in research. Each working 
group was built around the core functions, but 
had memberships from cross-cutting areas in transformation and social engagement, and in 
the support and professional services.VISION 2030 FOR UCT

VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  
Taking as our departure UCT’s purpose to unleash human potential to create a fair and 
just society, the Teaching and Learning portfolio will work to unleash students’ potential 
through education to be resilient agents of change for themselves and in society. 
To be the top global university in Afrika in the area of teaching and learning, UCT must 
make contextually relevant choices that explain what we do, where we do it and how  we do it.  
The type of education offered by Vision 2030 is framed by the question of what kind of graduates are needed in the 21st century. To answer this question, we take into account the needs of our students, the changes in the different knowledge fields, and the broader expectations in the social functioning of university graduates in a plural society. This covers aspects such as curriculum, student engagement, modes of delivery, and very importantly, the pedagogies we employ.
In relation to the curriculum, we have a dual focus: 
•to offer innovative curricula at the cutting edge of disciplines and professions , to
enable our students to use and develop the latest technologies, knowledge and
skills to enter and contribute to different knowledge fields, to the workplace and to
civil society in the 21st century
•to offer a socially engaged curriculum that balances the local and the global, to
enable our students to have ready access to the skills and knowledge requiredto exercise their sense of social citizenship in the creation of a sustainable andregenerative world.Teaching and 
Learning
4.1 Who do we want to be?
4.2 What the dream looks like
13
Students’ experiences of their learning process 
are a key element to their success. We must offer the type of learning environment that facilitates students’ engagement with their own learning to allow them to express their agency and contribute to the curriculum.
The current generation of students and staff 
interact with digital media as part of their educational experience. And yet, in the context of our response to COVID-19, we have seen that this can also accentuate social inequality and exclusion. UCT will ensure increased network connectivity and access to mobile devices for students and staff in order to offer democratically appropriate digitally enabled education at undergraduate, postgraduate and continuous education levels. This will allow us to expose our students to the latest learning technologies in an appropriate environment without sacrificing equity or student engagement with their teachers and peers.
Our teachers need to be self-reflective on the 
effectiveness of their teaching practices, and to recognise, include and respect the contribution of students to their classes. In order to do this, we will continually renew and transform our pedagogies. 
4.3 Making it real
UCT will provide education across the disciplines and professions that focuses on developing graduate attributes targeted at the self, the community and the world. In relation to the self, we will teach our students skills to develop emotional intelligence, creativity and critical thinking, complex problem-solving, judgement and decision-making, and cognitive flexibility. In relation to the community, we will work with our students to cultivate their ability to manage people, to coordinate with others, to be service orientated and to be able to negotiate.
Finally, in relation to the world, UCT students will be provided with opportunities to develop a sense of Afrikan citizenship and global citizenship, responsibility towards the natural TEACHING AND LEARNING
environment, and strong valorisation of cultural diversity. We see our students developing a specific set of skills, qualities and perspectives that will cultivate their knowledge and intellect, as well as their responsibilities towards the community and the broader world. 
In their journey, UCT students will be exposed 
to different learning approaches, infusing environmental education, design thinking and interdisciplinary education in their studies. These methods will allow students to develop approaches to engaging with the world in a more holistic way, and to understand their own actions, abilities and behaviour in relation to others.
By providing a problem-based education 
that takes place at both the university and the workplace, our students will be taught to understand problems as challenges and as opportunities, and will encounter real-world issues within a supportive environment that stresses the importance of the educational process.
While our students have exceptional potential, 
we must commit to our role in unleashing that potential. This can only be done if we acknowledge and encourage our students to embrace the very different environments and experiences from which they come, and to use the knowledge and skills they have acquired to make the most of their opportunities. To support their success and excellence, 
we will offer well-developed student and academic support systems. We will leverage and harness our data analytics capabilities to provide relevant information to the students, to their lecturers and tutors, and to our support departments in order to sustain the development of the whole person.
All of this will take place in an organisational 
context in which physical infrastructure will be at the service of 21st-century education; planning frameworks will be designed to ensure that our educational values remain fundamental to our disciplines, programmes and curricula; and we will provide support for the development of our staff as university teachers. 
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  Research5
 
As UCT is the top research university in Afrika, 
and guided by UCT’s purpose to unleash human potential to create a fair and just society, the university’s research portfolio will focus on unleashing knowledge in and from Afrika to redefine and co-create a sustainable global future.
To be the top global research university in Afrika, 
recognised for its excellence and relevance, UCT researchers must make choices around the kind of research we want to do, where to focus, and how we do that research.
Through its focus on Afrika and its positioning 
in the world, UCT’s research will enhance quality of life in South Afrika and on the rest of the continent, with expanding impact globally. To do this, UCT will build on its globally recognised expertise in natural and social science disciplines, as well as in the humanities. 
As the top research university in Afrika, UCT 
will move with ease between research focused on the building of new fundamental knowledge for the present and the future, and its targeted application for impact. We will value the role of cutting-edge next-generation knowledge. We will focus on solving complex problems and realising new opportunities within the social and natural world, by working collaboratively and democratically and using inter-, multi- and transdisciplinary approaches. 
UCT will attract top academics from South 
Afrika, the rest of Afrika and the broader global community. The diversity of our staff, postdoctoral fellows and postgraduate students, and the integrated relationship between teaching, learning and research, will put UCT at the global cutting edge of both research and postgraduate education rooted in Afrika.
UCT will continue to build its research agenda 
on its existing strengths and areas of expertise, and its capacity to nurture new areas of strength selected to meet strategic priorities. 
We will actively focus on critical areas of 
impact in Afrika – for example, climate change, biodiversity, urbanisation, migration, diseases of the poor, natural resource governance, and efficiency. We will extend our Afrika-focused knowledge to a broader global reach. We will also bring an Afrikan perspective to concepts brought in from the global stage, eg artificial intelligence and autonomous transport, and extend these for Afrika’s impact and benefit while ensuring local relevance and thought leadership. We will focus on the recruitment of staff with a high level of expertise in key research areas.
In the construction of this new research agenda, 
UCT will intensify its global interface with other universities and research centres by leveraging our participation in international and Afrikan partnerships, often leveraging these jointly.Conscious of the priority and benefit of broadening our sources of knowledge and ways of thinking and doing, we will expand our orientation to embrace local knowledge and expertise and to position it effectively on the global knowledge stage. UCT will forge strong social partnerships with local communities, civil society, business, and local and national governments, to shape its research agenda. In so doing, this research agenda will balance the aspirations of UCT’s researchers, its funders and the society in which it functions.
UCT will build the technical and cultural 
infrastructure to develop strong collaborations 
5.1 Who do we want 
to be?
5.3 Making it real
5.2 What the dream 
looks like
15
that operate both digitally and face to face, as 
well as modes of thinking and doing research that balance the aspirations and needs of the university, 
the researchers, the funders and broader society. 
UCT’s research infrastructure will create the 
organisational and material conditions to 
support its research excellence and relevance. 
Development of inter-, multi- and transdisciplinary 
research projects and postgraduate programmes, grounded on strong disciplines, will grow through 
the provision of an environment that facilitates 
the exchange of ideas, concepts, approaches, 
knowledge and data. 
Finally, UCT will take the lead in the development 
of the next generation of researchers, scholars 
and beneficial leaders for the country and for 
the rest of the Afrikan continent. To achieve all of 
this, UCT will provide an integrated, responsive and well-governed infrastructure and enterprise RESEARCH
to support research, including ethic compliance 
infrastructure; cutting-edge online platforms 
to sustain virtual research collaborations; and 
relevant and accessible information resources, 
cross-institutional capabilities and infrastructure to support the shared management and use of data.
UCT will focus on the impact of its research and 
the extent of its social responsiveness, and will increase its ability to communicate research results 
and research impact publicly.
As a cutting-edge hub for postgraduate education 
in Afrika, UCT will offer intense training for 
supervisors, on the understanding that supervision is a form of teaching that needs to be developed. 
Further postgraduate education and  early-career researchers will be  supported through a strong researcher 
development academy.
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  Concluding 
Remarks 
To support this dream and make it sustainable, 
UCT needs to take a number of important steps. 
First, it needs to continue to engage with 
the university community to elicit active 
participation in the new vision.
Second, it will require that the institutional 
and core function cascades are further 
translated downstream, creating an integrated dialogue across faculties, academic 
departments, support and professional services, 
and general administration. 
Third, from an organisational point of view, UCT 
will need to learn to hold together ambivalence and complexity. 
Fourth, to be able to manage the complexity 
of our enterprise we will need to develop 21st-century systems in the core functions, as well as 
in the administrative backbone of the university, 
from IT to finance and human resources.
Fifth, UCT will have to make fundamental 
decisions about where to allocate resources to make this vision sustainable.
A vision such as this will require a different 
approach to the UCT budget and the 
development of new and innovative ways to 
finance different elements of the strategy. We are looking forward to working with the UCT 
Council in achieving this.
VISION 2030 – UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL FOR A FAIR AND JUST SOCIETY  
