STRATEGICROADMAP2022 - 2025
No. 1, Jalan Menara Gading, UCSI Heights (Taman Connaught), Cheras 56000 Kuala Lumpur, MalaysiaGeneral line : (+603) 9101 8880Course enquiry : (+603) 9101 8882Fax  : (+603) 9102 2614Website:ucsiuniversity.edu.myThe University • The Experience
Our Future  3Introduction  5UCSI University So Far 6How we are Performing 8Strategic Roadmap 11Achieving our Goals 12Measures of Outcome 17
3
OUR FUTUREThis bold Strategic Roadmap reflects UCSI University’s commitment to the provision of cutting-edge education and equipping our students with future ready skills & knowledge that would enable them to emblazon the global world as future leaders, making a profound impact in a rapidly changing, complex and digital world.  It is also a Blueprint for the various faculties and departments of the University on a journey forward to achieve a culture of excellence and distinction in the higher education arena both regional and international and be renowned for research that will make an imprint on both academia and society, transforming lives and impacting communities.  With a vision to be an intellectually resilient praxis university renowned for its leadership in academic pursuits and engagement with industry and community, UCSI University is built on the values of audacity, perseverance, integrity, and excellence and is a leading institution of higher learning with campuses in Kuala Lumpur, Springhill (Port Dickson), Kuching and Terengganu, Malaysia. I am conﬁdent this dynamic strategic plan will be the road map to guide UCSI University’s community of students, alumni, facultyand staff to embrace change as we boldly shape the future – a future that empowers and a future that inspiresexcellence, discovering new knowledge, advancing health and wellness, and making our world a better place. To quote Michelle Obama; “For me, becoming isn’t about arriving somewhere or achieving a certain aim. I see it instead as forward motion, a means of evolving, a way to reach continuously toward a better self. The journey doesn’t end.”I am delighted to present to you the UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 – 2025 which outlines our strategic vision of a university for the future and promotingtransformative education that empowers students from all walks of life to be successful individuals with integrity, professionalism, and a desire to contribute to society.   This is in line with national plans for Malaysia to be a regional education hub ofexcellence, as outlined in the Malaysia Education Blueprint (2015-2025) that highlights the need for the development of future-ready graduates and industry-speciﬁc education that lends to IR4.0 technology development.  The rigorous process of formulating this Strategic Roadmap has given us the opportunity to reflect on past successes and failures and to determine our future goals in the light of critical challenges, game-changing technological advances, and with the Covid-19 pandemic not abating as yet. As the end strategic goal is transformation, the strategic planning process was the enabling platform to propel the faculties, and thereby the University along a competitive and strengthening pathway to realize its full potential and fulﬁl its mission.  This Roadmap will serve as our University's guiding strategy for the next four years, deﬁned not only by strategic goals but also embodying collective aspirations and limitless potential that power our University on a trajectory of excellence. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my sincere gratitude to all those who have contributed to the various stages of the formulation of this Roadmap, with special mention to the staff, students, and Secretariat. I call on the continued support of the entire University community to make this plan a success.   Dato’ Peter NgFounder and Executive Chairman,UCSI Group
Professor Datuk Ir. Ts. Dr Siti Hamisah TapsirUCSI UniversityVice Chancellor & Group CEO
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
4Kuala Lumpur Campus
Springhill (Port Dickson) Campus
Kuching Campus
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
5INTRODUCTIONThis new Strategic Roadmap will guide us over the next four years, during which we expect to see signiﬁcant changes, both external and within. The Roadmap builds on our strength to weather any kind of volatility, ambiguity, complexity and uncertainty (VUCA).  Our future is one where our graduates will be leaders in their ﬁelds, where students have an enriching experience with world class teaching and technology, where staff and students thrive as part of a vibrant and caring community that makes a positive impact. Our future Roadmap is driven by our motto – The University, The Experience.It is for us to deliver transformative education for our students, our staff and our community and our Strategic Plan and Roadmap aims to deliver just that.
To be an intellectually resilient Praxis University renowned for its leadership in academic pursuits and engagement with industry and the community.To promote transformative education that empowers students from all walks of life to be successful individuals with integrity, professionalism and a desire to contribute to societyTo optimise relationships between industry and academia through the provision of education and unparalleled workplace exposure via praxis centresTo spearhead innovation in teaching and learning excellence through unique delivery systemsTo foster a sustainable culture of research, value innovation and practice, in partnership with industries and societyTo operate ethically at the highest standards of efﬁciency, while instilling values of diversity and inclusiveness, to sustain the vision for future generations.Audacity –  A s  a  p r i v a t e  a n d  a u t o n o m o u s l y  f u n d e d  i n s t i t u t i o n ,  o u r  s t u d e n t s  a n d  academic pursuits will continue on bold learning pathways, producing research and graduates that are not afraid to push beyond conventional boundaries. Perseverance – We have a strong culture of resilience built from our drive to persevere through challenges and change. Integrity – At all levels and throughout the student body integrity is key to professional and academic conduct. This underpins the reputation of the university that our graduates carry with them.  Excellence –  W h e t h e r  i t  b e  i n  s e r v i n g  o u r  c o m m u n i t y  o r  i n  t h e  c l a s s r o o m ,  w e  a r e  always striving towards excellence in design, delivery and experience.VisionMission
Values•••••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
UCSI University Strategy Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
6
SERVING OUR STUDENTS SINCE 1986UCSI UNIVERSITY SO FARThe University’s commitment – and success – in teaching is matched by its progress in research and the discovery of knowledge, making it a true hub of higher education. Seeking to open doors for students around the world, the University’s generous ﬁnancial aid programme ensures that prodigious students from all economic backgrounds can afford a UCSI University education. At present, more than 12,000 students study at the University. Since its establishment in 1986, students from 110 different countries have studied at UCSI University, making the campus a melting pot of culture and diversity. As one of Malaysia’s ﬁrst and best private universities, UCSI University has long impacted the national higher education landscape and the University continues to do so with its wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. We have seen campus expansions across the country, serving key areas. Our faculties have grown, and we are proud of the key appointments, including the 2021 appointment of our Vice-Chancellor and Group CEO - Professor Datuk Ir. Ts. Dr Siti Hamisah Tapsir.Whilst these developments are encouraging, the true story of the University is about its students. Many of our alumni have gone on to achieve great things in life – from business to science and the performing arts. Most remain in close contact and we are proud to play a role in shaping the  movers and shakers of tomorrow.1986 - 1990Dato’ Peter establishes the Canadian Institute of Computer Science with capital of RM2,000.The Institute is grated a status upgrade and renamed Sedaya College.A growing student population necessitates the move to a larger building in SS19.1991 - 1999The Board of Directors is formed.Tan Sri Ahmad Razali is appointed Chairman.The College relocates to Taman Segar, Cheras.2000 - 2004A second campus in Sarawak is established.The University College status is received and the UCSI brand is born.The flagship campus in Taman Connaught (South Wing) is built.2005 - 2010Tan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Dr Abdul Ahman Arshad joins us as the Chancellor.UCSI gains full university status.A third campus is launched in Kuala Terengganu.Total student population: 120
Total student population: 1,330
Total student population: 3,000
Total student population: 9,380
UCSI University Strategy Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
72011 - 2015The construction of UCSI Hotel in Kuching begins with a ground breaking ceremony.
Celebrated30th AnniversarySetara Tier 5 (Excellent) RatingThe beginning of the UCSI Star Trek Programme.
Recognition of RCE Kuching.Top 2% Universities in the World.2016 - 2019
Malaysian No.1 Private University Twice.Top 50 in the World for Performing Arts.Launched Springhill Campus.2020 – 2021
Total student population: 9,870
Total student population: 11,910
Total student population: 12,140
82021
2021201920202019QS Top 50 Under 50 
Rank 51-60: Made it to top 60 universities under 50 years old. 
QS World University Rankings 2020 
Rank 442 Top 2%QS WorldUniversity Rankingsby Subject 2019QS World University Rankings 2021 
Rank 391 Top 1.3% 20222022QS World University Rankings 2021 QS World University Rankings Asia 2021 
Rank 347Top 1.1%
Rank 77
QS World University Rankings 2019 
Rank 481 Top 2%Government Award ListMinistry of International Trade and Industry 2006SPECIALAWARDS QUALITY
for SPECIALAWARDS 20072008QUALITYMANAGEMENT
for EXPORT EXCELLENCEAWARDEDUCATIONSERVICES
for Ministry of Human Resources, Malaysia 2003HUMAN RESOURCES MINISTER AWARD Malaysian External Trade Development Corporation (MATRADE) 2004EXPORT EXCELLENCE AWARD FOR EDUCATION SERVICESOur rankings have shown consistent improvements, and we expect to meet our target of being placed in the Top 250 universities globally by 2025 and to maintain our place among the top 1% of universities worldwide.HOW WE ARE PERFORMINGEDUCATION AND STUDENT EXPERIENCEUCSI University is a vibrant community of learning and scholarship. At present, more than 12,000 students study at the University covering a range of areas from our popular business programmes to performing arts, hospitality, engineering and science. We see our growing numbers as testament to our commitment to delivering excellence both in and out of the classroom. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic student enrolment for 2022 has been strong with the Sarawak campus having seen an increase since the pandemic began as students opt to study closer to home. With the re-opening of borders, we expect international student numbers to return to pre-pandemic levels. As we look forward to 2025 we expect to have a diverse student body of 20,000. We are constantly upgrading our teaching and campus facilities and work towards creating a community environment in all our campuses to cater to our growing student body.
Top 100 inPerforming Arts
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
9
Industry Linkages & Community Engagement Projects, 2021
PublicationPublication/staffCitation/staffCitation
70006000500040003000200010000
2017
2018
2019
2020
20212091052563574876017
5003633192368216.4810.261.385.060.941.37STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPSWe believe that our student’s success and 100% employability rate  stems from the praxis learning model we have implemented. To that end, the faculties and University continuously works at expanding our industrial network to provide placements for all students as part of their education. 
EXCELLENCEImpactful research is a key priority and will continue being a major aspect of our future. Outstanding faculty members have been recognised as being among the top 2% of researchers worldwide for their work. In 2021, the University ﬁled for two patents, 36 copyrights and three trademarks. Unique and specialised research is an area in which staff will see increasing support in terms of coaching, mentoring and assistance in the coming years. 
Research Performance, 2017-2021
MOHE, 2019 via: https://ge.mohe.gov.my/CarianGraduateEmployabilityBI.aspx  
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
10SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
FACULTY OFAPPLIED SCIENCEFACULTY OFBUSINESS &MANAGEMENTFACULTY OFSOCIAL SCIENCES& LIBERAL ARTSINSTITUTE OFMUSICFACULTY OFPHARMACEUTICALSCIENCESFACULTY OFMEDICINE &HEALTH SCIENCESFACULTY OFHOSPITALITY &TOURISMMANAGEMENTUCSI University is a pioneer in sustainable development goals. This includes university-wide implementation of SDG initiatives and the development of a green campus. In 2019, we received the Appreciation Award for our contribution to Sustainable Development Goals. UCSI’s contributions has been recognised by the United Nations University, as Regional C e n t r e  o f  E x p e rt i s e  ( R C E ) ,  h e n c e ,  i t  r e m a i n s  a s  t h e  o n l y  organisation that have two such recognitions; RCE Kuching and RCE Greater Kuala Lumpur.Most recently UCSI has been serving the local community as a vaccination centre against COVID-19. UCSI opened centres in partnership with the national vaccination initiative in the Kuala Lumpur and Springhill campuses. Our faculties also have their own community engagement projects that generate positive community impact across the country.Award
TOTAL    88Selected Awards• Outstanding Woman Researcher in Pharmacology (Venus International Foundation)• Global Nutrition Early Career Scholar Award (American Society for Nutrition)• Dasilva Award (The Society of Biotech., Japan)• IEEE-HKN Outstanding Chapter Award (IEEE-HKN Board of Governors)• Life-Time Golden Achievement Award (Bharat Rattan Publ.)International5Eg.. Young Scientists Network (ASM-YSN)National Outstanding Young Innovator Award (Private Edn. Corp)National8 • Gold Award (6) • Special Award (4)• Silver (6)• Bronze (6)R&D Exhibition(MTE, ITEX, SIIF)22Best oral presenter, best paper award, best poster awards, best video award, etc.Other awards53Select Research Awards, 2021
Modernization of aquacultureindustry in Pulau Kukup, Johortowards responsible farmingAwareness of drone pilot asa new carrier and responsibilityof drone operation in rural areacommunity. Heritage – Nyonyaculture1st UCSI Young ChefChallenge CulinaryOn-line Cooking CompetitionSHAPING A HEALTHYFUTURE – HEALTH CARNIVALEngage with orphanage Cheras(Rumah Sayangan and BodhiCheras)Wellness Conversation;a project  series“Tranquil Tuesdays”Medication Experts@ Geriatric Homes 
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
11STRATEGIC ROADMAPOur Roadmap has ﬁve concise goals to take the University forward to 2025. Each goal has been carefully considered and has several associated initiatives designed to support the successful implementation of the Roadmap via monitoring and assessing key measurables along the way. The roadmap will pave the way for a continuous journey of growth in the long term. 
Each of the Goals is multifaceted with several detailed initiatives to achieve the overall goal. Each initiative has deadlines and measurable outcomes thatwill allow us to track theimplementation and impactof the Roadmap as we goforward.Putting Students First and Foremost in all that we do. From launching our own Happiness Index to nurturing excellence, student outcomes are key to the Roadmap.
The Roadmap has been developed from the bottom up, incorporating key input from faculties and students. Using a tailor-made framework, faculties and students reviewed what they perceive to be our strengths, weaknesses, as well as sharing their experiences and ideas from which speciﬁc Roadmap initiatives were derived. Each initiative corresponds with the ﬁve overarching goals which we view as necessary to strengthen the University and transform student and staff experiences as we move forward to 2025 and beyond. STRATEGICROADMAP GOALS1STUDENT CENTRICITYGOAL2GOAL3GOAL4GOAL5GOALINCLUSIVE & SUSTAINABLE GROWTHIMPACTFUL RESEARCH
CUTTING EDGE TECHNOLOGYREPUTATION FOR EXCELLENCETechnology underpins our transformation and growth, not only in the classroom and laboratories but throughout the campus as we aim to be a fully smart campus. IR 4.0 courses and teaching toolswill also be a key means to achieving our goal.To serve our students better we strive for recognition of our centres of excellence, not only in global rankings but also through initiatives to support both staff and students We expect to produce leaders oftomorrow, and we have several coaching and mentoring initiatives to maintain excellence in our people and the university.Achieving research that positively changes lives means supporting faculty research goals by continuing to build critical industry linksand research collaborations. We also recognise the importance of supporting staff to reach their potential.Caring for our community is key to our future. Be it in our inclusive, flexible learning modules, or in our commitments to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, our growth targets are more than just numbers.
InitiativesImplementation & Measurables
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
12ACHIEVING OUR GOALS
•••••GOAL 1: STUDENT CENTRICITYOur students are at the centre of this Roadmap. Guaranteeing positive student outcomes includes more than employability. Our initiatives such as the unique Happiness Index w i l l  allow students and staff to freely and regularly voice needs and expectations. We aim to develop a vibrant atmosphere at all of our campuses. This will involve increasing recreational facilities for both sport and social activities to create a home-away-from-home atmosphere.  In addition, we will be launching annual student-staff faculty formal dinners to add to the university experience outside of the classroom. We will continue our popular scholarship programme as we grow, aiming to provide over 3,000 scholarships by 2025. As we move towards recovery from the pandemic, we expect to once again support and expand exchange and mobility programmes – both inbound and outbound by 30% per year. Annual student awards will also be held by each faculty to recognise and encourage excellence whilst adding to the fun learning environment of UCSI. One of our unique initiatives is to fully implement our smart campus initiative by 2025 w i t h  a  f u l l y  i n t e g r a t e d  ecosystem that covers administration and access to wellness services such as medical insurance claims, counselling, and medical treatment. To assist new students, we will also use digital student ambassadors to connect with future and prospective students. Our network with industry allows all our students to have practical work placements during their studies. As a praxis university we strongly believe that this focus sets our graduates apart to enjoy 100% employability.A quality education is why students come to us, and we aim to give as much individual attention as possible to help students reach beyond their potential. By 2025 we expect that all faculties at all campuses will have both a Star Trek and All-Star student programme. Our All-Star programme helps identify students who may beunderperforming and give them additional support to achieve more. The Star Trek programme is for outstanding students, to keep them motivated and challenged whilst recognising their skills. We expect students to have greater ownership of the University and its future and will expand our student ambassador programme. Launching our UCSI Happiness IndexIntegrating UCSI e-Wallet for administrative ease.One stop student centre for all administrative issues.Improving and increasing recreational facilities for staff and students.Launching Annual Faculty dinners for staff and students.Initiative 1: Campus Experience
Continuing our scholarship programme to encourage students from a diverse background.Capacity-building outside traditional learning via inbound and outbound mobility programmes as well as international exchange programmes.Nurturing excellence – Regular student awards to encourage and reward excellence including Innovation, Caring, Entrepreneur and Outstanding Achiever annual awards.Initiative 2: Teaching and Learning
Fully smart campus by 2025 so that students have an enhanced and stimulating learning experience.To appoint digital student ambassadors.Initiative 3: Smart Environment•••••••Appointing industry leaders to the Board of Studies to ensure programmes meet current job market needs. Ensuring faculties have an appropriate number of industry leaders and experts attached to keep learning relevant.Initiative 4: Industrial Placements
Academic programmes to enhance student learning to be expanded, such as mentoring as well as All-Star programme to help students achieve potential as well as the Star Trek programme to cultivate and encourage outstanding students. Expand the Student Ambassadors programme to ensure that students feel ownership as part of the university.Expand Student volunteerism in order to contribute back to the community.Initiative 5: Enriched CommunityKey Initiatives
•••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
13GOAL 2: INCLUSIVE & SUSTAINABLE GROWTHAs part of our inclusive growth, and in line with national education directions, we will be growing our flexible learning courses t h r o u g h o u t  t h e  u n i v e r s i t y .  F l e x i b l e  learning courses such as micro-credentials, APEL, TVET , MOOCS and ODL, offer students alternative entry points to higher education and continued professional education. This is in response to government goals to increase the number of tertiary education participants and graduates – particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds and those who have been ﬁnancially impacted by the pandemic. These courses carry less ﬁnancial and time constraints whilst upskilling the labour force. UCSI University has a strong and unique commitment to environmental sustainability. We were an early adopter to the UN’s SDG and will be expanding these commitments operationally and academically. Some of our highlights include the TS Omar National Award in which higher learning institutions can participate. We have an ambitious target to attract more students and meet our target of doubling student numbers to 20,000 by 2025. As the job market and industries evolve we have, and will continue to, expand our course offerings to stay abreast of changes. In-line with student growth, our campuses are also expanding. Our new Kuching campus facilities will be launching in 2023.In line with this, is our work towards communityimprovement. Social responsibility is something we take seriously and expect students to be involved in our community outreach projects – both at the university and faculty levels. Looking forward to 2025, we expect 70% of faculties to have formally integrated sustainability into programme offerings, with a focus on responsible consumption. Within the university, we also incorporate a prosperous, harmonious, progressive, socially responsible and sustainable approach for staff and student well-being. Ensure that each faculty has APEL, TVET, MOOCS and ODL programmes to promote diversity and inclusivity. These flexible pathways are key for disadvantaged and mature students to gain certiﬁcation towards a degree. Initiative 1: Flexible Learning••••••••Mainstreaming practice into all operations including our Green Ofﬁce Audit. Expand current SDG awareness quizzes.Expand SDG related courses and integrate into formal learning so that each faculty has at least 2 courses.Expanding Undergraduate and Postgraduate degrees in sustainability. Promoting the TS Omar National Award.Rolling out green campus initiatives to increase green buildings, energy efﬁciency, tree replanting, recycling and improve waste management. Green campus progress is published in our annual Sustainability Report. Initiative 2: UN SDGs
Active and diverse recruitment for local and international students.Increasing course offerings in-line with job-market and demand trends.Campus expansions.Initiative 3: Expansion
The Happiness Index also forms part of our renewed focus via other initiatives to keep track of and assist in our community’s general well-being. This will see support available to both staff and students alike.As part of our ofﬁcial Anti-corruption commitment, we will also work towards maintaining full transparency in our fees and charges. Our vibrant community outreach programmes will be extended and increased.Initiative 4: Social Responsibility••••••Key Initiatives
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
14GOAL 3: IMPACTFUL RESEARCHSpeciﬁc, research related industrial linkages aretransformative in producing impactful and relevant research. This of course is driven by our facultyresearchers – some of whom have been recognised as being in the top 2% of global researchers. This is an area we are keen to develop and will be supporting the faculties to cultivate research excellence. We expect that by 2025 5% of our faculty staff will be r egar ded in this esteemed category. Part of this support includes mentoring research staff to become thought leaders in their ﬁelds as well as a carefully designed research agenda to achieve maximum impact via patents, copyrights and trademarks. In 2021 alone, the university applied for 36 copyrights, two patents and three trademarks. Supporting the increase in grants awarded to the university is also a key initiative in meeting our research goal. We have targeted a 30% year-on-year increase in grants. As a praxis university, faculty consultancy and advisory work is a crucial element in ensuring faculty are exposed to current market demands in their ﬁeld and balances academic research agendas. We have set a 20% year-on-year increase in consultancy fees up to 2025. Strengthening and increasing industry and government collaborations for the purpose of driving research. Expanding the number of research attachments of staff and students in laboratories or industry.Increasing Transnational Education partners.Ensuring that all students have the opportunity to participate in industry or ﬁeld-speciﬁc projects. Building on MOUs and MOAs in line with research agenda.Initiative 1: Industrial Linkages••••••••••Faculty members in the top 2% of global researchers to  drive a research agenda that is impactful and relevant.Increasing our faculties’ citations and indexed publications. Increasing high impact proprietary work via patents, copyrights and trademarks.Supporting staff to become thought leaders through mentoring programmes.Aligning research with our SDG commitments.Initiative 2: Thought Leadership
Increasing our public and private sector funded research grants. Expanding faculty participation in industry or sector-speciﬁc consultancy and advisory work.Initiative 3: Grants & Consultancy
Increasing international linkages for signiﬁcant improvement in research, teaching and learning.•••Initiative 4: InternationalisationKey Initiatives
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
15
GOAL 4: CUTTING EDGE TECHNOLOGY••By 2023 we expect to have fully implemented our smart campus technology, covering wellness, the booking of facilities, as well as administrative and payment services via our UCSI eWallet. We want to stay ahead of technological developments and the smart campus will increase efﬁciency as well as expose students to a technology-rich environment. We will continue to work towards upgrading our IR 4.0 laboratories, aiming to have IR 4.0 integrated in 20 of our learning laboratories. To complement this, we will be strengthening our start-up incubator support to ensure IR 4.0 technology transfer. Programmes in reskilling and upskilling staff and students in IR 4.0 will be made available and thereby expand the number of students able to use, understand and meet future job requirements. Digitalisation and efﬁciency improvements will see a full roll-out of our dashboard system by 2022. This will allow easy and real-time tracking of quality and rankings as we move forward with our Roadmap. This digitalisation extends to the teaching and learning experience. Technology is constantly transforming communication, learning and teaching and we aim to stay ahead of the curve by upgrading teaching facilities, supporting staff in adopting and integrating new teaching technologies.Fully implementing our new IT system across campuses.Expanding our own unique Living Application ecosystem that includes UCSI eWallet and and integrated wellness access.Initiative 1: Smart Campus
Adding on to our IR 4.0 laboratories to have 20 by 2025.Ensuring that there is in-built technology transfer via start-up incubators.Reskilling and upskilling of staff and students in IR 4.0 technologies.Initiative 2: IR 4.0••••••Implementing a dashboard system to track quality and ranking data.Ensuring ISO compliance and OSH audits.Integrating all operational platforms.Initiative 3: Digitalisation
Transforming our teaching and learning experience through technology and upgrading of facilities such as labs, lecture halls and studios.Increasing digitalisation in our teaching and learning delivery.Initiative 4: EfﬁciencyKey Initiatives
••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
16GOAL 5: REPUTATION FOR EXCELLENCEInternational independent rankings are useful indicators of excellence. In setting our goals and initiatives we fully expect to see our ranking increase to be among the Top 250 universities worldwide by 2025. We will be constantly looking for new and innovative ways to strengthen our faculty recognition and achievements. By 2025, we expect to have over 24 degree offerings that are recognised by professional bodies. Another target area for the university is to increase the recognition of our centres of excellence, by increasing collaborations with Nobel Laureates, producing more leading specialists and experts. In order to support the centres of excellence, we believe we will need to invest in our staff by supporting exchange programmes, providing immersive technology training and implementing a Mentor-Mentee p r o g r a m m e  a c r o s s  t h e  f a c u l t i e s .  I n  addition, we are targeting to have 90% of teaching staff to hold PhDs by 2025.Strengthening and improving faculty recognition, achievements and visibility.Improving ranking place to top 250 university worldwide.Serial faculty publications highlighting achievements.Increasing programmes with professional recognition.Maintaining 100% graduate employability.Initiative 1: Rankings
Increasing recognition of our Centres of Excellence.Improving high-level collaborations with Centres including with Nobel Laureates and industry.To produce leading specialists and experts.Initiative 2: Centres of Excellence
Increasing the number of faculty members with PhDs.Supporting staff exchange programmes to cultivate talent.Immersive technology training for staff. Implementing a faculty-wide Mentor-Mentee programme.Initiative 3: Growing Talent
Leadership coaching for staff and students.Leadership and talent programme for staff.National and international recognition through competitions and awards championed by UCSI University.Maintaining a cohesive local and international alumni network. Initiative 4: Leaders of TomorrowKey Initiatives
••••••••••••••••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
17GOAL 2: INCLUSIVE &SUSTAINABLE GROWTH100% of faculties to have Microcredential, APEL, TVET, MOOCS and ODL programmes by 2023.Initiative 1: Flexible Learning100% of ofﬁces participating in the Green Ofﬁce Audit by 2024. Participation targets for SDG quizzes.Each faculty to have 2 sustainability courses by 2025.Expand degrees in sustainability to ﬁve by 2025. Expanding TS Omar National Award to 50 higher learning institutes by 2025.Publish green campus progress and green audit results via annual Sustainability Report.Initiative 2: UN SDGs
Target 20,000 students by 2025.CAGR of 20% per year with 6,000 new students annually.Target new courses per faculty per year.New Kuching Campus launch – 2023.Initiative 3: Expansion
Happiness Index measurements - maintain a minimum staff happiness rate of 80%, student happiness rate of 75%.Increasing our community outreach projects by 10% year-on-year.Initiative 4: Social ResponsibilityMeasurablesMEASURES OF OUTCOMEGOAL 1: STUDENT CENTRICITYPublished UCSI Happiness Index – maintain a minimum staff happiness rate of 80%, student happiness rate of 75%UCSI e-Wallet to be 100% implemented by 2023.One stop student centre to resolve all administrative and enrolment processes within 3 days by 2025.Monitoring satisfaction with recreational facilities via the Happiness Index.All faculties to host Annual faculty dinners by 2023.Initiative 1: Campus Experience
Increasing scholarships to 3,000 recipients by 2025.30% year-on-year increase in inbound and outbound mobility and international exchange programmes.To launch inaugural student Innovation, Caring, Entrepreneur and Outstanding Achiever awards in 2022.Initiative 2: Teaching and Learning
Fully smart campus by 2023.To have 15 digital ambassadors by 2025 with the ﬁrst ﬁve rolled out in 2023.Initiative 3: Smart EnvironmentMinimum 2 industry leaders appointed to each faculty Board of Studies by 2022.To have a minimum 100% of students taking up industrial placements or internships by 2025.Initiative 4: Industrial Placements
100% of faculties participating in Star Trek and All-Star programmes by 2025.To have at least 35 student ambassadors by 2025.100% Faculty participation in the volunteer programs.Initiative 5: Enriched CommunityMeasurables•••••••••••••••••••••••••••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
18GOAL 3: IMPACTFUL RESEARCHMinimum 2 government agency collaborations per faculty per year. To have 11 key industry collaborators by 2025.15% of research attachments of staff and students in laboratories or industry.Increasing TNE partners to 12 by 2025.Increasing students participation in industry or ﬁeld-speciﬁc projects by 10% year-on-year. Increase MOUs and MOAs to 10 per year by 2025.Initiative 1: Industrial Linkages
5% of faculty members to be in the top 2% of global researchers.Increase average citation per faculty member to 4 per year.Increasing patents by 30% year-on-year.Increasing copyrights by 20% year-on-year. Increasing trademarks by 10% year-on-year.All research staff to be involved in research speciﬁc mentoring programmes.Initiative 2: Thought Leadership
Increasing research grants by 30% year-on-year.Increasing faculty consulting and advisory work by 30% year-on-year.Initiative 3: Grants & ConsultancyTo establish 2 top international linkages per faculty by 2025.Initiative 4: InternationalisationMeasurablesGOAL 4: CUTTING EDGETECHNOLOGY100% implementation of new IT system by 2022.100% implementation of unique Living Application ecosystem by 2023.Initiative 1: Smart CampusAdding on to our IR 4.0 laboratories to have 20 by 2025.Producing 10 start-ups per year by 2025. 70% of staff to be skilled in IR 4.0 technology use and application by 2025. Initiative 2: IR 4.0
100% implementation of quality and ranking dashboard by 2022.Continued 100% compliance and passing of ISO compliance and OSH audits.100% integration of operational systems by 2023.Initiative 3: Digitalisation
All learning facilities to be upgraded by 2025, including labs, lecture halls and studios.100% digitalised teaching and learning by 2025.Initiative 4: EfﬁciencyMeasurables
•••••••••••••••••••••••••
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
UCSI University Strategic Roadmap 2022 - 2025 
19GOAL 5: REPUTATION FOREXCELLENCEImproving ranking place to top 250 university worldwide by 2025.150 serial faculty publications highlighting achievements by 2024.To have 24 programmes with professional recognition by 2025.Maintaining 100% graduate employability.Initiative 1: Rankings
To have 6 recognised Centres of Excellence by 2025.Minimum 5 high-level collaborations per faculty per year including with Nobel Laureates and 2 per year with industry.Initiative 2: Centres of Excellence90% of faculty members to hold PhDs by 2025.Minimum 10% of staff to participate in exchange programmes by 2024.Minimum 10% of staff to have industry attachments by 2024.Minimum twice yearly technology training for staff. 100% participation in Mentor-Mentee programme.Initiative 3: Growing Talent
Minimum 2 days leadership training per staff per year by 2022 – academic and non-academic.Launch 6 flagship annual national/international competitions by 2025.Increasing alumni as brand advocates to 70 by 2025. Initiative 4: Leaders of TomorrowMeasurables
••••••••••••••
UCSI Consulting Group Sdn. Bhd. (774433-W)
