Nagoya University MIRAI 2020 
Nagoya University Matsuo Initiatives for Reform,  
Autonomy and In novation 2020 
 
  
General Vision 
Through excellence in its education and research, Nagoya  University aspires to become 
one of the world's leading univ ersities. We aim to do this by first, building on our 
partnerships throughout Asia; second , increasing innovation by emphasizing 
collaboration; and third, incr easing autonomy in the administra tion of our university.    
  
Strategic Aims 
To achieve our goals we ar e focused on the following: 
  
1. By promoting world-class education, fost ering intellectual leaders with courage 
who can contribute to human happiness. 
2. Inspired by Nagoya University’s Nobel laureates, supporting the creation and 
discovery of knowledge through research.    
3. Based on a long and close relationship wi th Asia, building a more diverse campus 
community.  In particular, we continue to  reduce the gap in gender equality by 
supporting female students, faculty and staff. 
4. Taking advantage of our location in one of the world's most dynamic industrial 
regions, supporting research and innovation that contributes to the betterment of 
society. 
5. Acknowledging the importance of “shared governance,” the President will lead 
reform of the university administration. 
  
Education 
By promoting a world-class educat ion, we aim to foster fearle ss intellectual leaders that 
can contribute to human happ iness. Our goals include: 
 
1. Improving quality of educatio n through organizational reform. 
2. Reviewing current educational policies, with emphasis on conferring of degrees, 
design of curriculum, and accep tance of new studen ts. As part of these reforms, we 
intend to change th e relationship between Nagoya University and its affiliated secondary 
school, as well as its relations hip with other secondary schools.  
3. Admitting excellent students by improvi ng the entrance examination system and 
establishing an admissions center. 
4. Improving international compatibility of our education system by introducing such 
changes as a shift from a semester system to a quarter system and an international 
joint degree program. 
5. Introducing an educational quality assurance system. 
6. Building on past MEXT projects includ ing the “Leading Grad uate School” and 
“Business Capacity Development Cent er,” establishing a new umbrella 
organization called the Institutio n for Academic Development. 
7. Collaborating with the private sector, increa sing support for non- traditional students 
and extending opportunities for continuing education. 
8. Increasing support for a more diverse student body. 
  
Research 
Inspired by our Nobel laurea tes, we are committed to th e creation and discovery of 
knowledge through resear ch. Our goals include:  
 
1. Led by the “Institute for A dvanced Research,” “WPI,” and “Institute of Innovation 
for Future Society,” continuing to promot e cutting-edge resear ch accessible to the 
widest possible audience. 
2. *Encouraging basic research across all Schools and research centers. 
3. Recruiting, retaining and suppo rting the most talented fa culty, in particular women 
researchers, foreign researchers, and young researchers. 
4. Promoting international colla boration in research and ed ucation with the world's 
best universities through the Academic  Consortium 21 (AC21) and other 
international networks.  
5. By promoting international collaboration in  research and educat ion in Asia with 
projects such as the “Asian Satellite Cam pus,” we seek to be come known as an 
“Asian Hub University.” 
6. To improve faculty research, using a system of “University Research 
Administrators” and encouragin g the sharing of university facilities and equipment.  
  
International 
We are developing a university that attracts the best stude nts, faculty and staff from 
around the world and contributes to creating a more sustainabl e society. In particular, we 
seek to work closely with countries in Asia . Our goals include: 
 
1. By 2020, improving our campus environment such that the number of international 
students rises to 3000 and faculty member s with international experience grows to 
650. 
2. By 2020, increasing the number of Nagoya University stud ents studying  abroad to 
1000. 
3. Increasing the number of students enroll ed in the full-deg ree English taught 
programs (G30) and expanding the number  of English-taught classes on campus 
(G30 Next). 
4. Establishing a crisis management system fo r students, faculty and staff dispatched 
overseas. 
5. Creating a more internationa lized environment on campus. 
6. Establishing an organization for rese arch on ASEAN (ASEAN Net PLUS).  
7. Expanding the “Asian Sa tellite Campus” project. 
8. Promoting internationalization by collabora ting with other universities in Central 
Japan (Aichi Prefecture, Gifu Prefecture, and Mie Prefecture). 
  
Academic-Industrial Collaboration 
Taking advantage of its location in one of th e world's most dynamic industrial regions, 
we support research and innovation that contributes  to the betterment of society. Our 
goals include: 
 
1. For the purpose of “industry-academia-government collaboration” and “open 
innovation,”  establishing a new “Future In tegrated Electronics Research Center.”  
2. Taking advantage of previous projects, su ch as the Center of Innovation program 
(COI), strengthening support fo r interdisciplinary research. 
3. Strengthening Industry-Academia Collab oration by the hosting of Industry- 
Academia Collaborative Research Courses and Research Centers. 
4. Supporting new industries through technolog y transfer and the fostering of start-up 
companies. 
5. Increasing entrepreneurial education a nd Industry-Academia collaboration by 
fostering people who can contribute value to society. 
6. Led by the Disaster Mitiga tion Research Center, increa sing regional resilience by 
establishing a new model for four-party collaboration. 
  
University Hospital 
By serving as a hub, we will st rengthen University Hospital activities to lead the next 
generation in medicine, condu ct world-class clinical res earch and consultation, and 
foster human resources in medicine. Our goals include: 
 
1. Reforming the organization for strengthen ing important medical ca re fields such as 
cancer, organ tran splants, etc. 
2. Establishing a “Hospital Development Plan ” for a more effective use of space in 
medicine, such as constructing a cutti ng-edge Medical Function-Strengthening 
Building and remodeling the Ce ntral Consultation Building. 
3. Using our overseas offices, expanding in ternational activities of the University 
Hospital including a support for endoscopy  medical care in Asia and collaborating 
with Thai Bangkok Hospital. 
4. Anticipating the next gene ration in medical care, strengthening regional medical 
care collaboration such as promoting activ ities for the effectiv e use of medical 
human resources. 
5. To promote cutting-edge c linical study as a center of innovative medical technology 
creation, receiving approval in accordance with the Medi cal Care Act to become a 
“Clinical Study Focused Hospital”. 
6. Providing safe and secure medical servic es through strengthening of a monitoring 
system led by the “Hospital Quality Improv ement Promotion Office,” etc.   At the 
same time, we will foster medical huma n resources who can contribute to quality 
improvement of medical care. 
  
Affiliated Secondary Schools 
As a national university with an affiliated secondary school, we wi ll evaluate and and 
advance their mission and activities.  Thes e actions are expected  to contribute to 
development of the university. 
 
1. By collaborating in educational programs with other high schools, we will reform 
the admissions system fo r individual students. 
2. Implementing advanced secondary education programs and expanding long-term 
and short-term exchange student capacity,  we will further internationalize the 
affiliated secondary school. 
  
Organizational Management 
Acknowledging the importance of “shared gove rnance,” the President will lead reform 
of the university administ ration. Our goals include: 
 1. Reforming the structures of Schools/Graduate Schools to strengthen education and 
research activities through comprehensive ev aluation of Engineering, Informatics, 
Humanities and Social Sciences. In particular: 
 
(A) Reorganizing the School/Graduate Schoo l of Engineering to foster graduates 
capable of playing a key role in the global manufacturing industry. 
(B) Establishing a new School/Graduate Sch ool to foster greater diversity among 
Information-related graduates who can create new social values and help 
solve the numerous challe nges faced by humanity. 
(C) Reorganizing Humanities-related School /Graduate Schools to foster graduates 
who understand cross-cultural issues cruc ial in this era of  globalization. 
(D) Encouraging activities of the Gradua te School of International Development 
to help solve issues on a global scale. 
(E) To conduct more integr ated research, reorganizi ng the Solar-Terrestrial 
Environment Laboratory, the Geospace Research Center and Hydrospheric 
Atmospheric Research Center in to th e “Space-Earth Environment Research 
Center”. 
(F) Establishing the “Future Materials a nd System Research Center” to lead 
innovative research on mo re efficient energy use. 
 
2. To support those univers ity activities contributing to building a world-class 
research university, we will strengthen ou r financial infrastruc ture. In particular: 
 
(A) Securing various financ ial resources through Industry-Academia collaboration 
such as external funding from corporat e training and joint research projects. 
(B) Supporting preparation of faculty grant proposals  to increase competitive 
funding and subsidies for research and education. 
(C) Managing costs in administra tion, research and education. 
(D) Strategically distributing resources an d using assets to strengthen university 
activities. 
(E) To mark the 150th anniversary of the founding of our university, raising a 10 
billion yen fund by the year 2021. 
(F) Establishing a financial strategic team  for developing strategies using know-
how from both inside an d outside the university. 
(G) Securing university hospital income by strengthe ning hospital activities. 
 
3. Creating a world-class university campus. In particular:  
(A) Sharing the university’s vision for the future af ter reviewing and 
implementing the “Campus Master Pl an” to ensure the highest quality 
environment for education and research.  
(B) Planning and im plementing facility management  to construct a sustainable 
university campus. 
 
4. We will promote gender equality on campus in collaboratio n with Asia and the 
wider world. In particular: 
 
(A) Establishing a Gender Eq uality Promotion Center. 
(B) Raising to 20% the number of female faculty members (principle investigators 
and young researchers) and promoting female managers. 
(C) Creating an organization where empl oyees can maintain a balance between 
work and child-care. 
(D) Promoting gender equality through Academia-Industry-Government 
collaboration. 
 
 
5. We will strengthen admi nistrative infrastructure to achieve the Nagoya University 
mission. In particular: 
 
(A) While acknowledging the importance of  “shared governance,” effectively and 
flexibly assigning resources (personne l, budget, facilitie s and equipment) 
through the leadership of the President. 
(B) Using various methods, such as Netw ork Governance, to examine important 
measures and challenges. 
(C) Strengthening infrastructure of the ad ministrative organizat ions that support 
the management of the university an d enhancing management abilities of 
faculty members’ and administrative staff. 
(D) Establishing IR (Institutional Resear ch) functions, led by the President, to 
provide university-wide data for evid ence-based university management  
(E) Reforming human resources policy, such  as annual salary , cross appointment 
and the tenure track system 
 
 
6. Implementing an intern al control system and new risk management system 
suitable for an intern ationalized university, as well as enhancing compliance of 
members of the Nagoya Universi ty community. In particular: 
 
(A) Along with pursuing th e development and implementation of an internal 
control system, increasing awareness an d enforcing adheren ce to regulations 
and guidelines. 
(B) Strengthening ability to send and receiv e information about risk, as well as the 
network through which the information is shared. 
(C) Deploying staff and strengthening collaborations with risk management 
specialists. 
(D) Strengthening collaborat ion with overseas univers ities and institutions in 
relation to global risk management. 
