Institutional 
Priorities and 
Strategic 
Framework
2021-2024
Office of the 
President
2
Vision: Impact, Ambition and 
Transformation through Excellence, 
Inclusion and Community:  
Advancing Human and Societal 
Health and Well-being
Contents
President’s Message  ..................................................... 3
Overview  ........................................................................ 4
Institutional Priorities .................................................... 5
Priority 1:  Inclusive Excellence  ................................... 6
Priority 2:  Teaching and Learning  ................................ 8
Priority 3:  Research and Scholarship  ........................ 11
Priority 4:   Engaging Local, National, Indigenous,  
and Global Communities  .......................... 14
Priority 5:  Operational Excellence  ............................. 17
Land acknowledgement:  McMaster University recognizes and 
acknowledges that it is located on the traditional territories of the 
Mississauga and Haudenosaunee nations, and within the lands 
protected by the Dish With One Spoon wampum agreement.
Sculpture of a boat-like form created by Ernest Daetwyler. 
Located on front lawn of McMaster Museum. 
The Boat Project/everythingwillbefine, commissioned for 
the McMaster Museum of Art’s Artist Garden 2018-2020.
3President’s Message 
The many discussions and consultations I 
engaged in during 2020 with members of the 
McMaster community and beyond provided 
a great deal of feedback and thoughtful 
commentary about our collective aspirations 
and goals. A clear picture emerged of 
the commitment of members of our University to making a 
positive impact on the world, developing the partnerships and 
collaborations needed to support our scholars and ensure that we 
are well positioned to tackle the major local and global issues we 
face, and building a clear sense of community and belonging for 
everyone. This collective sense of ambition and desire for positive, 
societal impact is captured in our refreshed vision statement:
Impact, Ambition and Transformation through Excellence, 
Inclusion and Community: Advancing Human and Societal 
Health and Well-being
This new vision statement is intended to capture both the depth 
of our collective aspirations and desire for impact, as well as 
our commitment to inclusive excellence and serving the global 
community in all that we do.  In referencing the current positioning statement, the vision statement links McMaster’s historical and 
continuing strengths and commitments with our intentions and 
goals for the future.
Despite the challenging times in which we all find ourselves, I 
am extremely optimistic about our University and all that we can 
achieve together. As a number of colleagues have remarked to 
me recently, it is time for us to start dreaming again. I invite all 
members of our community to do exactly that.
The Strategic Plan which follows focuses our collective efforts 
around five key institutional priorities and lays out a strategic 
framework for addressing them. I intend this to be a living 
document, reflective of our nimbleness and innovative approach, 
and look forward to working with the entire McMaster community 
to bring both our vision and strategic plan to life and increase our 
positive impact locally and globally.  
David Farrar,  President and Vice-Chancellor
The life-sized sculpture of 
the University’s namesake 
was a gift from the Alumni 
Association to the University 
in recognition of its 125th 
anniversary in 2012.
Students sit and 
socialize in front of the 
Sir William McMaster 
statue in front of 
University Hall.
4Overview
Mission Statement:  At McMaster our purpose is the discovery, communication and preservation of 
knowledge. In our teaching, research, and scholarship, we are committed to creativity, innovation and 
excellence. We value integrity, quality, inclusiveness and teamwork in everything we do. We inspire critical 
thinking, personal growth, and a passion for lifelong learning. We serve the social, cultural, and economic 
needs of our community and our society.
McMaster University is a research-intensive, student-centered 
institution dedicated to advancing human and societal health and 
well-being. We are a uniquely differentiated institution with a 
global reputation for innovation in teaching and learning – closely 
aligned with world-leading research excellence that generates 
significant knowledge, enables creativity, advances human 
understanding, and delivers positive societal and economic impact. 
McMaster is focused on preparing our students to be engaged 
and thoughtful citizens, equipped with the skills, knowledge, 
resilience, and understanding needed to make a positive and 
effective contribution to the world. As we transition through 
the current pandemic and evolve as an institution, we are well-
equipped to continue to provide an outstanding, personalized 
learning environment for our students, whether in the virtual 
or the physical environment, and to take advantage of the many 
opportunities for innovative interdisciplinary programming and 
collaboration that is a McMaster hallmark.
Across all six Faculties, we have the ability and the creativity 
to partner and collaborate on the knowledge, discoveries, and 
innovation that are needed to make a positive and decisive impact 
on our society and world. It is this nimbleness and engagement 
across Faculties and academic disciplines, as well as across 
borders as we collaborate with scholars and research teams from 
other universities and countries, that will support our successful 
evolution into a post-pandemic world. Our recognition of the 
importance and power of diversity at all levels of the University is 
a vital part of our strength, as is our approach to the building of 
partnerships based on mutual respect and reciprocity, whether at 
the local or the global level.Our vision is to use our collective skills, knowledge, and 
understanding to improve the world and to make an impact in 
addressing the big issues we face ranging from climate change 
to health and well-being, inequity, poverty, disease, and access to 
education, to name but a few. Across our Faculties, McMaster’s 
researchers, scholars, teachers, and students have the knowledge, 
creativity, and skill to work together across disciplinary boundaries 
and knowledge systems to find solutions to these and other global 
issues. In nurturing and supporting excellence across the institution 
and at all levels, we have the ability to emerge strongly from 
the pandemic, to contribute to the local and global community in 
significant and impactful ways, and to empower our students to 
transform our world.
Our vision is to use our collective 
skills, knowledge, and understanding 
to improve the world and to make an 
impact in addressing the big issues 
we face ranging from climate change 
to health and well-being, inequity, 
poverty, disease, and access to 
education, to name but a few. 

5Institutional Priorities 
McMaster’s Strategic Plan is based around five key priorities: 
Inclusive Excellence
Aspire to embed an inclusive 
approach that intentionally 
engages and respects 
a diversity of peoples, 
perspectives, and ways of 
knowing, in everything we do.
Engaging Local, National, 
Indigenous and  
Global Communitites
Further develop and expand our 
network of longstanding and respectful 
partnerships with communities, 
partners, research collaborators, and 
supporters for the benefit of all.Teaching and Learning
Further advance and support innovation 
in teaching and learning, within and 
beyond the classroom, and across 
disciplines and Faculties, to elevate 
teaching as a professional discipline, 
and equip our students with the 
knowledge and skills needed to make a 
transformative impact on our world.
Operational Excellence
Enable the administrative 
operations of the University to 
most effectively support the 
institutional vision and aspirations 
of our community of researchers, 
scholars, teachers, and learners.Research and Scholarship
Be the go-to place for world-class 
researchers and collaborators who 
share our values and commitment to 
working together across disciplines, 
sectors, and borders to develop 
knowledge, tackle global issues, and 
advance human understanding.
These priorities form the 
foundational elements of 
our plan with each priority 
becoming a strategic 
goal with associated 
objectives, activities, and 
metrics. It is intended to 
be a living and evolving 
document and will serve 
as McMaster’s agenda 
and accountability 
statement for the next 
three years.
1
4
2
5
3
6Priority 1:  Inclusive Excellence  
Goal:  Aspire to embed an inclusive approach that intentionally engages and respects a diversity of peoples, 
perspectives, and ways of knowing, in everything we do.
Inclusive Excellence is an approach that recognizes that a diversity 
of peoples, perspectives, knowledges, and ways of knowing must 
be intentionally and authentically engaged to achieve McMaster’s 
vision for excellence and transformational impact through student 
learning, scholarly research, and global and local community 
engagement. In aspiring and working to be an inclusive community 
we recognize that diversity is our strength and that better outcomes 
and greater impact are achieved as our diversity is increased.
To secure and sustain the requisite diversity for educational and 
academic excellence, the University has already established a 
robust EDI Strategy and is implementing a comprehensive Action 
Plan with a three year time horizon. Strategic actions, which aim to 
achieve four broad goals, have been identified across six thematic 
objectives: (1) enhancing campus-wide understanding and efficacy; (2) enhancing data-informed and evidence-based planning and 
practice; (3) improving inclusivity of curriculum and scholarship;  (4) 
enhancing inclusive leadership capabilities; (5) enhancing support, 
consultation and engagement of historically underrepresented 
and underserved students, faculty and staff; and (6) enhancing 
recruitment and retention of historically underrepresented 
students, faculty, and staff.  
Alongside this institutional strategy, and recognizing the unique 
position of Indigenous peoples within our community and society, 
as well as the obligations arising from McMaster’s commitment to 
respond to the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission of Canada, an Indigenous Education and Research 
strategy is being developed under the leadership of the Indigenous 
Education Council.
A joint effort of McMaster 
University, McMaster Students 
Union and many friends, this 
garden is a symbol of our 
commitment to harmony and 
respect of all.
Pictured here,  
students sit and reflect 
in the Nina de Villiers  
Rose Garden.
7OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Systems and Structures  - 
Establish and enact organizational 
systems, structures, policies, 
and processes that mobilize 
and sustain Equity, Diversity and 
Inclusion (EDI) commitments and 
resources through leadership, 
governance, and accountability.• Enhance the campus community 
understanding of inclusive excellence 
as an institutional imperative, and 
improve campus-wide EDI efficacy.  
• Enhance inclusive leadership 
capabilities by establishing baseline 
EDI training requirements and offering 
ongoing professional development.
• Enhance systems and resources to 
support data-informed and evidence-
based EDI-related planning, decision-
making, and practice.• The extent to which EDI priorities and goals are integrated 
in institutional strategic documents and implemented across 
unit portfolios with adequate resources.
• The proportion of current board and senate members, 
executive officers and senior academic/administrative 
leaders who self-identify as members of Equity Deserving 
Groups (EDG) and the proportion who complete the baseline 
EDI training designed for senior leadership and governing 
bodies. 
• The extent to which EDI efforts are resourced and set up for 
success, measured by the proportion of human and financial 
resources allocated to advancing strategic EDI priorities and 
goals.
Enhance and Innovate  -  
Develop and advance research 
and academic programs, 
teaching and learning practices, 
and broader educational 
opportunities, in a manner that 
exemplifies inclusive excellence, 
interdisciplinary approaches, 
societal relevance, and impact in 
diverse local, regional, national, 
and global communities.• Enhance inclusivity and opportunities 
for interdisciplinarity in curricula and 
scholarship across Departments and 
Faculties. • The extent to which students have opportunities to develop 
EDI-related academic and professional skills, measured 
as the proportion of IQAP submissions that address EDI in 
curriculum design, the proportion of courses with critical 
social inquiry/practice learning outcomes, and student 
enrolment in these courses.
• The extent to which EDG scholars and EDI-related 
scholarship are recognized and rewarded in the research 
eco-system, measured by the proportion of Tri-agency grants 
and chairs awarded to members of EDGs and the proportion 
that support EDI-related research methods and impacts.
• The extent to which EDG faculty and staff are recognized 
and rewarded in teaching and service, measured by the 
proportion of EDGs awarded University teaching and service 
honorifics.
Community Building  - Build and 
support a community continuously 
developing attitudes, knowledge, 
and skills to foster positive 
interpersonal and intergroup 
relations, a culture of respect and 
inclusion, and a climate where 
all members of the community 
experience dignity and belonging. • Enhance opportunities for meaningful 
consultation with, engagement of, 
and provision of support to historically 
underrepresented and underserved 
students, faculty and staff.• The extent to which community members feel a sense 
of dignity and belonging, measured by self-reported 
experiences of respect, inclusion and equity. 
• The extent to which managers are equipped to advance EDI, 
and the extent to  which community members are equipped 
to foster respectful, inclusive and equitable relationships,  
measured by the proportion of individuals who participate in 
baseline EDI training designed for those groups.
Promote Diversity - Attract and 
engage a campus community of 
learners, scholars, practitioners, 
and leaders that reflects local and 
national demographic diversity, 
including groups historically and 
contemporarily underrepresented, 
underutilized, and underserved in 
higher education.• Enhance the recruitment and retention 
of historically underrepresented 
students, faculty and staff through 
targeted initiatives, including the 
Black Academic Excellence hiring 
initiative, the student access strategy, 
and the targeted hiring of Indigenous 
faculty and staff in alignment with the 
Indigenous Education and Research 
strategy.• The extent to which admissions and employment policies 
and practices integrate EDI principles and priorities, and 
decision-makers/adjudicators are equipped to identify and 
remove barriers to student access and success, as well as 
in employee recruitment, progression and retention policies 
and practices. 
• The extent to which EDG students and employees have 
opportunities to enter, advance and succeed in the 
University, measured by recruitment, progression and 
retention data.    
8Priority 2:  Teaching and Learning 
Goal:  further advance and support innovation in teaching and learning, within and beyond the classroom, 
and across disciplines and Faculties, to elevate teaching as a professional discipline and equip our students 
with the knowledge and skills needed to make a transformative impact on our world.
The response to COVID-19 has necessitated major changes to 
the teaching and learning environment. While McMaster remains 
focused on ensuring that faculty, staff, and students have the 
technological and other supports they need to succeed in this 
changed learning environment, this is also an opportunity to 
harness the positive aspects and technological advances that have 
been made as we focus on active learning and ensuring the best 
possible educational experience for our students. The Teaching and 
Learning Strategy will address this in further detail, but our overall 
goal is to define and expand experienced-based learning, locally 
and globally, both curricular and co-curricular, through partnerships and interdisciplinarity, and provide innovative and varied 
approaches to inclusive and scholarly teaching that are focused 
on creativity, risk-taking, and reflection, and elevate teaching as a 
professional discipline. 
Ultimately, we are preparing our students to make a positive impact 
on the world, recognizing that one of the major contributions to 
society that McMaster can make within Canada and beyond is 
graduating students who can serve as thoughtful and resilient 
global citizens and can make, advocate for, or support effective and 
positive change in the world.
Students are encouraged 
to collaborate and share 
ideas across disciplines 
and Faculties.
Pictured here, 
students collaborate 
at a whiteboard in 
the Economics Lab.
9OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Continue to engage in Partnered 
and Interdisciplinary Learning , 
exemplifying an environment 
that is inclusive of diverse 
perspectives across disciplines 
and embraces global insights in all 
aspects of the learning experience 
and that engages students as 
partners and active participants in 
the learning process, eliciting their 
deep curiosity to explore beyond 
traditional disciplinary boundaries 
and supporting them to become 
globally engaged citizens. • Design and implement structures that enable students 
to be active partners in the learning process and 
engaged through peer support, mentorship, teaching, 
research, and community learning. 
• Identify and remove structural barriers (policies, 
processes, practices) to interdisciplinary learning 
across the University and find ways to enable, support, 
recognize and reward interdisciplinary teaching and 
learning.
• Apply an EDI lens to teaching and learning activities, 
including developing strategies to ensure diverse 
perspectives and expansive ways of knowing are 
respected and valued.
• Develop an agreed McMaster definition of 
“experience-based learning” and seek to expand 
experience-based learning, locally and globally, 
providing for a range of approaches to teaching and 
learning that are focused on skills development, 
application, and reflection.• Numbers of Interdisciplinary and Inter-
Faculty Degree Programs developed and 
implemented.
• Student reflections, feedback and 
assessment of interdisciplinary learning 
experiences.
• Agreement of a McMaster definition of 
“experience-based learning” and increased 
numbers of students who are provided with 
experience-based learning opportunities.
Focus on the continued 
development of Holistic, 
Transformational, and 
Personalized Student 
Experiences , recognizing that 
our graduate and undergraduate 
students are at the core of our 
community and are critically 
important in advancing the 
positive impact of our University 
through their engagement as 
students in research, creative 
projects, social and commercial 
innovation, and the development 
of local and global connections, 
and post-graduation as they 
make use of the knowledge and 
skills acquired at McMaster. 
The development of a holistic 
student experience, beginning 
in the first-year and extending 
beyond the classroom, is intended 
to promote personal growth, 
support health and well-being, and 
enhance a sense of belonging and 
connectedness in our community. • Implement increased opportunities for first year students 
to engage in small group learning experiences, high 
impact learning practices, and interdisciplinary learning 
to foster curiosity and possibility.
• Remove barriers and promote flexibility and choice 
for students upon entry into programs and throughout 
program progression to allow for a personalized 
educational experience.
• Enhance and expand teaching development 
opportunities for educators around student mental health, 
inclusion, accessibility, and safety needs (e.g., course 
design, compassionate response to student needs).
• Support students in their personal and professional 
development beyond the classroom, through co-op 
and internship opportunities, including on campus and 
international work placements, opportunities to lead 
and participate in clubs and societies, to launch their 
own ventures, to live and act as mentors in on-campus 
residences, to volunteer within the community, and to 
participate as members of varsity and intramural teams.  
• Explore expanded ways to support students as they 
prepare to enter the job market and begin their careers, 
ensuring that they are equipped with the skills to be 
successful in the evolving modern workplace, as well 
as the more traditional core learning outcomes.
• Focus on the development of modern, inspiring physical 
spaces that enable and promote connectedness 
and community within the student body, and support 
academic success, personal growth, and health and 
well-being across our diverse student body.• Numbers of first-year programs that allow for 
a small group learning experience.
• Expanded suite of teaching development 
opportunities related to student mental 
health, inclusion, and accessibility.
• Increased number of students living in 
residence as additional residence spaces 
become available; increased number of 
co-op/internship opportunities; increased 
number of work-abroad opportunities; 
increased number of volunteer opportunities 
and students employed on campus (work-
study and co-op).   
• Enhanced careers support and advice 
available centrally and within Faculties and 
Departments, including making use of the 
expertise and support of McMaster’s alumni 
and broader community of supporters. 
• Completion of the Student Activities and 
Fitness Expansion, providing 100,000 square 
feet of fitness, study, event, lounge, prayer 
and meeting space; completion of the Main 
Street and Graduate Student Residences; 
and completion of the McLean Centre 
for Collaborative Discovery, including 
collaborative, academic, innovation, and 
community space.
10
OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Support and advance Inclusive 
and Scholarly Teaching, valuing 
and recognizing teaching as 
a foundational aspect of the 
McMaster experience and 
encouraging creativity, risk taking, 
and originality in our teaching practices. Continue to focus on 
the critically important integration 
of research and teaching at 
all levels across the University 
and embed EDI principles into 
teaching excellence.• Refine policies and processes to demonstrate that
teaching is valued and recognized as a professional 
practice, including the establishment of a knowledge 
translation and exchange process to support research-
based teaching practice.
• As our learning environments and teaching approaches 
continue to evolve, further promote innovation and improvement in the assessment and evaluation of 
student learning, as well as in the evaluation of the 
quality, relevance, and impact of teaching.• Policies reviewed and updated to more 
clearly recognize and value teaching.
• Development of a process to share 
educational research and scholarly literature on teaching to support practical advances to 
teaching processes.
• Development of meaningful, authentic means 
of assessments that promote learning and 
foster collaborative projects and evaluations, 
and provide means to recognize the quality 
and impact of teaching.
Focus on the development of Active and Flexible Learning 
Spaces, ensuring that whether in 
an online, face-to-face, or blended 
format, we use learning spaces 
with intention and purpose. 
Beginning with learning outcomes 
our goal is to align our spaces to 
support those outcomes, ensuring 
accessibility and inclusivity in order to meet the diverse needs of 
our community members. 
Recognizing the ways that 
online and virtual classrooms 
have changed the teaching and 
learning environment for both our educators and our students, 
use evidenced based research to 
make decisions about tools and 
platforms to optimize learning in 
the digital environment.• Develop best practices for learning that are focused 
on the intentional consideration and integration of on-campus learning spaces (classrooms, labs, libraries, 
studios), online learning spaces, and community 
spaces for learning.
• Design all new physical and virtual spaces to be 
universally accessible: designed to be supportive, barrier-free, mental health positive, and adherent 
to policies relating to health, safety, accessibility, 
and inclusion, and engage members of relevant 
communities in design discussions wherever 
appropriate. 
• Develop and implement a clear Digital Learning 
Strategy that enhances and complements the face-to-face learning experience.• Development of best practices that allow 
for the intentional integration of on-campus, blended, and online learning spaces.
• Development and implementation of 
McMaster’s first Digital Learning Strategy.
DeGroote School of 
Business students confer 
with Dr. Catherine Connelly, 
Canada Research Chair in 
Organizational Behaviour.
11Priority 3: Research and Scholarship 
Goal: be the go-to place for world-class researchers and collaborators who share our values and 
commitment to working together across disciplines, sectors, and borders to develop knowledge, tackle 
global issues, and advance human understanding.
The ongoing pandemic has brought into sharp focus the importance 
of accurate data and research, and the need for interdisciplinary approaches to solve the biggest problems facing our world. McMaster has the ability and ambition to make a transformative, positive impact at the local, regional, national, and global level in areas ranging from physical and mental health to pandemic preparedness, climate change, social justice, Indigenous Ways of Knowing, and advanced manufacturing (to name just a few). Our goal is to be a global leader, recognized for our ability to solve the complex issues facing our world; using our knowledge and creativity to enable a fairer, more equitable future for everyone. The impact of our research and scholarship, particularly as it relates to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, a series of critically important, interconnected goals, is a key area of focus across the campus. The launch of the Brighter World Research Initiative, with the initial focus on Canada’s Global Nexus for Pandemics and Biological Threats, in which all six Faculties are involved, provides a path to focus our revenue-generation efforts in support of our researchers and demonstrate the global impact of the work undertaken in labs, libraries, and offices across our campus and with our partners.
Our scholarship encompasses fundamental research, artistic and 
cultural endeavours, and community-based and interdisciplinary collaborations, all of which contribute to the body of human knowledge and to our broader understanding of our world and the global issues we face. Our intention is to develop ambitious and strategic goals for our research and scholarship over the coming months and to further extend our institutional networks, impact, and influence. 
Dr. Vargas-Baca’s group has pioneered 
the systematic study of the application 
of the supramolecular interactions 
formed by atoms of sulfur, selenium 
and tellurium to construct functional 
multimolecular structures. Knowledge 
derived from this work is highly relevant 
to applications in areas as diverse as 
chemical synthesis, optical technologies, 
electronics and inorganic polymers.
Pictured here, Ph.D. 
candidate Peter Ho, 
works in Dr. Ignacio 
Vargas-Baca ’s Lab in the 
Department of Chemistry 
& Chemical Biology.
12OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Global Leadership and Impact - Redefine 
how McMaster engages in research and scholarship to enable us to work together 
across disciplines, tackle major global 
issues, advance our global leadership and 
the positive impact of our research, and 
expand the body of human knowledge and 
understanding.• Building on our rich history of research excellence, 
develop and support an environment that enables 
basic and applied reseach to excel across 
disciplines, knowledge systems, sectors, and 
borders, that enables us to tackle major global 
issues, and to recruit and retain the highest calibre 
faculty and gradute students.
• Create structures that allow our research centres 
and institutes to build capacity, attract faculty, and design academic programs to ensure a 
seamlessness between teaching and research.
• Build flexibility into Tenure & Promotion and Career 
Progress Merit structures to encourage and 
recognize researchers and scholars who move 
across disciplines to advance the output and impact 
of their work through interdisciplinary institutes. 
• Invest resources in research administration (MILO, 
ROADS, HRS) to maximize the institutional support and reduce the administrative burden for our 
researchers.
• Design pathways for Indigenous undergraduate 
students – who wish to pursue a research path – to 
facilitate entry into graduate programs.• Advancement of EDI goals; increased 
number of highly cited researchers; increased number of prestigious national 
and international awards.
• High-performing, globally recognized 
research centres and institutes; 
opportunities for interdisciplinary 
graduate programs; seamless integration 
of research and teaching; increased 
collaborations with academic, industry, 
and government partners. 
• Increased funding received from federal 
granting agencies; increased multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional grant 
applications, and strategic partnership 
development; greater success in 
major innovative, comprehensive and 
competitive funding competitions.
• Creation of mentorship programs; 
increased investment in Indigenous Undergraduate Summer Research
Scholars Program. 
Be a driver of Economic Prosperity  
and Social Innovation • Create a seed fund to support early stage start-ups 
coming out of research.
• Develop mechanisms to support student and 
faculty entrepeneurs throughout the entire 
innovation pipeline – from idea to implementation 
– and help bridge to scale-up within McMaster 
Innovation Park’s space and capacity. Provide 
sufficient flexibility in enrolment and support 
for graduate student entrepreneurs to allow the 
development of start-ups and social innovation 
initiatives at different points within academic 
careers, including mid-degree. 
• Develop a process for allocating space and/
or resources on the strength of the potential 
for commercial or innovation success and 
opportunities for diverse teams of researchers.
• Invest resources to expand mentorship and 
Entrepreneur-in-Residence programs to increase 
opportunities for impact.
• Coordinate all mentorship networks and engage
alumni to support innovation initiatives.
• Recognize and resource foundational research as 
critical to knowledge transfer, social innovation, commercialization, and the advancement of our 
society and strengthening of civil life.• Increased number and quality of start-
ups and licenses; increased opportunities 
for additional follow-on financing.
• Increased number of spin-offs; job 
creation and growth for Hamilton region; increased inventions and copyright 
disclosures submitted and patents filed; 
enhanced opportunites for partnerships 
and private sector funding. 
• Increased social innovation projects and 
partnerships with community partners 
and entities.
• Streamlined activities and access to 
experts/mentors to expand number of ventures; increased community outreach
and alumni engagement. 
• Recognition of contributions to the body 
of human knowledge through citations, 
increase in peer reviewed publications, 
artistic and cultural performances, and 
social impact.
13OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Collaboration and Partnership - Expand 
our international outreach, influence, and 
impact through research partnerships, 
collaborations, and exchanges, as well as 
through contributions to the body of human 
knowledge.• Establish key international partnerships to 
accelerate research excellence and exceptional 
educational experiences.
• Develop a strategy to increase the number of 
students and researchers who participate in international partnership exchanges and research 
collaborations.
• Capitalize on reputation, talent, and capacity 
of centres and institutes to develop innovative 
international partnerships and academic 
exchanges.• Increased ability to address UN 
Sustainable Development Goals; make a 
positive difference to the world, attract 
global recognition, and enhance our 
ability to attract international talent –
faculty and students.
• Increased number of new international 
partnerships; international grants; 
exchange programs for graduate and 
undergraduate students; opportunities 
for co-supervision and co-authored 
publications; rise in international 
rankings.
• Graduate students with global 
awareness, understanding, and immersive cultural experiences – no matter their 
discipline or chosen profession.
Pictured here, Thrombosis 
and Atherosclerosis Research 
Institute (TaARI) lab manager, 
Dr. Dhruva Dwivedi, oversees 
grad student Jaskirat Arora 
inspecting lab experiment 
samples.
14Priority 4:  Engaging Local, National, Indigenous,  
and Global Communities 
Goal:  Further develop and expand our network of longstanding and respectful partnerships with 
communities, partners, research collaborators, and supporters for the benefit of all.
McMaster has a critically important and ongoing role to play in 
the transformation of Hamilton, our region, and our country, and 
an equally important role to play in fostering global partnerships 
and citizenship. Our goal is to continue to work in partnership 
with our City and our local Indigenous communities, and operate 
as a trusted and respectful partner to the communities we serve, 
both locally and globally, engaging in principled partnerships with 
communities to foster and promote community-based research 
and knowledge mobilization. We also seek to expand community 
engaged and globally connected educational offerings, including 
enhancing the opportunities available in a virtual environment. 
Alongside this we are committed to teaching and modelling a 
sense of positive global citizenship, engaging in discussions about 
public policy, data and democracy, and fostering the skills of critical 
thinking and comprehension needed to evaluate information and 
seek truth and accuracy.  Although the restrictions on travel arising as a direct result of 
COVID-19 have changed the way we collaborate and engage at 
an international level, international research collaborations and 
partnerships continue to flourish as our researchers and scholars 
find ways to connect and continue their research in the virtual 
environment. We remain focused on building and expanding 
effective international partnerships at the undergraduate, graduate, 
and faculty level, and on further enhancing the global profile of the 
University. 
McMaster also remains deeply committed to building on our 
longstanding partnership with Indigenous communities in the Dish 
with One Spoon territory and to working closely and respectfully 
to advance our response to the recommendations of the Truth and 
Reconciliation Commission.
The fair is an opportunity for 
undergraduate and graduate 
students to learn about opportunities 
to support local organizations that 
can help develop skills and provide 
valuable experience.
Pictured here, the annual 
Community Engagement 
and Volunteer Fair is 
held in the McMaster 
University Student Centre.
15OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Further advance the Principles of 
Community Engagement as the foundation of community-campus partnerships, 
developing the many connections 
between the University and the greater 
Hamilton community and local Indigenous 
communities, expanding the number of 
principled partnerships with communities, 
ensuring that they address both 
community and University priorities, and 
fostering and promoting community-based 
research and knowledge mobilization.• Build collaborative relationships across sectors 
ensuring that the principles of equity, reciprocity, 
and sustainability are the foundation of the 
relationships.
• Improve campus communications to lessen 
duplication of effort and to coordinate requests and 
responses to community priorities.
• Develop connections between researchers and 
community partners and continue to identify and work toward eliminating barriers to community-
based research and knowledge mobilization. 
• Strengthen McMaster’s role as a national leader 
in community engagement, social innovation, and 
social impact, ensuring ongoing collaboration 
with universities, colleges, and relevant networks 
and organizations to share best practices and 
coordinate efforts to address societal challenges.• Increased numbers of connections and 
partnerships based on the principles.
• Alignment of funding opportunities and 
distribution strategies with partnership 
development and collaborations.
• Appropriate recognition of work done by 
faculty, staff, students, and community partners that aligns with the principles.
• Enhanced communication about the 
impact and outcomes of McMaster’s community engagement initiatives locally, 
nationally, and globally.
In support of our goal of developing our 
students as engaged and thoughtful 
global citizens, support and expand 
curricular and co-curricular experiential 
and community engaged and globally 
connected educational offerings, including enhancing the opportunities 
available in a virtual environment.• Enhance and develop experiential and community 
engaged learning experiences, including developing, designing, and curating community 
informed educational resources for remote and 
in-person experiential and community learning. 
• Promote curricular and co-curricular experiential 
and community engaged learning opportunities, with the goal of ensuring that all students have 
access to quality experiential and community 
engaged learning opportunities.
• Engage in activities that promote the 
internationalization of our curriculum including engaging with international partners to give
lectures and host events, and promoting campus-
wide opportunities for cross-Faculty dialogue to 
facilitate knowledge dissemination and foster 
interdisciplinary international interactions.• Increased numbers of curricular and 
co-curricular community engaged and globally connected experiences 
available to students in both the remote 
and in-person learning environment.
• Develop a portfolio of collaborative 
on-line international learning (COIL)opportunities; engage with and 
contribute to the eMOVIES initiative 
in Latin America.
Recognizing the unique position of Indigenous peoples within our community 
and society, support and advance the 
Indigenous Education and Research Strategy being developed under the 
leadership of the Indigenous Education 
Council.• Continue to respond to and advance the 
recommendations of the Truth and Reconcilliation Commission of Canada with regard to addressing 
the systemic barriers experienced by Indigenous 
learners, faculty and communities, including 
advancing the enrolment and hiring of Indigenous 
students, faculty, and staff across the University.
• Support the implementation and advancement of 
the Indigenous Education and Research Strategy once finalized.
• Support the growth and advancement of the 
Indigenous Studies Program, including its evolution from a program to a Department, and the creation
of a graduate program in Indigenous Studies. • Successful hiring of increased 
numbers of Indigenous faculty and 
staff, and increased enrolment of 
Indigenous students.
• Evolution of the Indigenous Studies 
Program into a Department and the 
creation of a graduate program in 
Indigenous Studies.
16OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Continue to develop and advance our 
engagement with the global community  
guided by principles of integrity, 
reciprocity, reflexivity, sustainability, 
and transformation, through our course 
offerings, international exchange 
opportunities, research collaborations, and 
opportunities for knowledge dissemination, 
and interdisciplinary international 
interactions.  • Foster global citizenship among students, faculty, 
staff, and administration through institutional 
participation in global initiatives, including 
international partnerships in support of research 
and academic excellence, and engagement in 
addressing global issues. 
• Integrate global awareness in students’ learning 
and co-curricular experiences, both on campus and 
through international mobility, including exchange 
programs, joint international programming, the 
joint supervision of Ph.D. students, and related 
international engagement for education.
• Develop a significant set of equitable merit-based 
graduate scholarships for international graduate 
students to expand the range of programs to which 
international graduate students can be accepted 
and supported, establish a competitive advantage 
for McMaster, and promote the global diversity of 
our graduate researchers.
• Identify specific institutions, countries, and regions 
that offer the best opportunities for sharing of 
learning and knowledge, as well as enhancing 
research, education, and social and economic 
development. 
• Support international research and scholarships, 
including giving tangible evidence to staff and faculty 
that international engagement is a valued activity. • Increased numbers of joint international 
programs, student exchange 
arrangements, jointly-supervised Ph.D. 
projects, and dual degree programs.
• Development of a foundational Global 
Engagement course available to all 
students. 
• Increase in faculty and student 
engagement in virtual global learning 
opportunities.
• Development of an institution-wide 
strategy identifying key institutions, 
countries, and regions to engage with for 
mutual benefit.
• Enhanced communication about the 
impact and outcomes of McMaster’s 
global and community engagement 
initiatives locally, nationally, and globally.

17Priority 5: Operational Excellence 
Goal: enable the administrative operations of the University to most effectively support the institutional 
vision and aspirations of our community of researchers, scholars, teachers, and learners.
To ensure the best possible support for our faculty, staff and 
students, it is vital that we have professional, inclusive, and highly efficient administrative processes in place across all areas of the University. Our goal is to modernize and streamline systems and processes in all areas and to enable the administrative areas of the University to be creative and innovative, responsive to changing circumstances, and equipped with the training and resources needed to support and enable the work of our researchers, scholars, teachers, and learners. We will continue our renewal of administrative processes across all areas of the University and will seek to leverage and apply best practices, modernize processes, and enhance services, no matter where the work is performed. We will also continue and advance our focus on sustainability, environmental stewardship, and accessibility across our campus operations.
We will also continue to support our staff in a way that is 
responsive to the evolving needs of our diverse community, advancing professional development, inclusive learning and growth, and supporting personal well-being and a sense of community and belonging. Recognizing the importance of our EDI and Indigenous Strategies, we are also committed to the continued development of opportunities for ongoing education and leadership training for administrative leads and to implementing equitable administrative processes that reflect and respect those strategies.
The conference strengthens and 
encourages the career and personal 
growth of McMaster employees 
by exploring ideas, suggestions 
and strategies. It offers employees 
the opportunity for professional 
development, networking with 
colleagues, and a chance to support 
their personal well-being.
Pictured here, employees 
take part in the annual 
Inspiring from Within 
Employee Develo pment 
conference.
18OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Integrated Planning  - Through 
integrated planning between 
the administrative and 
academic leadership of the 
University, adopt a “One 
University” approach to ensure 
that operational policies and 
processes and organizational 
design are optimized to deliver 
high quality, nimble, and efficent 
support services to our diverse 
community of researchers, 
scholars, teachers, and learners. • Build out service delivery and governance 
platforms for core functional services on a cross-
campus basis, creating platforms and communities 
to facilitate integrated planning and action and 
finding models that facilitate a decentralized 
delivery model while ensuring comparative 
effectiveness and efficiency among peers.
• Invest in the professional development of 
administrative staff across the campus and ensure 
that the organizational design facilitates high 
quality service delivery.
• Continue to play a leadership role in global and 
national study groups and with selected partners to 
identify and implement  best practices.• Refreshed Administration strategy.
• Benchmarks: service effectiveness and efficiency.
Transformative IT Structure 
- Working as a connected 
community, McMaster will 
deliver a seamless foundation 
of core and transformative 
information technologies 
and services, accelerating 
the University’s teaching, 
learning, and research mission 
and enabling engagement, 
adaptability, and connections at 
all levels of the institution.• Develop a standardized, scalable, and integrated 
technology infrastructure as the foundation for 
transformative information technologies and 
services. 
• Invest in strong data integrations and automation 
tools to create ‘delightful’ technologies and world-
class experiences for students, faculty, and staff. • Integrated service desks; networking tools; asset 
management and IT career frameworks to facilitate 
community development.
• Completion of critical infrastructure to support 
research and teaching/learning; robust information 
security and data protection.
• Delivery of transformative solutions such as 
0365 applications; CRM; document management; 
mobile applications; research technology and data 
governance.
• Benchmarks: IT and transformational expenditures; 
maturity assessments.
Cultivate human potential  by 
enabling University strategy in 
a manner which is responsive 
to the evolving needs of our 
diverse community, delivering 
service excellence, pursuing 
opportunities for ongoing 
improvements to service delivery 
models and empowering 
and supporting professional 
development, inclusive learning 
and growth, and a sense of 
community and personal well-
being. • Build out the suite of Human Resources 
philosophies, policies, and programs to support 
an engaged and inclusive campus community that 
attracts, retains, and supports the high-calibre, 
diverse talent needed to deliver the University’s 
strategy.
• Continue to develop and advance a diverse range 
of professional development programs, leadership 
training, opportunities for inclusive learning 
and growth, and well-being initiatives and work 
to increase awareness of such programs and 
opportunities.
• Continue to implement and advance the various 
action items identified by the HR Review, 
modernizing and enhancing payroll, service 
delivery models, and professionalizing HR support 
across the campus.
• Review learnings from COVID-19 and retain 
positive workplace flexibility practices and use of 
technology in “back to campus” planning, and in 
support of personal well-being for faculty and staff 
across the institution.• Refreshed HR Strategy, integrated with the EDI 
strategy.
• Completion of HR Review action plans.
• Benchmarks: Improved service effectiveness 
and efficiency; campus health and well-being; 
workforce planning; bargaining mandate 
achievements; increased awareness of and 
engagement with professional and personal 
training programs.
19OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES ASSESSMENT METRICS
Campus Environment  - Provide 
a functional, accessible, 
sustainable, and attractive 
campus environment that 
promotes and supports 
learning, teaching, research, 
and community engagement, 
together with a high-quality 
service and support to building 
occupants.• Design, construct and maintain signature buildings 
to deliver contemporary research, teaching, 
learning, and administrative space that facilitates 
University strategy, delivers on our sustainability 
goals, and supports the attraction of high-calibre 
faculty, staff, and students.
• Advance and support the development of 
McMaster Innovation Park consistent with 
University research, innovation, commercialization, 
and revenue generation strategies.• Refreshed Facilities strategy.
• Completion on budget and on schedule of approved 
capital projects.
• Benchmarks: service effectiveness, sustainability, 
and efficiency.
Living Laboratory for 
Sustainability - Engage our 
community as we work to 
transform our campus into a 
living laboratory for sustainability, 
accessibility, and inclusion, 
focusing on carbon reduction, 
energy and waste management, 
with the ultimate goal of being a 
carbon free campus.• Work with stakeholders to consider 
recommendations for the sustainable use of West 
Campus.
• Develop a sustainability plan and annual report 
in a cross-campus collaboration evidencing 
the University’s commitment to the relevant UN 
Sustainable Development Goals and supporting 
progress towards a carbon free campus.• Refreshed Campus Master Plan.
• Sustainability Report.
• Energy Management Plan Initiatives.
• Benchmarks: GHG consumption; utility costs.
Financial Stewardship and 
Risk Mitigation - Develop 
and steward the University’s 
financial assets, including the 
development of alternative 
revenue strategies to optimize 
and enable institutional priorities. 
Ensure McMaster retains a 
strong and sustainable financial 
position that takes account of 
risk and engages appropriate 
mitigation strategies.
Through cross-campus 
collaboration ensure that 
financial systems are secure 
and provide effective and 
efficient service to the University 
community.• Continue to build out the University’s capital 
planning processes to ensure the optimal use of 
financial resources.
• In addition to the fundraising and stewardship 
initiatives led by University Advancement, develop 
the Alternative Revenue Strategy for the University, 
including the development of the real estate 
portfolio, research commercialization initiative, 
and a sustainable and financially-responsible 
development plan for McMaster Innovation Park 
that generates long-term value for the University, 
financially, reputationally, and academically.
• Execute ancillary service recovery plans post-
pandemic, returning them to high-functioning student 
and campus support services that contribute 
meaningfully to the University’s financial position.
• Complete the review of the University’s approach 
to risk management and related organizational 
structure, with the goal of ensuring that risk review 
and mitigation is embedded within decision-making 
practices.• Board-approved Alternative Revenue Strategy with 
relevant aspects activated.
• Alongside the ongoing carbon reduction strategy, 
develop a formal strategy to allow the University to 
meet its divestment goals, as well as promoting the 
ongoing sustainability of the campus.
• Benchmarks: Bond rating; Investment 
Management performance; investment portfolio 
carbon measurements; deferred liability funding.
• Completion of the review and development of an 
implementation plan for risk management.

Office of the President, 1280 Main St. W. Hamilton, ON  L8S 4L8  president.mcmaster.ca
