Strategy Home i The school i Welcome to the School i
A mission: bui lding the worlds of tomorrow. Tackling m ajor societal challenges has been essential to the School’s
history and continues to gui de it. So bui lding a future in a world that is becoming aware that resources are limited
and that hum an activities affect the environment at planetary scale, is a formidable challenge that the young
generations graduating from the School will need to take on.
AN ASPIRATION: TO BE A LEADING INTERNATIONAL PLAYER
In a fast changing environment of globalized education and research, with growing international competition, Éc ole
des Ponts ParisTech maintains its aspiration to be a leading international player in higher education and research.
Working on big societal challenges:
- City and m obility systems
- The indus tries of the future 
- Econom ics, practices, and society.
- Management of risks, resources, and environments.
With influence in three major academic domains:
- Civil engineering, Env ironment, Transportation, C ities
- Econom ics, Finance, Indus trial Engi neering
- Mathematics, Information Technology, Mechanical Engi neering, a nd M aterials Sciences
FOUR MAJOR PRIORITIES
The quest for interdisciplinary and partnership-based excellence
Through a n enhanced scientific positioning, the School is developing research focused on i nnov ation and knowledge
transfer in suppor t of business competitiveness.
Renewed educational programs
The engineering education pr ogram has been reformed, ne w Masters programs have been created in respons e to
the new societal priorities and to the needs of companies.
Three primary orientations drive the development of education at École des Ponts ParisTech: lifelong l earning,
training in innov ation and entrepreneurship, a graduate school program for education through r esearch.STRATEGY
This site uses cookies and gives you control over what you want to activate OK, accept all Deny all cookies
Personalize Privacy policyX
A strong international presence and influence
International mobility and langua ge learning are at the heart of the engineering pr ogram, with 52 pa rtner
universities in 32 c ountries on 4 c ontinents, and 9 la ngua ges taught at the School.
The School’s teaching pr ograms are open to the best students from partner universities, who now  account for
25% of engineering gr aduates.
Finally, the School is a member of prestigious networks (T.I.M.E., IDEA League), which confirms the international
reputation of  its educational programs.
Enhanced special relationships with businesses 
The School has close relations with more than 400  companies and or ganizations. This web of rich, long-term
relationships feeds into bot h teaching and research, fostering innov ation and pr ofessional adaptability in our
graduates.
This site uses cookies and gives you control over what you want to activate  
 X
