1
Rising to the Future | Theme
University College Dublin
Belﬁeld, Dublin 4, Ireland.
www.ucd.ie

CONTENTS
Introduction
Core StatementsOur Strategic Themes  Creating a Sustainable Global Society  Transforming through Digital Technology  Building a Healthy World  Empowering HumanityOur Core ObjectivesOur Key EnablersEmbracing and Shaping Change
2
48
18
2836

	3
Rising to the Future
UCD Strategy 2020-2024 2 UCD Ireland’s Global University 
We are facing an age of unprecedented 
opportunity and challenge. Society is being transformed by digital and communications technology and is itself transforming the very environment which supports all life on earth. From a communications and transport perspective, society is more connected than 
ever before, but requires new ways of working 
together and resolving differences. INTRODUCTION
Through our research, our education 
and the many ways in which we interact with the world around us, 
universities have a vital role to play 
in these disruptive times. At UCD, we have both the opportunity and the obligation to ensure that, in 
everything we do and say, we are 
contributing to the flourishing of Ireland and the world. 
Building on the traditions of the past, we 
are a university of the future, connected and connecting, engaged and engaging, committed to a sustainable future built on 
a healthy biosphere.
We will contribute to this sustainable 
future through our graduates, through our research and through the way we 
conduct our business. As transactional 
activities will be increasingly handled electronically, human activity will revolve more and more around creativity, 
strategic and critical thinking, problem 
solving and communication.
To respond to these key trends 
innovatively and proactively, we will 
adopt four UCD strategic themes which will permeate everything that we do as an institution, guiding the development of our students, our research and our University community.
We will ensure that every member of 
our community is enabled to achieve their full potential, and we will embrace 
the principles of equality, diversity and 
inclusion so that no one is excluded.
Over the last five years UCD has 
made remarkable progress towards the 
objectives of the UCD Strategy 2015-2020. We have achieved improvements in student satisfaction; research quality, quantity and impact; student-faculty 
ratio and gender equality. Notable 
achievements have been made in the area of engagement, a central theme of that strategy. We have seen 
extraordinary increases in alumni 
engagement, industry engagement and global engagement, and a significant increase in philanthropic support. These 
achievements, made against a backdrop 
of reduced government funding for Irish universities, were enabled by our building of non-exchequer income.
During the period of the last strategy 
we moved to a five-year planning horizon, with our projections of student and faculty numbers extended to ten years, informing a strategic campus development plan. We adopted a 
financial strategy which will see our 
student-faculty ratio reduced and our infrastructure needs addressed over the period of this strategy. Hence several 
enablers of this strategy are already 
well developed. A number of objectives of the last strategy have been substantially achieved, while others, 
with significant progress already made, 
remain current and have been retained in this updated strategy.
The progress of UCD over the last five 
years is a credit to all the members 
of our University community and to our partners and supporters. We look forward to your continued support 
of UCD as we embark on this next 
chapter in the history of a truly extraordinary University.
Professor Andrew J. Deeks
 
President of University College Dublin
UCD Ireland’s Global University 4 5
 Rising to the Future | Core Statements
UCD Strategy 2020-2024Our mission is to contribute to the flourishing of Dublin, Ireland, 
Europe and the world through the excellence and impact of our research and scholarship, the quality of our graduates and our national and global engagement; providing a supportive community in which every member of the University is enabled  to achieve their full potential.
Our mottos are
►  Ad astra  ‘to the stars’ 
reflecting our pursuit 
of achievement and success.
►
  Cothrom na féinne  
‘fair play‘ reflecting our commitment to justice and equality.Our values are
► 
 excellence
►  creativity
►  integrity
►  collegiality
►  engagement
►  diversityCORE STATEMENTS
Our vision for 2024 is that:
As Ireland’s Global University, UCD will rise 
to the global challenges of the future by pursuing four strategic themes: Creating a 
Sustainable Global Society; Transforming 
through Digital Technology; Building a Healthy World; and Empowering Humanity. These strategic themes will shape our 
research, our teaching and learning and 
the way we behave and function as a community and as an institution.
We will be truly global in our 
comprehensive range of disciplines, in the reach and impact of our research and innovation, in our holistic educational 
experience, in the diversity of our University 
community, and in our engagement with all sectors of society and with all regions of the world. We will be distinctive in our welcoming and inclusive community, our 
commitment to innovation and justice, and 
our agility. We will bring the best of the world to Ireland, and the best of Ireland, including its distinct cultures, to the world.UCD will continue to be an excellent research-intensive university with global standing and impact where a 
preeminent, diverse and inclusive scholarly 
community of students, faculty and staff work in partnership to contribute to the development of Ireland and the world. 
Our graduates will be imbued with a 
knowledge of the past, be capable of critically interrogating the present and of 
imagining and realising the future. Through 
a holistic student-focused and research-led educational experience which has both breadth and depth, they will be equipped 
with the knowledge, skills, experience and 
attitudes they need to flourish in present and future Irish and global societies.

OUR 
STRATEGIC 
THEMES
Transforming through Digital Technology
Building a Healthy World
Empowering Humanity
Creating a Sustainable Global SocietyUCD Strategy 2020-20248 9
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future |  Our Strategic Themes
To shape UCD’s response to the global challenges 
created by our rapidly changing and transforming society, we have selected four strategic themes on which to focus our efforts. We will respond holistically to each of these themes. The themes will shape our research, influence the teaching of our faculty and our students’ learning, and impact on the way we behave 
and function as a community and as an institution.
We will create a governance structure 
to provide leadership to each theme, which will include relevant faculty, staff 
and student leaders to ensure that our 
response to the themes is truly holistic.
We will build awareness, knowledge and 
relevant skills in each theme area through 
training and development programmes for our faculty, staff and students, and for the wider community. In this way the 
themes will contribute to research, teaching 
and learning across our discipline areas, and will inform the way we conduct our business as an organisation. At the same time, we will continue to pursue excellent disciplinary research which enhances 
human knowledge. 
We will provide a dedicated fund for each 
strategic theme to fund innovation and 
transformation projects, with priority being 
given to projects that will have maximum impact on our University community and wider society.
01THEME10 11
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future |  Theme 1
UCD Strategy 2020-2024
As a matter of urgency, humanity must learn to live 
sustainably without degrading its shared planet.  
Food must be produced sustainably to feed 
a stable human population. Energy must be provided from renewable sources, and the 
processes of generating and storing that energy 
must not impact negatively on the environment. Material goods of all types must be made from recycled and/or renewable materials. There must 
be reduced levels of inequality within and between 
communities. These goals require significant development of technologies and infrastructure, and changes in human behaviours and institutions. 
UCD has a long-standing commitment to 
sustainability. Members of the UCD community have been to the fore in shaping the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals. We have led in 
research areas such as the bioeconomy, agri-food and renewable energy and have developed education programmes in sustainable development and humanitarian assistance. We will now build on 
this expertise to deliver a holistic response to the 
challenges of sustainability that spans and unifies our activities in this area.We will embed the principles of a sustainable society in our University community. Undertaking research which advances the 17 UN Sustainable 
Development Goals through generating, sharing 
and applying knowledge for maximum impact, we will deliver interdisciplinary educational programmes which support our students and 
graduates to contribute most effectively to 
the development of a sustainable society. 
New governance arrangements for sustainability 
will enable the University to develop, communicate, 
implement and adapt its ambitions to the challenges faced by the world. This will ensure that our campus demonstrates the principles 
of sustainability across policies and operations 
in respect of estates, energy, technology, procurement, HR, governance and partnership with our neighbours and wider community. The University will set ambitious targets and will 
report annually against these targets, becoming 
a ‘living lab’ for a sustainable community. Creating a 
Sustainable Global Society
UCD Estate Services team member surveying 
solar panels on campus residences 
THEME
0212 13
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Theme 2
UCD Strategy 2020-2024
The continuing advance of computing and mobile 
technology, with networks of increasing speed and capacity, the development of cloud computing 
and storage, the increasing number of network-
connected sensors and devices, together with significant advances in AI and machine learning is transforming entire industries and changing 
the way we work and the way companies and 
institutions are organised. Further developments in data analysis and artificial intelligence will bring new tools to many environments, allowing 
us to pursue opportunities and challenges we 
can imagine now, as well as changes we cannot anticipate but for which we must be prepared. 
Transactional activities are increasingly mediated 
by computer systems, and the cashless society is rapidly becoming a reality. Devices and apps allow consumers to interact directly with data systems with little human intervention. 
Developments in machine learning will further 
accelerate this trend, and data analysis and artificial intelligence will bring new tools to many work environments. The nature of work is 
undergoing a revolution.
UCD is already at the forefront of significant 
contributions in AI, data science and cybersecurity. 
We are widely recognised for our innovative and impactful work at the forefront of the field 
of digital culture, and we are pioneering new interdisciplinary approaches to digitally record  
and analyse our past, to better understand our present and to shape and develop our future using digital technologies.
We will continue to contribute to the 
transformations made possible by digital technology, and will realise these possibilities in our own community; in our research, teaching 
and learning; and in our operations and decision-
making. We will integrate our digital campus with our physical campus to provide a welcome, modern, and intellectually stimulating environment. 
We will embed digital technology to ask new 
questions, to discover new knowledge, and to analyse what we know afresh. We will also embed digital technology in our teaching and learning, to work together, to deliver services, and to 
monitor and understand our activities and impact 
as an institution. We will search for, discover, and introduce new ways to advance the digital literacy of our students and will provide opportunities 
for all members of our University community 
to understand and make use of the digital technologies relevant to their areas.Transforming 
through Digital Technology
Students using virtual reality headsets in the UCD Moore Centre for Business  
THEME
0314 15
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Theme 3
UCD Strategy 2020-2024
The health of all living things on Earth is intimately connected 
through the biosphere. 
From microbes living in soil through to human 
beings, the food chain and the environment connects all living things. Nevertheless, many 
advances in human, animal and plant health 
occur on the microorganism or cellular level, and personalised healthcare based on bioinformatics is developing quickly. While great strides have 
been made in treating communicable diseases, 
the incidence of non-communicable diseases 
is increasing dramatically, particularly in the developed world. Health must therefore be 
considered at multiple levels. 
UCD is the only Irish university which brings 
together human and animal health sciences, 
agriculture and food sciences, and environmental 
and social sciences. We have extensive research and teaching in food production and nutrition and health, together with expertise in personalised 
medicine, life course and human ageing. We 
are therefore uniquely positioned to address the 
education and research synergies between the sciences of human, animal and environmental health. We will advance the understanding of human, animal and environmental health and wellbeing for the benefit of society, from the cellular level 
to the population level, and from the individual 
level to the biosphere as a whole, recognising the interconnectivity between all living things and utilising the One Health concept. We will seek 
sustainable and ethical interventions of all types 
which will contribute to the health and wellbeing 
of individuals, populations and the environment. Novel interdisciplinary teaching and research 
collaborations will be promoted to address important aspects of health and wellbeing for humans, animals and the global ecosystem. We will develop and support programmes to promote 
good health, to prevent disease and ill health, and 
to treat medical conditions. 
We will make health and wellbeing programmes 
available to all members of the UCD community, 
building on the Healthy UCD initiative. We will 
position UCD as a model for a healthy society, seeking to educate all members of our community in the fundamentals of healthy living and in the 
benefits of having a healthy lifestyle.Building a 
Healthy World
Apple trees from the Lamb Clarke Historical 
Irish Apple Collection, UCD Rosemount 
Environmental Research Station 
THEME
0416 17
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Theme 4
UCD Strategy 2020-2024
Understanding what shapes human thinking and 
motivates behavioural change holds the key to successfully addressing the societal challenges 
represented in our first three strategic themes, 
and to empower all members of our University community to attain their full potential in our present and future societies. This understanding will 
also contribute to overcoming emerging societal 
issues such as mental health challenges, tribalism and isolationism, and rejection of scientific and expert knowledge.
Such societal challenges can only be overcome 
by changing behaviour. Changing behaviour is challenging, and long-lasting change will 
only come about by achieving behavioural 
change at population level. We will rise to this challenge by leveraging the breadth and depth of expertise across the university to enhance our understanding of the social, cultural and 
economic factors influencing healthy, sustainable 
human behaviour. We will also continue building a holistic understanding of the behaviour and interaction of individuals in societies, organisations 
and cultures, and an understanding of humanity 
in a broader sense.
Digital technology is increasing the number of 
people working in areas of creativity, strategic and 
critical thinking, problem solving, teamworking and communication, and these interpersonal skills are therefore increasingly important in employment and leadership contexts. With the reduction of repetitive 
routine work and the increased availability of 
every kind of distraction, intrapersonal skills of self-management and self-control are also becoming more and more important. 
Globalisation of society is bringing people from 
different countries and regions together on a scale never experienced before, while recognition of 
the value of diversity and inclusivity at a national 
level is bringing together people from different social groups. Industry is increasingly multi-national and supply chains crisscross the world. Skills of 
working across cultures, including language skills, 
are therefore increasingly important to success, understanding and problem-solving. As Ireland’s Global University, with an unrivalled diversity in our student population, we are uniquely positioned in 
the country to advance this agenda.
We will increase our research into understanding 
human behaviour in this evolving context, and 
we will provide every member of our University 
community with opportunities to develop an understanding of human behaviour and thinking, and to develop the interpersonal and intrapersonal 
skills needed to live and work successfully in a 
world which is transforming and increasingly global.Empowering 
HumanityRepresenting harmony with the elements: 
‘Wind and Water’ by Paddy Campbell 
OUR CORE 
OBJECTIVES
UCD Strategy 2020-202418 19
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Our Core Objectives
In order to achieve our vision 
for 2024 we have set four core objectives which we will pursue during the period 2020-2024. 
Our four strategic themes will be 
embraced in each of these core objectives. For each core objective we have defined key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets for those KPIs, so that we can track our progress against the objectives.
UCD Strategy 2020-202420 21
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Core Objective 1 
Excellent research, scholarship and innovation are at the heart of 
University College Dublin, spanning all our disciplines and ranging from deep fundamental investigations to leading-edge applications. 
Our commitment to the 
development and delivery of new knowledge and new solutions 
is particularly important at this 
time, as the environment and society is increasingly disrupted by technology. We will continue to 
address important questions and 
deliver impact through our findings, with particular emphasis on our strategic themes. 
Research, scholarship and innovation 
have a vital role to play in talent development, and we want all who 
conduct, support or encounter 
research in UCD to flourish. We will strengthen and structure the benefits that undergraduate students gain from their education in a research-
intensive environment. Postgraduate 
students and postdoctoral researchers will experience enhanced supports for career 
development. We will further develop 
our training programmes for faculty, research staff and research support staff, based on best international 
practice, to support them in realising 
their ambitions in UCD. 
Excellence in research will remain 
central to our faculty recruitment, 
and our new recruitment schemes will support the growth in our base of outstanding research faculty. We will grow our capacity within the 
area of our strategic themes, and 
we will ensure that our research engages and influences each UCD student and influences our behaviour 
as an organisation. 
Partnerships are key to our ability 
to deliver impact through our 
research, scholarship and innovation. 
We will build strong partnerships with leading universities and other research bodies, with industry 
and with social and community 
organisations, and manage these partnerships in a holistic manner. A two-way conversation engaging the public will bring external insights 
into our research and will bring our 
research to the public in lively and stimulating ways. We will continue to make the case for strong public 
support of research, based on clear 
and compelling articulation of the value and impact of research.
Our research intensity will be 
manifested in all aspects of our operations, and we will be a trusted and valued source of expertise. Our 
structures in support of research 
and innovation will be informed by best international practice. We will enhance the competitiveness of UCD researchers in securing research funding, and in commercialising their 
research outputs where appropriate. 
Our programmes for capturing and conveying research impact will be developed further. We will grow our internal funding schemes in support 
of research, in particular excellent 
research facing funding gaps in the external environment. Through developing our capability in research 
analytics, research performance 
expectations will be set and performance will be measured. 
We will promote awareness of 
UCD research around the world, through our publications, through our engagement with the media, 
and through our participation in and 
hosting of international conferences and meetings. We will also promote the mobility of our researchers and the hosting of researchers from 
partner organisations.
Throughout all our research, 
scholarship and innovation, we will 
reflect our commitment to equality, 
diversity and inclusion, and will adhere to the highest standards of integrity, dignity and respect.
CORE 
OBJECTIVE01
Increase the quality, 
quantity and impact of 
our research, scholarship and innovation.
Structure of wheat leaf surface by Zsolt Váry, UCD 
School of Biology and Environmental Science
UCD Strategy 2020-202422 23
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Core Objective 2
Our students build their ability 
to participate in and contribute to society by studying within an 
academic community and purpose-
built learning environment, combining traditional research methods, specialist skills, and new technologies 
to develop deep subject knowledge. 
UCD students learn at the boundaries 
of human knowledge and observe the frontier of what is not yet discovered by 
undertaking their learning in a research-
intensive environment. We equip our students to explore that frontier by developing and embedding advanced 
teaching and learning practices, assessment 
methods, and sophisticated technologies in the education we offer. CORE 
OBJECTIVE02Provide an inclusive 
educational experience that defines international best practice and prepares our graduates to thrive in present and future societies.
We are a global university with a diverse 
community, and consequently the UCD student 
experience exposes students to new perspectives, deepens their understanding and refines their 
ideas. By providing students with opportunities 
to study for periods abroad and to immerse themselves in other cultures, we enable them to develop the communication and language 
skills necessary to embrace opportunities and 
meet future challenges. By providing more opportunities to learn outside the classroom and to research in industrial and professional 
environments through internships and work 
placements, volunteering opportunities, and cocurricular activities we position students to learn and demonstrate their learning in new 
settings. Through this mainstreaming approach 
– (“University for All”) we recognise, promote and value diversity, foster the spirit of inclusion, appreciate the breadth of talent, experience and contribution of all students, and strive to remove 
the barriers to access, participation and success. 
We will continue to value both depth and 
breadth of learning and the diverse traditions 
of different disciplines. This will be achieved 
by building innovative interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary programmes on the foundations of strong subjects and disciplines, and by using 
the flexibility of our curriculum to enable students 
to specialise at an advanced level within a given area of study or to explore more broadly a range of different subjects. We will ensure that 
assessment is varied, that it reliably measures 
the expected learning outcomes, and that all students receive the feedback necessary to continue learning from assessment activities.
Students will be challenged to encounter the 
questions raised by a world undergoing rapid digital transformation and facing fundamental questions of sustainability, equipping them to lead in responding to these changes and building a healthy and sustainable world. We will also provide opportunities to develop the 
interpersonal, intercultural, and life skills necessary 
for flourishing in an increasingly global and digital society. Through the development of our faculty and staff, and through purpose-built modules and 
specialisms, we will ensure that our four strategic 
themes permeate the educational experience of each student. In this way our graduates will be prepared to take their place in present and 
future societies.
Students will be provided with access to the 
supports they need, at the point they are 
needed and in the most accessible form to 
develop the attributes required to make the most of their university experience. By fostering an institutional culture that promotes inclusiveness, excellent quality and constant improvement, and 
that values teaching and research equally – 
embedding institutional mechanisms that facilitate, recognise, and reward excellent teaching – we will provide structures that enable and promote 
educational enhancement and student success.
In promoting a culture of integrity and excellence 
amongst our students, the University will continue 
to model probity and quality as an institution. We 
will continue to monitor the experience of our students and the outcomes for our graduates, and to seek and react to their feedback. New 
ways to collect, analyse, and present this data 
to best inform institutional decision-making and enhance the quality of the education and student experience will be developed. 
UCD O’Brien 
Centre for Science
UCD Strategy 2020-202424 25
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Core Objective 3
To fulfil our mission of contributing 
to the flourishing of Ireland and 
the world, we will continue to build our engagement at all levels. This 
engagement is important both for 
the impact we have outside the University, but also in ensuring that our students’ learning is informed 
by deep engagement with local and 
global society, and our research is both informed by and relevant to wider society. Over the period of this strategy we will deepen this 
engagement.
We will create a truly global experience 
for our UCD community, ensuring global character is embedded in all aspects 
of institutional activity. Opportunities 
will be provided for staff and students to avail of mobility initiatives, both virtually and physically. This will support 
the development of intercultural 
competencies and enhance capacity to actively contribute in a globally focused world. Through our activities 
we will encourage cultural curiosity and 
sensitivity in our community of students, faculty, staff, alumni and partners. 
We have developed a robust framework 
to identify, develop and manage global partnerships, and through this framework we will select a discrete number of UCD priority partners who will share our 
ambition to deliver impact on UCD’s four 
strategic themes. We will develop new collaborative links and pursue opportunities in transnational education to support and 
expand our global community of learners. UCD will continue its successful programme 
of building holistic major strategic partnerships with industry and other organisations, obtaining mutual benefit 
through engaging in structured ways. 
We will consolidate our existing major partnerships and build further partnerships where there is mutual interest, enabling us 
to maximise our impact on society, and 
augmenting our student experience and researcher engagement. We will link the subject knowledge and expertise of our faculty to the training and development 
needs of our partners in industry, public 
service, and in community organisations with customised educational offerings. 
Our alumni, who are in almost every 
nation of the world, are an important part of our UCD community. Over the term of this strategy, we will further connect 
with, inform, empower and mobilise our 
alumni to become involved in support of the wider University, so that they actively contribute to our growth and development, 
whilst also ensuring they find value and 
relevance in UCD. We will strengthen the links of our University community by matching the ambition of our students with the experience of our alumni by extending 
our mentorship programmes.  
We will implement global best practices in our alumni relations programmes in volunteer management, tailored 
events, digital communication and 
outreach, fundraising opportunities, and by growing the number of alumni chapter networks globally. By engaging 
students in meaningful ways before 
they join the alumni community, we will grow a valuable exchange between alumni and students which will lead to more engaged new alumni and help them with their future success.
We will build on our long and proud 
tradition of staff and students contributing to the needs of society, nationally 
and internationally. We will leverage 
our Employee Volunteering Policy, that allows employees to allocate work time to engage in volunteering, increasing the number staff who engage with our 
community in this way. We will further 
develop our UCD Community Charity Partner model, through which the University provides additional support to 
a specific charity. Through the UCD in 
the Community initiative, we will continue to connect UCD employees and students with the wider community for mutual 
benefit, and in exchange, empowering 
the UCD community as socially aware, global citizens. We will grow the UCD Advantage co-curricular awards scheme 
and ensure it is available to all students. 
We will expand service-based learning and co-curricular learning opportunities, and/or to put their skills and expertise to use in community-based projects.
CORE 
OBJECTIVE03Continue to build 
our engagement locally, nationally and internationally.
UCD Global Lounge
UCD Strategy 2020-202426 27
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Core Objective 4
Excellent performance requires 
excellent people working in a supportive environment, and 
diversity, in all its forms, cultivates 
the development of ideas and often challenges the status quo. 
We will continue to embed the UCD values 
in our community, ensuring that UCD is an attractive place to work, study and 
live. We will employ these values in our 
recruitment practices for both students and employees, increasing the diversity of both cohorts, while extending opportunities 
to participate and retaining a high bar 
for individual excellence. We will provide tailored educational offerings to support lifelong learning for a diverse audience, 
and continue to expand our recruitment  
of international students, along with 
outreach to under-represented groups,  
to further enhance the diversity of the  
student cohort.
Central to our mission and vision is the 
building up of a supportive and inclusive community of students, faculty and staff, 
alumni and diaspora. We will work together to make UCD an attractive, friendly and accessible environment, ensuring both the 
physical and digital campus is welcoming, state-of-the-art, and safe, and that services are responsive to the needs of all those 
who use them. 
We will raise awareness and promote 
greater understanding of and engagement with equality, diversity and inclusion issues 
across our University community through 
implementing and keeping under review our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy and Strategy. We will continue the 
implementation of the Institutional Gender 
Equality Action Plan, and work towards the achievement of an institutional Silver Athena Swan Award before the completion of this 
strategy. Continued actions to eliminate 
gender inequality will result in a growing proportion of women in senior academic and administrative positions. We will continue 
to promote a culture of dignity and respect 
and wellbeing for all, and the elimination of all forms of discrimination. 
We will increase the number of students 
we retain through to graduation by putting in place a comprehensive suite of student support measures and ensuring 
that our student services are world-class. To support the success of all our students, we will integrate student services to ensure 
a consistent level of high-quality student 
support regardless of subject or discipline, location or mode of study, or whether students are being taught or undertaking research. These supports will be bolstered 
by advanced systems using student 
data to target and personalise timely interventions. Building on the specialised supports we provide for students from 
communities experiencing disadvantage, 
students with disabilities, mature students, refugees and asylum seekers, we will also develop new supports for other 
communities where we identify a need. 
CORE 
OBJECTIVE04Attract, retain and 
develop an excellent and diverse cohort of students, faculty and staff.
Healthy UCD faculty 
and staff bootcamp
UCD Strategy 2020-2024
29
 28
Pursuit of our strategic themes and core objectives 
will be facilitated by six key enablers which will provide the foundations for our success. Over the last five years, we have developed plans of varying detail for the future of each of these enablers. During the next five years we will pursue, refine and extend these plans, ensuring that we retain a rolling planning horizon of five years for each enabler. Recruit additional 
excellent faculty members. 
The reduction in exchequer funding to UCD over the 
period of austerity following the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 caused a deterioration in our student-faculty 
ratio from 17.2:1 to 23.2:1. We have since managed to 
reduce this ratio to 20.9:1, but this is still well out of line with OECD norms. 
Over the next five years we intend to recruit sufficient 
faculty to reduce our student-faculty ratio to 16:1. This planned growth in faculty numbers provides us with the opportunity to build our capacity in areas 
of opportunity and need. We will ensure that these 
additional faculty are excellent in both research and teaching, and we will expect them to contribute to the development of the University’s strategic themes. 
Growth in faculty numbers will be achieved through 
two mechanisms. Firstly, we will retain a budget model which increases expenditure in schools as they grow income, ensuring supply of faculty follows demand of 
student numbers. Except in exceptional circumstances, 
additional faculty hired through this mode will be at the early career stage, facilitating our rolling faculty promotion system.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
Secondly, we will continue to centrally  
recruit faculty with three streams: the first  
focusing on excellent early career academics, the second on those with a proven track record of excellence in international arenas, and the third on those working in areas identified as being of high 
potential. We plan to continue this initiative through 
the five years of this strategy.
Applicants in all three streams will be evaluated in 
the same way, and will include the track record and 
potential (research and teaching) of the applicant relative to the UCD Development Framework for Faculty and international norms for the level being sought; the student-faculty ratio in the relevant school relative 
to comparator group norms for the discipline; the 
alignment of the applicant with our strategic themes; and the contribution the employment of the applicant will make to equality, diversity and inclusion goals 
simultaneously at school level and university level.
Over the period of this strategy we aim to employ 
an additional 150 additional academics through the 
first mechanism and 370 academics through the 
second mechanism.ENABLER 01
OUR KEY 
ENABLERSUCD Lochlan Quinn School of Business
Participants at a Study Abroad programme for Chinese partner 
universities, hosted by UCD Global Engagement with UCD 
Innovation Academy and UCD College of Arts and Humanities
Faculty from across disciplines
UCD Strategy 2020-202430 31
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Our Key Enablers
Build world-class 
academic facilities and student amenities. 
We have more students and more employees at UCD 
than ever before. To ensure that our facilities continue to enable the achievement of our vision for 2024, 
and to ensure that we have the facilities in place to 
accommodate the increases in student and employee numbers targeted in the first two of our key enablers, we must plan and implement additional academic 
spaces, sports and student amenities spaces, and 
student accommodation. 
We have developed a Strategic Campus Development 
Plan 2016-2021-2026 which defines three distinct 
character areas: the academic character area (housing our teaching, learning, research and innovation activities); the sports and student amenities 
character area (housing our sports pitches and 
halls, our student centre and our student clubs and societies; and our residential character area (containing our student residences together with retail spaces, dining facilities, meeting rooms and support 
facilities in a ‘village centre’).
We are developing master plans which will guide 
the future development of each of the three areas. 
Over the period of this strategy, these master plans 
will be finalised, and significant progress made towards their realisation. In the academic character area we will deliver UCD 
Future Campus Phase 1 (the UCD Centre for Creativity 
and the UCD Centre for Future Learning); the UCD O’Brien Centre for Science Phase 3; significant enhancements to the Newman Building and the James 
Joyce Library; and planning of a further significant 
academic building to provide the capacity required for our forecast increases in student and employee numbers. 
In the sports and student amenities character area we 
will complete the master planning and deliver a new 
running track, a multi-purpose hall, performance spaces, and re-orientation and re-surfacing of many of our sporting pitches, in partnership with our students. 
In the residential character area we will complete 
Phases 1 and 2 of the residential master plan, providing the Village Centre and approximately 2,200 
additional bed spaces, and we will ensure that Phase 
3, adding a further 800 bed spaces, is well under way.
We will ensure that our campus developments support 
the delivery of a student experience that defines 
international best practice, and that our strategic themes inform the development of an accessible, sustainable, healthy and digitally-enabled campus that also represents international best practice.Increase our student 
population, enhancing quality and diversity.
Demographic projections suggest that the number 
of Irish students coming into third level education will increase significantly over the next 10 years. 
As Ireland’s largest university in terms of full-time 
equivalent student numbers, UCD should prepare to take a share of this increase. 
At the same time, as Ireland’s Global University, we 
are increasingly attractive to international students who wish to receive high quality higher education in an open, welcoming and English-speaking environment. This increased demand for UCD education provides us with an opportunity to grow in size. There are 
a number of reasons why growing in size helps to 
enable the delivery of this strategy. One reason is that we have an opportunity to increase our supply of graduates in areas of high demand, contributing to 
the flourishing of Ireland and the world.
We also recognise the value to all our students 
of learning in a diverse multi-cultural environment where alternative perspectives and ways of working 
can be experienced, and where the intercultural 
competencies necessary to work successfully in our global society can be developed, and so recruiting more students from other countries and non-
traditional groups and communities here in Ireland 
contributes to providing an student experience that defines international best practice.
In addition, larger student numbers allow us to benefit 
from economies of scale, delivering teaching and student support more efficiently and more effectively, and the additional fees provide us with the ability to fund state-
of-the-art teaching and learning infrastructure.
Consequently, we aim to increase our total student 
numbers by 25% over the next 10 years, with this increase being through a blend of national and 
international students. We will focus these increases in 
areas of high student and employer demand.
UCD Library HubUCD Moore Centre for BusinessENABLER 02
ENABLER 03
UCD Strategy 2020-202432 33
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Our Key Enablers
Develop our faculty 
and staff.
In this strategy, we commit to ensuring that four 
strategic themes permeate everything that we do and who we are as a community. This will mean significant 
change for how faculty and staff conduct business 
and contribute. To enable this change, faculty and staff will be supported by training and development opportunities and a collegial culture that values a 
commitment to the University’s strategy. 
We will expand the development opportunities for all 
our employees, creating a culture in which optimum 
performance and development is supported. 
We will continue to embed and refine our ‘Performance for Growth’ framework, ensuring 
that each employee has the opportunity to grow and develop. We will put in place new development programmes to ensure each employee has the 
opportunity to build their knowledge and skills relevant 
to each of our strategic themes, ensuring that these themes permeate the teaching, learning, research and support services we provide.
With routine transactions and queries being handled 
by systems, and staff providing high level support and assistance, there will be greater scope for creativity, strategic and critical thinking, problem solving and 
communications. This will provide opportunities for 
staff to move away from routine tasks towards more exciting and creative roles, and will lead to development and career advancement opportunities 
for staff. 
We will leverage the collective experience and skills 
of our faculty and staff by identifying examples of 
excellence and empowering individuals to share 
their skills and expertise with colleagues and to lead change. Where faculty and staff encounter challenges, we will promote a culture of collegiality and candour and develop feedback mechanisms so that challenges 
can be shared and solutions can be found. Implement advanced 
systems and services to support our operations.
Over the course of the last strategy we implemented 
improvements to our service structures and new IT systems to support the delivery of our mission. 
UCD has established itself as the leader of digital 
transformation in higher education in Ireland. It is our ambition to become an international leader by 2024. This will require us to reassess how students register, to 
recreate how information is captured and accessed, 
and to reimagine how services are best structured to meet the needs of those who use them.
Over the course of this strategy we will develop 
a comprehensive and holistic roadmap for the digital transformation of our operations and an updating and streamlining of our services, and make 
significant progress on the implementation of this 
plan. In this way we will be able to effectively and efficiently respond to the increases in student and faculty numbers projected, together with the planned infrastructure developments. This roadmap will help us plan, change and shape the community and institutional development 
we create through that change. We will 
ensure that UCD becomes a model for digital transformation in a higher education environment in an Irish context and globally. Implementing this 
roadmap will mean significant changes to the 
way we conduct business and deploy staff. 
We will focus on four sections of the UCD community 
– students and their journey, employees and their 
employment, managers and leaders and their routine 
managerial tasks, and academics in the routine tasks which enable their teaching and research.
In each case we will ensure that the appropriate 
digital systems are in place to simplify and reduce the need for staff time to be absorbed in routine tasks, releasing staff to provide higher level support 
and assistance, and to contribute to the four strategic 
themes of this strategy. In this way the experience of all members of the UCD community will be enhanced.
This enabler will contribute significantly to the 
strategic theme of Transforming through Digital Technology, making the campus a model of working in the digital age.
UCD staff and faculty  
at the UCD University ClubUCD Student Desk
ENABLER 04ENABLER 05
UCD Strategy 2020-202434 35
UCD Ireland’s Global University Rising to the Future | Our Key Enablers
Generate additional 
non-exchequer income.
In order to finance our ambitious increase in faculty 
numbers and our infrastructure programme, we will increase the amount of non-exchequer income we 
generate. By the end of the strategy period we will 
be generating an extra €25 million each year in non-exchequer income.
We will develop income generating activities which 
utilise our infrastructure after hours, at weekends and particularly over the summer trimester, increasing the utilisation of our teaching facilities over those periods 
of time and increasing the utilisation of our student 
accommodation over summer. 
We will also build summer school and conference 
activity over summer, and undertake other activities to 
ensure that the accommodation, sporting facilities and associated student amenities are highly utilised and are generating income to support the core operation of the University. We will give priority to activities that 
support the core objectives of the strategy.Through the UCD University Club, we will increase the 
utilisation of O’Reilly Hall and other university venues to provide one of Dublin’s premier meeting and conference facilities, generating further non-exchequer 
income through room hire and catering.
Universities around the world increasingly rely on the 
financial support of their alumni, corporate partners and other philanthropists. UCD is no exception. Over 
the period of this strategy we will work to continue to 
increase the amount of philanthropic support received by the University.
We will explore other opportunities to generate 
a financial return from the assets of UCD, while continuing to support the core operations of the University and uphold our values and our reputation.
Summer at UCDImage by Professor Tasman Crowe, taken while on 
an Environmental Biology field trip to SpainENABLER 06
UCD Ireland’s Global University 36
UCD Strategy 2020-2024Embracing and 
Shaping Change
We live in exciting and challenging times. Through this 
strategy UCD will ‘rise to the future’, treating the challenges of our era as opportunities, re-examining holistically how and what we research, how we prepare our students for their futures and how we behave as an institution.
Uniquely in our history, and as an example 
of leading international best practice, this strategy identifies four strategic themes 
that will permeate every aspect of the 
institution. These themes have been identified through extensive consultation with both internal and external stakeholders 
and provide us with a future orientation 
through which we will contribute to the flourishing of Ireland and the world.Plans for and delivery of our six key enablers are already well advanced, providing us with an excellent foundation 
on which to build. Although no one can 
see the future, through this strategy we will position UCD and our graduates to shape that future and to be successful in it.
UCD Ireland’s Global University 
UCD Strategy 2020-20242
University College Dublin
Belﬁeld, Dublin 4, Ireland.
www.ucd.ie

