IIT DELHI
August 2020Setting the Vision and 
Direction for 2030

MISSION STATEMENT  
OF IIT DELHI
To contribute to India and the world 
through excellence in scientific and 
technical education and research; 
to serve as a valuable resource for 
industry and society; and to remain 
a source of pride for all Indians
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Guiding Principles  
For Execution6Context and Objectives1
Methodology2
The Growth Story So Far 3
Aspirations4
Big moves5
CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVESTHE GROWTH STORY SO FAR
The IIT Delhi Endowment Fund was launched by the Honourable President of India 
in 2019, backed by an initial commitment of INR 250 crore by alumni, with a stated 
goal of raising USD 1 billion over a period of time. 
Subsequently, IIT Delhi initiated the development of its vision and direction for 2030, 
with a focus to build and use the Endowment Fund towards achieving these goals. 
The objectives of this effort were to:The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi has shown strong growth in 
student and faculty strength, while delivering solid academic and research 
output year after year. Furthermore, its alumni are disrupting industries 
across the world with their excellent scientific and technical knowledge, 
and exemplary leadership skills. 
In the last decade, IIT Delhi saw a 55 percent surge in student base and a 
35 percent growth in faculty. In the last five years, it has filed for over 500 
patents, published more than 10,000 research papers and completed 
nearly 350 industry projects.
IIT Delhi’s alumni have also achieved great success in the business world. 
In the last two decades, alumni have launched over 800 start-ups, raising 
over USD 19 billion in funds1 collectively. This has put the institute in the 
league of the world’s top ten undergraduate programs in terms of the 
number of start-ups founded and capital raised by graduates2. Out of 
these start-ups, 12 feature among India’s 31 unicorns3 , with three more 
unicorns in other countries.
As it sets the course for its future aspirations, the institute has identified 
the importance of diversifying its funding sources. Taking a leaf out of the 
book of top global universities that generate 30-35 percent of their income 
from investments and donations, IIT Delhi has launched its Endowment 
Fund, while continuing to focus on increasing industry-linked proceeds.
METHODOLOGY
The methodology for this exercise included:
Consultations with the institute’s 
leadership and facultyInput from donors to the 
Endowment FundResearch on leading global 
technical universitiesFeedback from the institute’s 
students and alumni
• Interviews with Deans and Associate 
Deans of IIT Delhi
• Working sessions with the faculty 
committee led by the Deputy Director 
of Strategy and Planning
• Feedback from the entire 600+ 
member institute faculty and senate• Interviews with founding donors of 
the Endowment Fund
• Interviews with Board Members of the 
Endowment Fund• Case studies of global and Indian 
academic institutions
• Interviews with select officials and 
alumni of these institutes• Interviews with 20+ alumni, ranging 
from recent graduates to graduates 
who passed out over 30 years ago
• Interviews with current undergraduate 
and postgraduate students1 2 3 4Articulate a set of 
aspirations for IIT Delhi for 
the next 10 yearsDefine the initiatives 
required to achieve those 
aspirations by 2030Enable the Endowment 
Fund to meet its goal of 
raising USD 1 billion  
1 Startups by IIT Delhi Alumni, Tracxn, Mar 2020 
2 Comparing against global schools on different metrics based on analysis by Pitchbook, Sep 2019 
3 Which Indian Companies Are Unicorns, Inc42, Oct 2019
ASPIRATIONS
While IIT Delhi already occupies a pre-eminent position among 
universities in India, it has the potential to transform and compete on 
a global scale by further enhancing its research quality, technology 
development and opportunities for commercialization. 
The institute’s approach towards this goal will be anchored around the 
pursuit of all-round excellence, with adequate but not disproportionate 
attention to rankings.
To achieve this transformation, IIT Delhi has set five bold aspirations 
for 2030, in consultation with the IIT Delhi administration, faculty, 
alumni and the Endowment Fund’s contributors.
1. Drive research excellence
IIT Delhi will provide faculty with the resources and facilitation they need—
including grants, infrastructure and staff—so they can perform to their 
maximum potential across their focus areas. 
The institute will aim to maintain a healthy balance between different types 
of research. While there will be focused efforts on exploring technology 
development and commercialization of applied research, IIT Delhi will 
continue to support fundamental research, which could have long gestation 
period for its impact to be acknowledged by industry and society.
2. Enhance educational experience and employability
IIT Delhi will provide its students with modern learning and research 
experience. The curriculum will reflect latest and future requirements of 
industry. A renewed emphasis will be placed on the overall development 
of students to provide them with the skills to compete in a dynamically 
changing world. The institute’s method of instruction will adapt to 
technological innovation in pedagogy, while building capabilities to deliver 
education online at scale. 
An additional thrust will also be placed on students’ overall well-being  
and health.3. Attain global competitiveness in select technology areas
By 2030, IIT Delhi will become synonymous with leadership in some  
key technology areas of the future, emerging as a global partner of choice 
for industry. The institute will do this by building a healthy pipeline of 
licensing agreements, jointly developed teaching programs and sponsored 
projects with industry in those technology areas.
4. Sustain global leadership in entrepreneurship
IIT Delhi will become the preferred destination for aspiring entrepreneurs  
in India and neighbouring countries by nurturing a start-up culture  
among students and faculty, and bridging the gap between research  
and entrepreneurship. 
The institute will also make a concerted effort to offer partnership 
opportunities to alumni embarking on their entrepreneurship journey by 
providing relevant support services and connections.
5. Contribute to society and the country
IIT Delhi will continue investing in research areas of social and national 
importance such as rural development, while exploring other potential  
areas of focus. 
The institute will encourage students to continue their on-ground 
collaboration with external partners who are committed to furthering 
relevant social causes (e.g., leading NGOs) to maintain a culture of giving 
back to society.
BIG MOVES
IIT Delhi has identified five big moves  
that will help it achieve its aspirations
1. Strengthen teaching and research  
• Incorporate a demand-driven approach to the curriculum through 
structured feedback from students, surveys with industry experts, and 
consideration of national priorities
• Increase focus on leadership skills with emphasis on ethics and social 
responsibility, team work, and navigating uncertainty
• Create structured language and communications courses that can 
be taken as a non-evaluative track over multiple years, giving students 
adequate practice, with cohorts created in a need-based manner 
according to the level of support required for different students
• Focus on overall well being of students by ensuring high quality of 
services in hostels and adequate focus on mental health, among others
• Leverage technology to build online programs in partnership with top 
global universities, giving students exposure to global faculty and cutting 
edge research
• Create options for research-focused faculty to balance teaching 
commitments and vice versa, providing flexibility to individual faculty 
• Enable departments to hire flexibly (e.g., joint positions with private 
sector, joint positions with global universities) to build expertise in new 
areas in a more agile manner
• Upgrade institute infrastructure in holistic and capex efficient manner, 
covering both basic (e.g. hostels, offices) and technical infrastructure (e.g. 
laboratories, digital classrooms)
• Simplify administrative processes for faculty and invest in building 
a cadre of administrative support staff to free-up faculty time for core 
teaching, research and technology development
2. Invest in technology leadership in select areas  
• Set up a cross-functional advisory board with global leaders and the 
institute’s administration and faculty to help steer this initiative, including 
support on selection of topics, grant decisions, etc.
• Institute competitive processes to select focus topics and allocate 
project funding, which include consideration of market demands, social 
needs, and national priorities
• Create faculty chairs and special grants linked to technology 
development, commercialization and entrepreneurship
• Develop global industry relationships in selected technology areas with 
a focus on R&D partnerships
• Update teaching programs and curriculum in line with selected topics
GUIDING PRINCIPLES  
FOR EXECUTION
This is not a vision “for” IIT Delhi but rather a vision 
“of” IIT Delhi. Every member of the IIT community is a 
stakeholder in the institute’s future and a contributor to 
the journey. In this direction:
• Students and faculty will be encouraged to dream big and 
to actively start thinking about the role they can play in 
taking IIT Delhi to new heights
• There will be a bottom-up ownership model towards 
the vision by empowering stakeholders to formulate an 
execution plan (for example, the institute will conduct 
department-wise vision planning and proposal-based 
selection of focus technology areas, among others)
• Execution across big moves will balance IIT Delhi’s 
commitment towards its core mission, while strengthening 
institutional health across quality of faculty, students  
and finances
• The institute will aim to effectively execute the ideas in a 
time-bound manner, with clear allocation of responsibilities 
and appropriate performance management systems
• The execution framework will be supported by a 
governance structure with adequate representation from 
institute administration, faculty, students, the Endowment 
Fund team and the alumni
With the vision for 2030 in place, IIT Delhi is on the road to its 
next phase of growth. The successful achievement of its vision 
will positively impact the lives of students, alumni and faculty, 
while shaping the progress of our nation for decades to come.3. Revamp industry engagement
• Engage with leading industry professionals in a variety of ways to 
develop a globally competitive innovation ecosystem in India
• Create learning programs for professionals in the industry, such as 
online courses, part time programs, certifications, etc.
• Invest in developing professional industry outreach team, with focus on 
global outreach
• Partner with leading NGOs and social enterprises through a student led 
approach, including volunteer programs, internships, and social sector 
research projects
4. Set up a world-class entrepreneurship centre for 
alumni, students, and faculty
• Increase engagement of institute with start-up ecosystem and expand 
networking and mentorship opportunities for students through regular 
guest lectures by successful alumni
• Streamline course offerings across various academic units in 
the institute, as well as from external sources, to deliver end-to-
end training on entrepreneurship, i.e., from prototyping to product 
development, running operations to fundraising
• Enable tighter linkages between research, technology development, 
and commercialization, through startups by faculty and students
• Create a one-stop shop for entrepreneurs in India and neighbouring 
countries by providing access to resources (e.g.,  workspaces, cloud 
storage, processing power), mentorship from faculty and alumni, connect 
with funders, etc. 
• Build focused outreach mechanisms to invite alumni to partner with IIT 
Delhi in launching their start-up
• Create a competitive model for equity stakes in incubated start-ups to 
diversify income sources in the long run
5. Build strong alumni engagement team
• Create a renewed experience for alumni, keeping them connected with 
institute and updated on latest developments
• Treat alumni engagement as ongoing strategic activity, with a single 
channel of communication for all touchpoints with alumni
• Provide transparent and accessible information on institute finances to 
alumni to drive meaningful engagement
http://www.iitd.ac.in/
https://twitter.com/iitdelhi/
https://www.linkedin.com/school/iitdelhi/
https://www.facebook.com/iitdelhi/
