 
  SP  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Plan  
2021 -2025  
Universidad de los Andes, 2021  
 SP W ork team  
The preparation of the  SP was led by the 
University President , Alejandro Gaviria, in 
collaboration with Raquel Bernal ( Academic 
Vice-president ), Silvia Restrepo ( Vice-president  
for Research and Creation),  
Eduardo Behrentz ( Administrative and 
Financial Vice-president ), María Teresa Tobón 
(General Secretary) and Carlos Castellanos 
(Director of Planning and Evaluation).  
The work teams of each Vice President 's Office 
supported the process of creating the initiatives 
included in this  SP 
• Office  of Admissions and Registration  
• Dean of Students  
• Office  of Library Systems  
• Office  of Continuing Education  
• Academic Management Office  
• Ethics Center  
• Conecta -TE  
• Internationalization Department  
• Human Resources and Organizational Development  
• Doctorate Coordination  
• Innovation, Transfer and 
Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Office  
• Project Office  
• Ediciones Uniandes and Coordination 
of Uniandes Magazines  
• Agrosistemas Initiative  
• Administrative Coordination of the 
Office of the Vice -president for  Research 
and Creation  
• Information Coordination of the Office of 
the Vice -president  for Research and 
Creation  
• Financial Management  Office  
 
We are also grateful for the valuable comments of 
the members of the Academic Council, the Steering 
Committee, the Superior Council, t he faculties and 
administrative units, students and alumni, which 
significantly enriched this collective construction.  
 
Graphic concept: Positioning Direction  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be 
reproduced  in any form or by any means, electronic or 
mechanical, without written permission from the 
author.  
 
Universidad de los Andes - Recognition as a University: 
Decree 1297 of May 30, 1964 - Recognition as a legal 
entity: Resolution 28 of February 23, 1949 Min justicia.  
 SP - 2021 -2025   3      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Content s 
Introduction ……………….. 4 
Context……………………. 6 
Dreams and pillars  ...............  12 
Main strategies  
and initiatives  .......................  14 
Cross-cutting  Initiatives and tasks  
……………………………. ..43 
Financia l and administrative  
Framework………………… 52 
Annex  ................................ ..... 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

SP - 2021 -2025  4  
  
 
 
 
Introduction1 
During its seventy years of existence, the Universidad 
de los Andes has had a significant impact on Colombian 
society. This has been possible, among others, because 
of two factors that have remained unchanged. One, 
fidelity to founding principles: excellen ce, 
comprehensive education and a shared commitment to 
go beyond "what the law obliges us to do" or "beyond 
the call of duty". Another is the creation of an academic 
tradition, of an intergenerational commitment of 
professors, researchers and creators, of a cohesive and 
committed community.  
The topics and sectors in which the University has 
played an important role are diverse, ranging from a 
pioneering role in the arrival of the Internet in Colombia 
and the discovery of Ciudad Perdida  to innovation in 
the plastic arts, economic development studies, 
constitutional law, seismic engineering, mathematical 
logic and the concept of administration beyond the 
scope of business. To mention just a few.  
This Strategic Plan (SP) is framed within t he founding 
principles of Uniandes and its academic tradition. It 
fully recognizes this legacy  
 
 
 
1 In this document we will use "professor" or "professors" to refer to teachers  and 
professors to make it easier to read. The same treatment will be given  to students, 
directors and administrative employees . 
                                                      
 

Introduction   
 PDI - 2021 -20255   
 
and tries to adapt it to new challenges . It is an 
incremental Strategic Plan  and not a foundational one . 
This  SP is also framed in a changing context, defined 
by the climate crisis and technological, cultural and 
demographic changes in the world and in Colombia. 
Nevertheless, it attempts to set out a clear vision and 
identify a set of priority initiatives and strategies. It 
establishes the overriding objectives, identifies actions 
for their fulfillment and determines some concrete 
targets for follow -up. 
An SP is not just a management tool. It serves , of 
course, to establish some priority initiatives and specific 
goals and to ensure some consistency in decision -making 
and accountability. But more than that, the SP is an 
invitation for reflection on the future, on the social impact 
of our University and on the relevance (in a country 
burdened by problems of the past and present) of our 
daily work. It is also an invitation to our academic 
community to contribute according to its strengths and 
preferences, to commit to sustainability a nd innovation, 
and to be fully aware that the great challenges we face, 
both internal and external, require the participation of all.  

SP - 2021 -2025  6  
  
 
 
 
Context  
The Strategic Plan  2021 -2025 of the Universidad de los 
Andes defines a vision of the future: a series of 
overriding dreams or objectives, as well as a set of 
initiatives, reforms, investments and concrete goals. It 
sets out a shared medium -term vision and proposes a 
strateg y to carry it out. It is a general guide for decision 
making. It is not a compilation of everything the 
University does or should do.  Nor is it an exhaustive 
list of possible or desirable actions for each academic 
unit.  
This  SP is set at an exceptional juncture , at a time 
characterized not only by the covid -19 pandemic , but 
also by a series of long -term environmental, 
technological, social , political and demographic 
changes . The SP 2021 -2025 responds to this situation. 
It proposes a general strategy for adaptation and the 
search for opportunities. It is inspired by a kind of 
transformative optimism: universities will have to 
change, but their role in society will continue to be 
fundamental.  
Global context  
The global context is dominated, first and foremost, by 
the challenge of sustainability, by the problems  of 

Context  
Graph 1. Growth of massive Internet education courses in the world . 
SP - 2021 -2025  7  
 
 
overlapping climate crisis and 
biodiversity loss. Any attempt at 
strategic planning should start from the 
Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs ), 
which, taken together, plan the need to 
reconcile social development, material 
progress  and environmental 
sustainability. This task is not only 
urgent, but also  practically a matter of 
survival. The global context is also 
characterized by technological 
disruption and cultural changes, 
including the erosion of public debate 
and the crisis of confidence in democrati c 
institutions.  In terms of technological changes, 
four trends together impose the need for 
change: (1) the democratization of 
information and content; (2) the entry of 
new players (see Figure 1) and the 
globalization of audiences; (3) 
robotization and th e change in labor 
markets; and (4) the globalization of the 
information society  advances in 
neuroscience and new learning theories. 
Universities have to adapt to a 
different, more globalized, more 
impatient and demanding reality. 
Universities have to be come more 
connected (literally and 
metaphorically).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  8  
  
External changes are not only 
technological. The erosion of trust in 
traditional institutions, illiberal 
tendencies (e. g., the culture of 
cancellation has taken hold in many 
universities) and the rejection of elites 
(including scientific and academic 
elites ) simultaneously impose new 
challenges. Universities must not only 
respond to the new realities of the labor 
markets, but also to these cultural 
changes. They must c ombine job 
training with critical thinking. 
Ignorance of the demands of the labor 
markets would jeopardize their viability. 
To adopt a merely instrumental vision 
of education would be, on the other 
hand, to renounce one of its 
fundamental democratic functi ons.  
Universities face diverse demands 
from their different audiences. Some 
demand specific training that will 
enable them to enter the labor market. 
Others, among them students in the 
middle of their careers, aspire to a more 
general space for reflection, to contact 
with knowledge for knowledge 's sake. In 
both cases, ethical reflection is 
fundamental. Universities must lead the 
conversation on the normative bases of 
social change. The climate crisis, the 
rise of inequality , the discussion on 
gender equity and the omnipresence of 
artificial intelligence make this ethical 
conver sation almost an imperative.  Local context  
At the national level, there are several  
additional factors that also require 
internal reforms, which reinforce the 
need for change. Among them is the 
decline in demand for certain higher 
education programs, because of  
demographic (smaller cohorts) and 
socioeconomic (lower returns to 
education) changes. This factor is 
compounded by the growing 
importance (for private universities) of 
some public programs, such as Ser Pilo 
Paga, Generación E and Icetex loans. 
All in all, the local financial context is 
one of greater tightness and competition.  
Two other factors, not circumstantial 
but rather structural, affect the main 
Colombian universities: the meager 
public budgets for research in science 
and technology and the lack of interest of 
a large part of the private sector in this 
regard. The need to lea d a collective 
awareness of the importance of research 
and creation in society is still a pending 
task. Increasing the impact (and 
relevance) of Colombian universities 
must be a priority in this regard.  
In the immediate context of the 
Universidad de los Andes, the SP 2021 -
2025 will have to deal with three 
overlapping problems. The first is the 
exhaustion of a funding model. For two 
decades, the expansion of the 
University, of its  infrastructure and its 
faculty,  

Context  
Graph 2. Financial results of the  Universidad de los Andes, 1995 -2021 
SP - 2021 -2025  9  
  
was  underpinned by enrollment 
growth in real terms. Enrollments 
doubled between 2000 and 2018. 
Further increases do not seem 
feasible in the years to come. The 
exhaustion of the model implies that 
the University currently faces an 
operational deficit that mus t be 
corrected (see Graph  2). 
The second problem involves the 
need to modify the investment plan . The 
emphasis on physical infrastructure 
no longer seems necessary. Digital 
transformation is now a priority. In 
recent years, infrastructure growth has 
occurred in spite of stagnation in the 
number of students. Going forward, this almost 
contradictory fact must change . The SP 
2021 -2025 defines the general 
guidelines for this change, as well as the 
new priority investment projects.  
Lastly, welfare and convivence 
have acquired, for the better, a greater 
importance, a centrality that they did not 
have before. In this regard, the Uniandes 
community , as is the case in much of the 
world, is more demanding, more aware 
of its rights and more demanding in 
terms of participation.  Harassment, 
mistreatment, discrimination and 
gender violence need a timely and 
legitimate institutional response. The 
welfare of all , students , professors and  
 

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  10  
  
teaching staff  must be conceived as welfare 
communities .  The SP 2021 -2025 is also 
based on this new reality.  
 
Structure of the  SP  
2021 -2025  
The structure of this SP is  simple . The first 
part is general. It begins with three dreams, 
three general ideas that together define the 
medium -term vision of the University. Each 
dream, in turn, is divided into three pillars, 
into general objectives that advance in the 
direction of the con cretion and lay the 
foundations for the proposed reforms and 
the different initiatives proposed. In total, 
there are nine pillars, three for each of the 
three dreams.  
The second part of the plan is a list of 
initiatives. These are classified by pillar, i.e., 
according to their contribution to each of 
the pillars described in the first part. Some 
of the initiatives appear several times, as 
they contribute to the fulfillment of several 
pillars simultaneously. Other initiatives are 
more cross -cutting,  and it would not make 
sense to classify them under one pillar or 
another.  
In the third part of the plan, five cross -
cutting initiatives involving various areas 
of the university are described. These 
include some of the most ambitious and 
transformative actions proposed in this SP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The initiatives listed are not necessarily 
new  or different tasks. Some are reiterations 
of what has already been done.  Others are 
adjustments identified in previous strategic 
planning  exercises. Others are simply 
integrative tasks, efforts to bring together and 
give greater coherence to dispersed 
activities. Some others involve giving up, 
stopping doing certain things. For example, 
the new emphasis on virtual master's 
degrees could imply the transformation or 
closure of some graduate programs.  
The last part of the  SP establishes the 
financial framework. It presents the 
medium -term projections, conditional on the 
implementation of the initiatives and the 
fulfillment of the objectives. The projections 
also consider  the main investments 
proposed. The financial framework gives 
coherence t o the plan, puts the goals in a 
unified framework and reveals some of the 
future risks.  
The proposed targets and monitoring 
indicators are presented in the annex. These 
will make it possible to monitor the 
progress of th e SP  every six months . The 
indicators may be adjusted, supplemented 
with additional indicators , qualitative 
information and other complementary data 
that the faculties and administrative units 
may wish to include in the follow -up. The 
Planning Office  will be in charge of this task. 
This report on performance indicators will 
be complemented with the monitoring of 
financial results. The intention is to be able 
to generate six -monthly progress reports 
that will enable adjustments and 
improvement actions t o be taken in a 
timely manner during the period of the 
program  execution of this SP. 

Context   
 
 
The principles of this document will 
serve as the basis for the construction of 
Faculty Strategic P lans (FSP ), which will 
accompany the implementation of this 
institutional strategy according to the 
specificities of each discipline and unit . 
The FSPs  will be the result of 
collaborative work within the units over 
the next few months. The incorporation 
of the community in this process is 
fundamental . The FSPs  should also 
propose indicators and strategies for 
continuous monitoring.  The structure of this document, it can 
be said , goes from poetry to prose. It 
begins with dreams. It ties them together 
in pillars. It concretizes them into cross -
cutting initiatives and tasks. It translates 
them into several  milestones that are 
incorporated together in a financial 
framework. Dreams a re our vision. 
Initiatives and tasks are a guide to action. 
The financial framework is a coherence 
exercise that incorporates the budgetary 
constraints and financial implications of 
the proposals.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SP - 2021 -2025      11  

12 SP - 2021 -2025   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dreams and pillars  
Dream 1: A university that transforms 
lives and contributes, in this way, to  
the transformation of society  
Pillars  
1.1. The University promotes social mobility, 
contributes to the appropriate labor market 
insertion of its students and facilitates 
entrepreneurship.  
1.2. The University promotes critical thinking, 
ethical reflection and environmental and social 
awareness.  
1.3. The University promotes lifelong  learning and 
the ability to adap t to changing and uncertain 
environments.  

 
SP - 2021 -2025  13 Dreams and 
pillars   
  
Dream 2: A university that 
promotes the wellbeing of all its 
members, pluralism, social justice 
and gender equity and diversity  
Pillars  
2.1. The University promotes, in its 
internal affairs , a participative, supportive 
and transparent decision -making process.  
2.2. The University promotes an 
environment respectful of diversity, 
different life experiences and different 
views of society.  
2.3. The University promotes the mental 
and physical health and well -being of 
students, faculty and administrative 
workers.  
 
Dream 3: A university that works to 
achieve a significant impact on 
knowledge generation, sustainability, 
democratic debate, reform proposals 
and the construction of hopeful and 
inclusive narratives  
Pillars  
3.1. The University works to achieve 
measurable and sustainable impacts on its 
immediate environment.  
3.2. The University works to achieve 
measurable and significant impacts on 
the generation of knowledge and artistic 
creation.  
3.3. The University cooperates with other 
actors, in and outside academia, to 
influence democratic debate, 
sustainability, the reform agenda and the 
construction of hopeful and inclusive 
narratives.  

14 SP - 2021 -2025   
    
 
 
Main strategies and 
initiatives  
Dream 1: A university that transforms 
lives and contributes, in this way, to  
the transformation of society  
Pillar 1.1.  
The University promotes social mobility , contributes to 
the appropriate labor market insertion of its students 
and facilitates entrepreneurship.  
Experiences of educational transformation at the undergraduate level  
 
It is unlikely that university education will return to the 
way it was before the pandemic. Future learning models 
will require an integration between the virtual and face -
to-face models. For the Universidad de los Andes, face -
to-face interaction with peer s and professors is 
fundamental. Physical presence on campus will 
continue to be a primary feature of undergraduate 
education. However, it is important to find a balance 
between face -to-face and virtuality that considers  the 
objectives and needs of student s throughout their life 
cycle and the specificities of our context.  
Based on the lessons learned during the last year 
and a half of virtuality, this initiative proposes , for the 
undergraduate level, the need to experiment with 
different hybrid and flexible  models that maximize  

Main strategies and initiatives  
  
SP - 2021 -2025  15  
 
 
the benefit of the different learning 
environments. On the one hand, the 
face -to-face model will strengthen 
interpersonal, socioemotional and 
citizenship skills , communication and 
debate skills, and disciplinary skills 
that require practice in specialized 
environments such as workshops, 
laboratories and field work. On the 
other hand, the virtual model will 
make it possible to gain flexibility and 
agility, take advantage of 
technological tools (and the 
numerous digital educational 
resources available) in order to create 
more personalized learning 
environments and promote student  
autonomy.  
It will be a priority to guarantee 
acade mic excellence in the new 
educational modes that will prevail in the 
future. To this end, the University will 
continue to promote faculty development 
aimed at generating competencies for 
virtual teaching. With this objective, 
pedagogical support will be 
indispensable, for example, the use of 
Neon Block, which allows detailed 
monitoring of student learning. The 
redesign and new equipment of some of 
the campus classrooms will also be 
necessary to make better use of the hybrid 
models.  
 
As part of thi s initiative, the 
following actions will be carried out:  
• Several pilots of hybrid and 
virtual introductory courses in 
the Social Sciences, Science and 
Writing, in particular with the  objective of assessing if the flexibility 
can be useful in facilitating the 
transition from school to university 
and from the regions to Bogotá.  
• Strengthening the pedagogical 
component and ICT-Based  
educational innovation . That is, (1) 
improving learning experiences 
leveraging technology in 
undergraduate courses , which 
implies prioritizing some aspects of 
curricular reform (such as 
integrative courses and project 
courses), in addition to the 
institutional strategy of authentic 
learning assessment; and (2) 
improving learning experiences by 
taking advantage of virtual and 
augmented reality, immersive 
worlds and adaptive learning.  
• The use of artificial intelligence to 
enrich the learning experience to 
improve student success, personalize 
learning paths and address academic 
and personal risks in  a more effective 
and timely manner.  
• The growth of virtual offerings. For 
example, 90% of the undergraduate 
courses offered during the inter -
semester period will be virtual. This 
will ensure flexibility for students 
who do not want to or cannot be in 
Bogotá, who want to do internships 
or who have other complementary 
activities. At the same time, a set of  
significant number of courses  that 
can be homologated  of the core 
programs (such as   

 
  

Main strategies and initiatives  
SP - 2021 -2025  17  
 
 
vocational  seminars with recognized 
national and international experts 
through continuing education) will 
be 100% virtual, so that high school 
seniors can have greater clarity about 
their career choice and take 
advantage of some of these courses as 
undergraduate cre dits.  
• The expansion of collaboration with 
our international partners for the 
creation of pre -homologated credit 
bags, which undergraduate students 
can take at any of the universities 
with which we have the virtual 
academic mobility program (VMP ). 
• The design of at least two 
interdisciplinary undergraduate 
programs in hybrid modality. For 
example, a Biodesign program that 
includes the Faculty of Science and 
the Department of Design, or 
programs in Financial Mathematics , 
Statistics and Computer Scienc e, 
Development, Environmental 
Policy and Economics , or 
Neurosciences and Human 
Behavior. The experimentation will 
make it possible to assess the 
feasibility of extending hybrid 
interdisciplinary undergraduate 
programs in the future.  
New admissions scheme, partial 
scholarships and differential fees  
Between 2016 and 2020, the total 
student population (including 
undergraduate and graduate) declined 
from 19 ,700 to 18 ,500. This drop is due 
to several factors:  The f aster graduation of students from 
the Ser Pilo  Paga program, the reduction 
of Ser Pilo Paga and the transition to the 
Generation E program, demographic 
changes and the reduced 
competitiveness of some programs. The 
drop has occurred despite the fact that 
the rate of admitted students in relation 
to enr olled students has increased 
significantly, as a consequence of the 
reduction of thresholds of the Saber 11 
test and the stabilization of tuition prices 
as of the second semester of 2019.  
During the same period , the 
University' s capacity has been 
maintained, or increased, including 
investment in infrastructure, faculty 
recruitment and investment in 
technology. Taken together, these facts 
mean that the University has sufficient 
capacity to serve at least the same 
number of students as in 2016. This 
initiative aims to increase the number 
of undergraduate students through 
two main actions: increasing the 
number of those admitted to the most 
dynamic programs and offering partial 
scholarships ( tuition discounts ), duly 
targeted (see section "Fi nancial and 
administrative framework"). Targeting 
should consider  the objective of 
reducing socioeconomic and gender 
gaps. In addition, it is vitally important 
to rethink, reformulate and optimize 
admission processes and criteria , with a 
view to making the m more agile and 
competitive, and to update and 
strengthen scouting efforts.  

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  18  
  
Expansion of postgraduate degree offerings 
(more relevant and flexible)  
This initiative contemplates the 
creation and implementatio n of a 
flexible and modular offer of virtual 
and hybrid graduate programs that 
respond to the current needs of the 
labor market. The initiative seeks to 
reach students (in regions of Colombia 
and Latin America) for whom face -to-
face education is not an alt ernative. It 
also seeks to respond to the need for 
continuous improvement of 
competencies throughout life, in a 
modular and flexible manner. For this 
reason, this strategy will be closely 
articulated with the flexible and 
relevant  continuing education initiative 
of Pillar 1.3, in the sense of defining 
flexible learning routes between formal 
programs and modular continuing 
education by competencies, which 
offers homologous micro -credentials. 
In these new programs, it will be 
essenti al to guarantee academic 
excellence through explicit quality 
differentiation, including the 
involvement of highly qualified 
professors, the strengthening of 
international alliances,  program 
contextualization according to local and 
regional realities , the articulation of 
teaching and research, the promotion of 
student -centered teaching and learning 
modes , and the modular and flexible 
offer with multiple training paths.  Program design will be based on 
the evidence available at any given time 
on the most pressing needs in the labor 
markets. The programs will be medium 
and large scale (between one hundred 
and three hundred students per year), 
with quality differentiators that will 
include a student -centered model and 
active methodologies that promote 
learning, incorporate high quality 
educational resources, as well as 
competency -based curricula, flexible 
models and multiple training paths. The 
learning process will incorporate data 
analytics and will be connected to our 
research and to the p roblems of our own 
context, in alliance with international 
partners. These characteristics also aim 
to contribute to the reduction of 
socioeconomic, gender and regional 
gaps.  
The virtual and hybrid postgraduate 
program will also provide an 
opportunity to broaden the scope of our 
contribution to the understanding and 
solution of relevant national and global 
challenges , such as the climate crisis, 
sustainable development, the 
strengthening of democracy, new 
technologies, inequality, emotional 
well -being, gender inequality and 
violence, among others.  
By 2025, Universidad de los Andes 
should be the leader in Latin America in 
virtual and hybrid postgraduate and 
continuing education in Spanish.  

Main strategies and initiatives   
  
 
 
Alliance  Duoc UC  for 
technological education  
A feasibility study is currently 
underway to establish an alliance with 
the Duoc UC professional institute of the 
Universidad Católica de  Chile, in order 
to establish it with a local partner, 
which could be a pension fund or a 
technological education and 
competency accreditation institution. 
This alliance could have a substantial 
impact. Several studies in Colombia 
and around the world have  shown a 
notable impact of this type of education 
on social mobility. The impact could be 
increased via the use of information 
and communication technologies. The 
new institute would be a project 
external to the University, would be 
staffed by professors other than regular 
professors, and would serve a different 
audience. The proposed model will 
develop its own training modules for 
instructors, who will be mainly 
practitioners . The University and the 
technology education institute would 
be connected  through learning 
exchanges between the two models of 
formal education, but with different 
objectives and populations.  
This initiative would not necessarily 
contribute directly to income 
diversification. However, it would 
strengthen our relationship with  the 
private sector , allow for a more accurate 
understanding of market trends, and 
provide us with a better understanding 
of the  
 
SP - 2021 -2025      19  

Universidad de los Andes  
  
SP - 2021 -2025  20  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
job market , would be a source 
of consultancies and studies, 
and would respond to the idea 
(persistent in our history) that 
the University should enter the 
community college market. This 
strategy is included con tingent 
upon  the results of the feasibility 
studies. The expectation is to 
have about 1,500 students 
during the first three years of the 
program.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New marketing strategies and 
program positioning (partial 
centralization)  
In order to promote the growth of 
undergraduate programs and virtual and 
hybrid graduate programs, a marketing and 
positioning strategy will be developed in 
coordination with the faculties. The marketing 
and positioning initiatives will be strategically 
articulated through the single student 
information  system . See the  section 
“Strategies  of  internal and external 

Main strategies and initiatives   
  
communication  and external relations"), 
which will allow us to follow them from 
the time they are just prospects until they 
become graduates of a program. The 
strategy will also be accompanied by 
collaborative work with partners with 
more experience in online education . 
Implementation of the curricular reform  
 
This implementation process will deepen 
competency -based learning, learning 
assessment, innovation in teaching 
practice and continuous program 
improvement. Accordingly , professors 
will require support in the 
implementation of their courses and 
the monitoring and evaluation of the 
programs. This initiative will be 
articulated with the overall strategy to 
support the teaching career. In the next 
five years, the Universida d de los Andes 
must consolidate the implementation of 
the curricular reform and the transition 
from non -reformed to reformed 
programs. The reform emphasized 
competency training , active learning 
and the development of student 
autonomy, as well as the mitiga tion of 
academic overload.  
This initiative includes, of course, the 
consolidation of the reform of the Ciclo 
Básico Uniandino  (CBU) , which 
strengthened the concept of 
competencies in the design and 
implementation of the courses, 
structured the courses arou nd three 
areas (scientific thought, culture , arts 
and humanities, and Colombia) and 
proposed greater flexibility in the  choice of courses for students. The 
reform included a mandatory course on 
Colombia, with emphasis on the 
country's history, analysis of  inequalities 
and development challenges. The  CBU  is 
essential to increase understanding of 
the most pressing problems of our 
society from a socio -humanistic 
perspective.  
Evaluation of learning outcomes and 
quality assurance  
This initiative responds, in part, to a 
regulatory mandate. Decree 1330 of 
2019 of the Ministry of National 
Education and Agreement 02 of 2020 of 
the National Council of Higher 
Education require the implementation 
of a learning assessment system and the 
definition of the guidelines of the 
quality assurance system.  
Qualified registrations and 
accreditations of educational programs 
and institutions were typically based 
on the quality of the inputs. As of 
Agreement 02, it is essential to account 
not only fo r the inputs, but also for the 
learning outcomes and the promises of 
value declared by each academic 
program according to the profile of the 
graduates. In response to this challenge, 
the University will implement the 
evaluation system for transversal 
compe tencies (including critical 
thinking, ethics, communication skills 
and collaborative work). For their part, 
the faculties and centers will oversee  
the evaluation of disciplinary 
competencies within their respective 
curricula.  
 
 
SP - 2021 -2025    21  

Universidad de los Andes   
  
The evaluation of learning carried 
out by professors must account for the 
contribution that each of the courses 
makes to the disciplinary and cross -
cutting  competencies. This information 
feeds the formative evaluation 
component of the educational programs 
within the quality assurance system and 
strengthens the University's culture of 
continuous improvement.  
Institutional authentic learning assessment 
initia tive 
The University implemented several 
changes to the grading system in 
response to the pandemic. These 
changes were intended to mitigate the 
difficulties faced by students 
(connectivity problems, lack of 
appropriate technological resources at 
home, pos sibility of contagion and anxiety 
associated with the pandemic). In the 
first semester of 2020, a qualitative 
grading system with pass/fail courses 
was implemented.   
Subsequently, during the second 
semester of the same year, the 
quantitative grade was reinstated and 
the policy of course withdrawals was 
implemented until the end of the 
semester, even after receiving the final 
grade for the course.  
These adjustments have sparked 
an institutional discussion around 
authentic learning assessment, the 
flexibl e learning process, and motivation 
to learn beyond the grade. Based on 
these lessons, the grading system and 
assessment of learning objectives will 
be adjusted so that students can learn 
more flexibly, take risks without fear of 
making mistakes, study genuinely out of 
interest in knowledge, and reduce 
stress and anxiety levels.  
Review and strengthening of student 
support for professional life.  
The 2019 student wellness survey 
revealed that one of the highest  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Main strategies and initiatives   
  
students' fears is associated with the 
uncertainty generated by job placement 
at the time of graduation. Through 
the Career Path Center  (CPC ) of the 
Dean of Students  (DECA ), the 
university will implement an integrated 
student support plan for professional 
life. The plan will include an integrated 
offer of support related to job search, 
work life, entrepreneurship, 
management skills and career 
management, and networking. The 
plan will also include strengthening the 
map of allies in the publi c, private and 
third sectors , with an emphasis on our 
alumni network, in order to consolidate 
an ecosystem of employability and 
entrepreneurship.  
Strengthening of 
doctoral programs  
Doctoral programs are key to 
strengthening research and broadening 
the impact of the University. Funding 
challenges, which have been a constant 
concern, have been exacerbated in recent 
years by changes in public policy. In a 
more difficult context, the University will 
seek to strengthen the doctorates in a 
number of ways, including: (1) the 
implementation of a series of dialogues 
with the community, in order to establish 
the strategic plan for the doctorates with 
emphasis  on curricular issues, university 
life and assets, transversal competencies 
and financing; (2) the increase of double 
degree programs; (3) the expansion of the 
portfolio of transversal competencies 
(ethics, search for financing, 
pedagogical tools, etc.) with 
competencies in intellectual property, 
technology transfer strategies, and public 
and private entrepreneurship; and (4) the 
search for new sources of financing, 
particularly donations and international 
cooperation. Students will be part of the 
resource search strategies.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Universidad de los Andes   
  
 
 
Virtual academic mobility program  (VmP)  
with partner universities and networks  
Virtual academic mobility aims to 
connect students in different locations 
through the use of technology, with the 
purpose of developing multicultural 
and digital skills, strengthening the 
learning of other languages and forming 
global citizens. This program will 
implement three forms of virtual 
mobility with our partners and networks. 
The first is a catalog of 100% virtual 
courses, so that both Uniandes students 
and foreigners can gain access. The 
second initiative is known as Collaborative 
Online International Learning  (COIL)  in 
which two or more professors from 
different institutions teach a course 
together and students have the 
opportunity to interact and participate 
with their counterparts from other 
countries. The third initiative is the 
virtual research internships, which 
offer opportu nities for students 
interested in participating in research 
projects with professors and researchers 
from partner universities and our 
networks.  
Pillar 1.2.  
The university promotes critical thinking , 
ethical reflection and environmental and 
social awareness.  
Initiative shared with Pillar 1.1:  
Evaluation of learning outcomes and 
quality assurance  
 
 
 
 
 
24 SP  - 2021 -2025  

Main strategies and initiatives   
  
 
 
Deepening the teaching, 
evaluation and practice of 
ethics.  
The capacity for ethical deliberation and 
commitment to professionalism and 
ethical behavior are essential for 
graduates to be agents of change in 
society. The University has made 
progress in strategies that promote the 
formation of et hics and integrity. The 
Center for Applied Ethics has been key to 
this progress.  
This initiative seeks to deepen the 
teaching, practice and evaluation of 
ethics. To this end, the following 
actions will be implemented: expansion 
of the ethics training component in 
disciplinary courses (in addition to that 
which already exists in general 
education  courses ), ethics teaching in 
initial teacher training, teacher training 
in ethics pedagogy , and strengthening 
ethics in research and academic 
integrity. In addition, the University will 
accompany professors in promoting the 
teaching and learning of ethics in all 
areas of performance (personal, 
academic, professional and civic).  
Reading and writing for the 
promotion of citi zenship 
competencies and socioemotional 
skills.  
All undergraduate students at the 
University are required to take two 
college writing courses as part of their 
degree requirements. Writing helps to 
build several skills simultaneously and is 
an ideal means of discussing  
 
 
 
SP - 2021 -2025   

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  26  
  
 
and validat ing ideas in scientific and 
academic contexts.  
This initiative proposes the 
strengthening of reading, writing and 
oral skills to promote the cross -cutting 
competencies that characterize liberal 
education: citizenship and democratic 
values, as well as socio -emotional 
competencies that include solidarity, 
respect and empathy.  
Promotion of collaborative work 
and digital  skills  
The abilities to lead teams, work in 
groups, adopt roles within a team and 
contribute with a critical and 
constructive perspective are developed 
through practice. Similarly, the digital 
competencies (the ability to think 
problems in algorithms,  thematic data 
management and the creation of digital 
resources ) can be acquired in both 
disciplinary and thematic courses. This 
initiative seeks to promote these 
competencies in a transversal manner 
with a line of training for teachers to 
provide them wit h tools for structuring 
their pedagogical activities and 
evaluating learning.  
Undergraduate research skills 
training  
The ability to question, inquire and 
solve problems is fundamental to 
address the climate crisis, socio -
economic challenges, and the 
management of   
 
innovation in any discipline. This 
initiative seeks to promote these 
research and creative skills from the 
undergraduate level. The proposal 
includes ensuring a curricular and non -
curricular offer of activities, courses and 
projects for undergraduate students that 
promote research and creative skills.  
Territory option  
 
The territorial option seeks to replicate 
the successful experience of Colombia 
Option. It will offer the possibility of 
internships in the municipalities and 
departments with the greatest needs. 
The University will coordinate the 
different activities with the territorial 
entities, compile the experiences and 
help create a bank of projects. Over time, 
this activity will foster the social 
commitment of the students, the 
forma tion of leaders in the territories and 
promote an effective contribution to the 
development of the regions.  
Empathy and coexistence strategy  
This initiative promote s empathy as a 
coexistence principle among 
community members. The initiative 
will promote reflection on our values 
and purpose in life, on the ways in 
which we express our emotions and 
interact with others. Understanding 
that the other is different is the starting 
point for respectf ul, compassionate and 
supportive interactions. This initiative 
will be articulated with others that seek 
to strengthen ethical competencies and 
collaborative work.  

Main strategies and initiatives   
  
Pillar 1.3.  
The University promotes lifelong 
learning and the ability to adapt to 
changing and uncertain environments.  
Initiative shared with Pillar 1.1:  
New marketing and program 
positioning strategies  
Flexible and relevant continuing education 
structured around the modular and 
stackable micro -credential model.  
The model of human capital 
formation at a specific moment in a 
person's life cycle is insufficient given 
the dynamism of modern labor 
markets. I n addition, people 
increasingly do not require a complete 
postgraduate degree to update their 
professional profile , but rather seek to 
acquire specific competencies for their 
work.  In this new context, this initiative 
seeks to define the guidelines for the 
creation of a modular education model 
based on competencies and micro -
credentials. These modules will be 
articulated with the graduate school 
through the offer of continuing 
educat ion: a student will be able to 
become certified in specific competencies 
of a discipline through courses taken 
through continuing education. The 
micro -credential or set of micro -
credentials can later be accredited in 
formal graduate programs , which is 
defined as a flexible learning path 
between non-regular and regular 
programs.  
The strategy requires that the design of 
postgraduate programs be conceived 
from the perspective of competencies 
and that the definition of the modules 
to be certif ied be established from the 
beginning in a coherent and well -
articulated manner with the formal 
program. The creation of these  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Universidad de los Andes   
 28PDI  - 2021 -2025  
 
certifiable  modules must respond to the 
needs of professionals and the labor 
market. Therefore, this strategy will be 
informed by an annual market study in 
Colombia and Latin America that will 
inquire about the most pressing needs.  
This initiative seeks to increase 
continuing education revenues with an 
emphasis on a virtual and hybrid 
model (with the participation of at 
least one third of the  number of 
students in this type of course). In 
addition, it seeks to build the loyalty of 
continuing education students throug h 
micro -credentials with the possibility 
of homologation in formal graduate 
programs. These changes will require 
centralized articulation to respond in an 
agile and timely manner to the 
requirements of the private sector, the 
public sector and the third sec tor in 
terms of the training of their human 
resources. The initiative also seeks to 
reach regional audiences in Colombia 
and other Latin  American countries 
and to help  reduce the number of 
people in need of training.  The program promotes the formation of 
specific human capital in populations 
that might not be able to access formal 
university education.  
For this strategy, it will be essential to 
strengthen ties with our graduates: to 
know their needs and expectations more 
precisely to offer a set of rele vant services 
and products. It also seeks to enrich our 
continuing education programs and 
offerings with the expertise of our alumni 
community.  
Institutional agenda with 
Uniandinos - Strengthening of 
the alumni community  
Through the agreement recently 
reached with the National Board of the 
University's Alumni Association , the two 
institutions reaffirmed their willingness to 
build, in a sustainable and long -term 
manner , greater bonds of trust in order to 
take advantage of potential synergies.  

Main strategies and initiatives   
 PDI - 2021 -202529   
 
The agreement determines a joint 
institutional agenda. The agenda 
includes the strengthening of 
Uniandinos' corporate governance 
model , as well as the review of the 
broadened concept of employees and 
the attached community (professors, 
collaborators, students and families).  
In particular, the agreement seeks 
the construction of value proposals 
linked to entrepreneurship, the definition 
of an employability  platform that 
maximizes the profile and number of 
opportunities for graduates, and the 
articulation of Uniandinos' social 
responsibility actions with the 
University's volunteer program. It also 
includes the adoption of th e Council for 
Advancement and Support of Education  
(CASE)  model by the Association and 
the definition of a private alumni 
community platform . Finally, in the 
search for synergies and shared value , the 
University and Uniandinos will develop 
joint and ambitious proposals to expand 
the offer of continuing education courses.  Dream 2: A university that 
promotes the wellbeing of all its 
members, pluralism, social justice 
and gender equity and diversity  
 
Pillar 2.1.  
The University promotes, in its internal 
affairs, a participative, supportive and 
transparent decision -making process.  
Comprehensive evaluation of 
managers and their appointment 
through a participatory process  
This initiative seeks to generate trust in 
the community, consolidate a cu lture of 
accountability and build legitimacy 
about the University' s relevant decisions.  
The appointment of directors will be 
made in a participatory and open manner 
and will strive for gender parity. This 
process will not only help to build trust, 
but will  also provide detailed 
information on the current situation of 
the faculties,  

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  30  
  
centers  and managements, so that an 
articulated action plan can be built 
jointly. In addition, a more structured 
management evaluation process will be 
implemented , incorporating both self -
evaluation and a 360° evaluation with 
key stakeholders.  
Participation of pr ofessors and 
articulated work committees  
As a result of the recent reform of the 
University's Bylaws, the participation 
of professors, by direct election of the 
faculty, in the Superior Council and the 
Academic Council will be designed and 
implemented. Greater participation 
will help  design a structured and 
articulated working mechanism with 
the faculty representatives in the faculty 
councils , the professors who participate 
in the Superior Council and the 
Academic Council, and t he University 's 
management. Collegial work will 
generate trust, efficiency, effectiveness 
and legitimacy.  
Student participation  
 
The Undergraduate Student Council  
(CEU) has been strengthening and 
consolidating itself over the last few years 
as an active a nd rigorous participatory 
body. Its contributions to building  
academic and non -academic initiatives in 
its faculties and in the University have 
been notable. Likewise, this initiative 
seeks to support the consolidation of the 
Graduate Student Council  (CEPA)  a 
younger body, and its active participation 
in the   University's governing bodies. 
Collaborative work among students, 
faculty, employees and managers will be 
fundamental to achieve our goals.  
Pillar 2.2.  
The University promotes an 
environment respectful of diversity, 
different life experiences and views of 
society.  
Initiative shared with Pillar 1.2:  
Empathy and coexistence strategy  
 
 
A more inclusive and equitable university  
 
This initiative promotes  a community that 
respects, welcomes and values 
differences in abilities, ethnic and 
socioeconomic origin , socio -cultural, 
sexual orientation and gender identity.  
The initiative will be based on the 
following pillars:  
1. Systematic characterization of our 
diversity: the Diversity Center, the 
Office  of Planning, Admissions and 
Registration and Human Resources 
will oversee  analyzing the diversity of 
our community. The exercise will be 
accompanied by dialogues with the 
different groups to understand the 
needs and experiences of each one. 
This accompaniment will allow us to 
identify opportunities to reduce gaps 
and improve equity in access to the 
University's services and resources.  
2. Promoting an academic environment 
in which the necessary supports are 
in place to ensure all students 

SP - 2021 -2025  31  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have the same opportunities to build 
a successful academic project.  
3. Development of training spaces in 
university design strategies for 
learning by the  (DECA) i n 
collaboration with the Faculty of 
Education. In turn, the Diversity 
Center will develop a series of 
informational and pedagogical 
resources that will enable teachers to 
know and understand the different 
conditions of disability and the best 
practices tha t favor inclusion.  
4. Development and implementation of 
digital accessibility criteria for 
students with disabilities, in the 
context of the digital transformation of 
the University and by the Academic 
Vice Rector's Office,  Conecta -TE the Office  of Services and 
Technology and the Diversity Center, 
under the (WCAG) g uidelines 
(Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 
2.0), in the University main web 
pages and digital tools , as well as in 
postgraduate , continuing education 
and undergraduate programs in 
virtual or hybrid format.  
Collective adoption of an 
anti-MAAD cu lture  
Academic and non -academic 
disciplinary offenses, and those  that 
result from them, are a major source of 
stress and anxiety for students, faculty 
and administrative teams of the 
University. In addition, the University is 
facing increasing demands from the 
community for the fair and timely 
handling and resolution o f 
 

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  32  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mistreatment, harassment, threats, 
discrimination and gender -based 
violence  (MAAD) . This initiative seeks a 
comprehensive review of the 
disciplinary regulations for students, 
professors and administrative teams , as 
well as the strengthening of the 
instances and processes established for 
the management of misconduct, 
harassment, threats,  discrimination and 
gender violence  (MAAD).  
The review, apart from clarifying 
the channels, processes and attention 
routes, will also have an important 
emphasis on defining an attention 
process with a preventive perspective, 
instead of a punitive emphasis . This 
review will be accompanied by   preventive and formative campaigns so 
that the University moves towards a 
culture that welcomes and values 
differences.  
Implementation o f Professor 
regulations  
The 2015 Faculty Statute has been 
implemented  according to the specific 
definitions and rules established in the 
faculty regulations of the faculties and 
centers. As of June 2021, the Academic 
Council had approved ten of the twelve 
regulations. The remaining two will be 
approved soon. The 2015 Statut e 
envisions a more integral professor in 
his or her three areas of responsibility : 
teaching, research and institutional 
development. It also proposes a more 
flexible career (in the sense of being able 
to establish different emphases or take 
advantage of comparative advantages 
to define a different career without 
having to create specific profiles for each 
case) and a continuous evolution of the 
professor along professorial 
subcategories. This initiative gathers all 
the efforts for the implementation and 
subsequent revision of the new 
regulations. The initiative seeks to 
facilitate different life experiments that 
contribute to the community from 
different perspectives.  
Institutional initiative for 
interdisciplinary work  
Interdiscipli nary work allows us to 
build a community around teaching, 
research and creation. It also generates  

SP - 2021 -2025  33  
 meeting points between different disciplines 
and the possibility of working 
collaboratively. For this reason, it has the 
potential to promote well -being by fostering 
empathy, joint work and impact  shared. The 
following institutional strategies aim to 
promote interdisciplinary work within the 
University and with the external sector.  
1. Challenges : frequent calls for 
interdisciplinary groups oriented to the 
soluti on of complex problems of the 
country and the region.  
2. Research centers : the new centers 
(CODS , Cinfonia, Sustainable Finance, 
etc.) will work on a portfolio of 
interdisciplinary  projects to provide 
solutions to specific, complex and 
systemic problems of so ciety.  
3. Promote interdisciplinary academic 
programs : both at the undergraduate 
and graduate levels, with cutting -edge 
topics and competencies and an 
impactful approach to the great 
challenges of our country and the Latin 
American context.  
4. Interdisciplinary dialogues : ongoing 
among professors and continuing 
interdisciplinary dialogues among 
doctoral students that were successfully 
initiated in 2019 and led to the creation 
of an interdisciplinary group in water 
studies.  
Pillar 2.3.  
The University promotes the mental and 
physical health and well -being of students, 
staff and administrative workers.  
Initiative shared with pillars 1.2. and 2.2:  
Empathy and coexistence strategy   Initiative shared with Pillar 1.1:  
Institutional authentic learning 
assessment initiative  
 
 
Strengthening the 
student welfare system  
According to the 2018 and 2019 Healthy 
Minds report, which includes a sample 
of approximately fourteen thousand 
undergraduate students from nineteen 
countries around the world, the 
fraction of students reporting anxiety 
problems increased from 17% to 31% 
over the past six years and the 
prevalence of chronic depression 
increased from 8% to 18% over the past 
ten years . Therefore, the demand for 
student wellness services at 
universities has increased sixfold over 
the past five years.  
There are several complementary  
hypotheses on the reasons for this 
accelerated increase in mental health 
problems in the university student 
population. First, an increase in 
diagnostic capacity and greater 
awareness of mental health issues. 
Second, more competitive 
environments because of  changing 
labor markets. Third, a culture of 
instant gratification begotten in part 
from role -shapi ng social networks. 
Fourth, a low frustration tolerance in 
young people probably associated with 
different types of upbringings  that 
are protection -oriented and impair 
the consolidation of resilience. 
Finally, excessive use of electronic s as 
a means of socialization.  
The Universidad de los Andes has 

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  34  
 been no exception to these problems. 
There is a growing demand for support 
services for students in difficult 
circumstances or with mental health 
disorders. To better serve students, not 
only to mitigate mental health problems 
but also to encourage the formation of 
skills and competencies that support 
their overall wellbeing, the University 
will implement a strategy to strengthen 
the student wellbeing system.  
The initiative will revolve  around 
six ideas. First, well -being as everyone's 
responsibility, not just that of the deca . 
Second, emphasis on strengthening the 
resilience of young people. Third, 
achieve flexible and viable intervention 
models : individual counseling is not 
sustainable  in the face of a growing 
demand for services. Fourth, foster a 
culture of empathy for mental health 
problems in teachers and administrative 
teams. Fifth, protect the academic 
project of students with mental health 
difficulties. Finally, to adequately 
addr ess the expectations of students 
and parents. The initiative will provide 
conditions to support students in 
dealing with frustration, adversity and 
difficulties, taking into account that 
curricula, learning experiences and 
interpersonal relationships may impose 
or reproduce stereotypes based on 
gender, socioeconomic status, place of 
origin, etc., which also have an impact 
on well -being. It should be noted that 
the University is not an institution  health  care providers with the capacity to 
offer clinical psychological support.  
There is an almost symbiotic 
relationship between well -being and 
student success. Well -being is part of 
student success, but it is not its only 
component. To achieve harmony 
between  academic goals and individual 
and community well -being, the adoption 
of a culture of student success is 
indispensable. Student success is the 
responsibility of everyone, students, 
faculty, administrative service units and 
support units. The promotion of 
autonomy, perseverance, the ability to 
plan and follow up on one's own goals, 
the use of available resources , 
interpersonal skills and ethics, among 
others, are the responsibility of the entire 
community.  
The student welfare management 
model will be based o n a single student 
information system. Based on data 
analytics and periodic measurement of 
asset indicators, the University will seek 
to identify early warnings of risks in 
order to address emerging problems in a 
focused, timely and relevant manner, 
which in turn will allow for a more 
efficient use of available resources.  
Strengthening labor w ellbeing for 
professors  and administrative teams  
Job burnout, mental health disorders, 
and the need for frustration and stress 
management have increased among the 
teaching and administrative staff 
population in recent years.
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This problem has been 
exacerbated  by the difficulties 
and particular circumstances of 
the company. Well -being at 
Uniandes is conceived as the 
balance between the individual 
and organizational dimensions 
of the employee in an 
environment of trust, 
coherence, empathy, 
collaborative work and  
flexibility.  
With this objective in mind 
and based on the evidence 
provided by the Subjective 
Well -Being Perception Survey, 
this initiative seeks to contribute 
to the promotion of employees ' 
physical, mental, emotional and 
social health. The initiative will 
emphasize supporting leaders 
in their role as key agents in the 
creation of a culture of well -
being.  
Strengthening the culture of 
good service to support 
students and graduates,  
to teachers and 
administrative teams  
This initiative seeks to generate a 
culture of service and attention 
to on-site and virtual students 
(both in formal and continuing 
education programs ), 
graduates, professors and 
administrative teams. The 
culture of good service will 
contribute to the greater well -
being of the community. The  
intention  

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  36  
  
is to promote services and moments 
that are friendly, efficient, formative 
and meaningful.  
Sustainable Campus  
 
The University will maintain and 
strengthen its current sustainable 
campus strategy , which is based on the 
following axes of  (1) culture and 
learning; (2) climate change ; (3) 
campus operation; (4) campus 
ecosystems; and (5) well -being and 
quality of life. Regarding  culture and 
learning, institutional efforts will be 
expanded to allocate research and 
creative budgets for projects related 
to environmental sustainability, as 
well as for the organization of events 
and the development of courses and 
training programs on these topics.  
Efforts to address climate change will 
continue with the s earch for carbon 
neutrality and greater energy 
efficiency on campus, which will 
result in lower energy consumption 
and reduced emissions. The operation 
of the campus will continue to seek 
ways to optimize water and energy 
consumption, as well as the 
produc tion and responsible 
management of waste. We will seek to 
develop a multimodal mobility 
system to support the campus by 
promoting the use of sustainable 
transportation.  All this in addition 
to the environmental management 
plan for the Hacienda El 
Noviciado  and the protection of 
green areas and the ecosystems on 
campus, especially in relation to 
native species.  
  

Main strategies and initiatives  
PDI - 2021 -2025  37  
 Dream 3: A University that works to 
achieve significant impact in knowledge 
generation, sustainability, democratic 
debate, reform proposals and the 
construction of hopeful and inclusive 
narratives.  
Pillar 3.1.  
The University works to achieve 
measurable and sustaina ble impacts on 
its immediate environment.  
Deepening of the work with schools 
(Alianza Educativa and others).  
 
This initiative seeks to work more closely 
with schools to promote (STEM)  
competencies , writing , reading, oral 
communication and critical thinking. 
The initiative will consider  the 
experience accumulated in the 
Atarraya  (STEM) p rojects and a 
teaching company , the Faculty of 
Education and other interdisciplinary 
groups at Uniandes that want to support 
the initiative to work on strengthening 
teaching and learning in basic and 
secondary education in Colombia. The 
initiative will have three lines of action: 
(1) m aking visible, connecting and 
fostering synergies between existing 
projects within the University and 
outside it; (2) training teachers; and (3) 
co-create pedagogical material.  
Also, given the low participation of 
women in  (STEM) p rograms , we will  
stimulate the participation of girls in 
schools in these competitions and will 
work to overcome the gender barriers  
and stereotypes that hinder 
their entry and permanence in (STEM)  careers at the 
University.  
Finally, the services of the Spanish 
Center will be offered to the extended 
community through various channels with 
the objective of strengthening the reading, 
writing and oral communication skills of 
different audiences.  
Collaborative work with university libraries , 
public libraries a nd open library  
 
This initiative seeks to broaden the 
connection with our extended community, 
a relationship in which the University 
contributes to and learns from different 
external audiences. Specifically, the 
initiative aims to collaborate with 
university and public libraries to share 
resources, best practices, training 
workshops and opportunities for 
innovation.   
This initiative will be accompanied 
by the open library proposal that is being 
developed with the District Secretariat of 
Culture and the Network of Public Libraries.  
Pillar 3.2.  
The University works to achieve measurable 
and significant impacts on the generation of 
knowledge and artistic creation.  
  
Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  36  
  
Research and creation impact 
strategy  
The discussion on impact is always 
difficult in higher education 
institutions because it is understood 
differently by different members of 
the community, and it cannot always be 
measured in the short term; moreover, 
it is direct and indirect. The impact is 
also paradoxical, since the greatest 
impact is usually the most difficult to 
measure. Be that as it may , this (SP) 
starts from an assumption : we can have 
more impact on knowledge generation 
and public debates . Not only can we. 
We even must.  
The research and creation impact 
strategy are based  on what has been 
established, on what the Universidad 
de los Andes has been building in 
previous years. It reinforces some 
points . It complements others. It seeks, 
as already mentioned, to increase the 
impact on the communities closest to 
Uniandes, on the national debate , 
public policy and the Colombian and 
Latin American reality.  
Impact should be evaluated 
consistently with different metrics. 
Scientometrics is one of them but not 
the only one. The University will 
strengthen dissemination and outreach 
efforts as proposed in the research and 
creative impact document . The 
proposed strategy ca n be described as 
follows:  
 
 1. Maintain excellence in research and 
creation at the Universidad de los Andes. 
Recognition is fundamental for the 
credibility and the ability to combine 
efforts. To maintain excellence, we 
must work on the culture of research, 
creation and diversification of resources 
supported by the Project Office.  
2. Formulate communication strategies for the 
activities deployed. Concern for the social 
appropriation of knowledge must  be 
permanent. The creation of a digital 
broadcasting company and the 
strengthening of the journal Nota 
Uniandina ( which will be relaunched 
with a new name, the journal Puntos ) will 
help disseminate knowledge and the 
impact of research.  
3. Making the project of an open knowledge 
university a reality. The openness of 
science refers not only to publications and 
data, but also to a closer dialogue with 
society that recognizes the knowledge 
acquired by communities. This initiative 
seeks for different voice s to be heard and 
disseminated.  
4. Challenge the community with questions 
and search for solutions to complex 
problems. We want to contribute to 
solving relevant problems through 
projects that emphasize 
interdisciplinary and collaborative 
actions.  
5. Develop the Entrepreneurial University 
project. This initiative seeks to generate a 
cultural transformation that fosters a pro - 
motive University with a socio -
economic impact. It will be connected to 
the ecosystem of innovation, 
entrepreneurship, and transfer (see

Main strategies and initiatives  
PDI - 2021 -2025  39  
  
"Cross -cutting initiatives and tasks") 
and involves strengthening the 
relationship with the external 
ecosystem: companies, ventures and 
the public sector.  
6. To continue creating financially self -
sustainable research centers. To 
deepen the generation of 
interdisciplinary knowledge and 
provide solutions to the country's 
complex problems in the public and 
private sectors. The centers should 
respond to the demands of the 
external sector (public and private 
sectors) and to dialogue with 
external audiences. They should be 
less "supply -driven" and more 
connected to reality.  
7. Deepen collaborative work with 
regional and international networks. 
The international networks will not 
only help to finance research and 
creation with resources from  global foundations and agencies will 
also connect the University to major 
international trends . Increasing 
international resources is an explicit 
objective of the strategy. In addition, 
regionalization should have as its 
primary objectives the co -creation of 
growth opportunities with 
communities and the leveraging of 
resources. This initiative 
contemplates the creation of a 
royalties coordination office in the 
Project Office to improve the 
relationship with territorial entities 
and strengthen alliances with 
universities in the regions.  
Positioning and internationalization of 
Ediciones Uniandes and Revistas Uniandes  
On the one hand, this initiative seeks to 
increase the impact and visibility of the 
Ediciones Uniandes publishing at the  
 

Universidad de los Andes   
  
national and international  level , and to 
reduce the costs of editorial 
management. The initiative has as its 
goal an editorial plan that will achieve 
at least two co -publications every six 
months with each of t he partners 
proposed as co -publishers in the next 
two years. In the following years we 
will gradually increase the number of 
co-publications until we reach a 
minimum of ten co -publications per year.  
On the other hand, most of the 
University 's journals are disciplinary. 
They have worked together to define 
editorial and ethical policies that help to 
strengthen them. Entry into databases, 
repositories and indexers has led to 
improved ratings and greater visibility 
at the national level. This initiative seeks 
to strengthen Uniandes Journals with 
three main objectives: (1) to achieve 
greater consultation and citation of 
their contents; (2) to improve the rating 
of the journals in international indexers ; 
and (3) to position them as references for 
their acad emic and editorial quality.  
Comprehensive internationalization 
initiative  
 
Internationalization in higher 
education connects universities with 
the world and articulates the local with 
the global. For Uniandes, 
internationalization has been an 
outstanding characteristic since its 
origins, which plays a fundamental role 
in the inse rtion of the University in major 
international debates and the 
strengthening of the academic, scientific 
and intercultural competencies of the 
entire community.  The internationalization strategy, 
which will be integral and transversal 
to all areas of the University, seeks to 
facilitate the transfer and exchange of 
knowledge, promote face -to-face and 
virtual academic mobility, manage 
external resources, diversify 
agreements, strengthen strategic 
alliances, expand double degrees, and 
support the continuous improvement 
and quality of our academic activities.  
In addition to the bilateral 
relationship of professors with their 
peers and of the University with 
partners in the country and abroad, this 
initiative proposes t o strengthen 
participation through national and 
international networks, including the 
networks to which the University 
already belongs and others that emerge 
as new opportunities. Among the new 
networks to which the University 
belongs , it is worth mentioni ng: La 
Tríada, formed by Uniandes , the (TEC)  
Monterrey and the Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile ; (APrU)  a 
network of leading universities in the 
territories of the Pacific basin, with an 
important global impact in research 
production and relations with 
industry;  (OSON),  a new global 
network of educational institutions that 
promotes civic engagement and access to 
higher education for marginalized 
communities; an d (HUC)  made up of 
higher education institutions in Latin 
America, the Caribbean, Canada a nd the 
United States, whose purpose is to 
generate innovative, high -impact 
solutions to address social challenges in 
the region and the rest of the world.

Main strategies and initiatives   
  
Pillar 3.3.  
The University cooperates with other 
actors, in academia and beyond, to 
influence democratic debate, 
sustainability, the reform agenda and 
the construction of hopeful and 
inclusive narratives.  
Initiative shared with Pillar 1.3:  
Flexible and relevant continuing 
education structured around the 
modular and stackable micro -credential 
model.  
 
Initiative shared with Pillar 3.2:  
Research and creation 
impact strategy  
 
 
Tutoring program for 
public schools  
The pandemic has had a negative  
impact on basic education students in 
public institutions. In the best scenario, 
students worked autonomously with 
materials that were prepared  by the 
Ministry of Education and the country's 
education secretariats. This problem will 
have serious repercussions on the 
accumulation of human capital and 
social gaps. A significant lag in the 
educational achievement and academic 
performance of thousand s of young 
people in Colombia can be anticipated.  
This initiative seeks, in partnership 
with other private universities in the 
country, to offer a tutoring scheme made 
up of university students that  offer sessions to reinforce the learning 
process of core subjects to young people 
in elementary, junior  and senior  high 
school. This strategy has the added 
value of contributing to the 
development of professional and 
personal competencies of the students 
who serve as tutors in the progra m. The 
initiative's goal is to have at least 8,000 
volunteers in several private universities 
who can support at least 80,000 students 
in public schools. The pilot will start in 
Bogotá.  
Diversification of campaign capital  
 
The University will seek to reach its 100th 
anniversary with a strengthened 
endowment fund. To this end, the 
promotion of long -term relationships 
with donors, the care of the resources 
received and the fulfillment of the will 
of philanthropists are fundamental.  
The procurement of resources will 
be focused on three axes: (1) equity and 
equal opportunities, which includes all 
scholarships and financial support to 
undergraduate and graduate students ; 
(2) digital unity, which seeks flexibility in 
teaching for the tra nsformation and 
flexibility of educational offerings 
based on pedagogical and technological 
innovation ; and (3) research and 
creation, which promotes the 
advancement of Colombia and Latin 
America. In particular, these efforts 
include the expansion and 
strengthening of the programs of the 
Pa'lante cycle, as well as international 
donations led by the University of the 
Andes Foundation.  
 
 
 
IDP - 2021 -202541   

Universidad de los Andes   
 In cases of financial aid to students, the 
University will continue its efforts to combine 
such mechanisms with the promotion of the 
concepts of solidarity and reciprocity that have 
been central to the I Want to Study  (Quiero 
estudiar)  program. These effor ts include, 
among others, the voluntary contributions made 
by former beneficiaries to finance future 
beneficiaries of the program.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42IDP  - 2021 -2025  

 
    
 
 
 
 
Cross -cutting 
initiatives and 
tasks  
1. Virtual campus and institutional 
initiative for digital transformation. 
The Universidad de los Andes will 
have to evolve to respond to the 
current and future challenges of 
higher education in a digital 
environment. This change will 
require the implementation of 
digital transformation strategies and 
the adaptation of the campus to 
virtuality.  
The transformation seeks to create a flexible, 
relevant and quality offer of the virtual  graduate school 
on the digital campus, enrich the experience of the 
undergraduate and continuing education programs, 
and enhance scientific production and its impact.  
The University's ambition is to be a leader in 
Latin America in virtual and hybri d postgraduate 
and continuing education in Spanish, as well as in 
advanced computing. This leadership will promote 

Universidad de los Andes   
 research, creation, technology transfer and the 
provision of associated services.  
 
SP - 2021 -202543   
 
 
Universidad de los Andes  
 
 
The first objective of the strategy is to 
create and implement a flexible and 
modular offering of virtual and hybrid 
graduate degree programs that respond 
to the current needs and demand of the 
labor market. The goal is to achieve a t 
least 2,000 new students in innovative 
virtual and hybrid graduate programs , 
i.e., to grow by 50%.  
The second objective is to 
strengthen the supply of face -to-face, 
virtual and hybrid continuing education 
courses with an agile and innovative 
production model that maintains quality 
differentiators , that can be articulated 
with the supply of postgraduate 
courses, and that responds to current 
needs for training and development of 
competencies throughout the life cycle. 
The goal is to increase income from 
Continuing Education  (COED)  by at 
least 50%; to achieve at least 35% of new 
enrolments in virtual or hybrid 
programs (open, corporate , extension 
and free); and to successfully 
implement the modular education 
model  through micro -certifications.  
Finally, the strategy seeks to 
increase the impact of research, creation 
and technology transfer by 
strengthening advanced computing 
capabilities, technology management, the 
supply of associated services and the 
procurement o f external resources. It 
also seeks to develop the digital 
laboratory service in order to offer 
advanced computing services and 
increase the capacity to obtain external 
resources.  
The digital transformation strategy 
prioritizes the following capabilities 
and   
 
projects with the purpose of achieving 
the proposed objectives in the next five 
years.  
Academic priorities are: 
• Design and implement the data 
analysis ecosystem at different 
levels: institutional, academic, 
learning and curriculum, to track 
indicators and facilitate evidence -
based decision making.  
• Identify, redesign and digitize the 
digital processes and services that 
support the University's virtual and 
face-to-face programs, in order to 
optimize them and improve the 
digital experience of th e community.  
• Evaluate the functionality, reliability 
and scalability of available systems 
(such as Banner, BrightSpace, 
Salesforce, single platform for 
purchasing and payments, among 
others) to design, market, operate and 
monitor state -of-the-art academic 
programs.  
• Develop a centralized digital 
marketing strategy , from start to 
finish, articulated between units, for 
the promotion of graduate and 
EDUCATION programs , to increase 
enrollment and income.  
• To create a new, flexible and 
modular offer of virtual and hybrid 
graduate programs, with quality 
differentiators (such as learning 
outcomes assessment , immersive 
technologies , adaptive learning, 
instructional design , among others), 
that meet the needs of the market  
 
 
Cross -cutting initiatives and tasks  
 
 
 
and expectations of potential 
students.  
• Design and implement the offer of 
micro -credentials and digital badges 
by (COED), articulated with the offer 
of the faculties.  
• Launch a robust single student portal 
to move from a siloed system of care 
by academic departments to a 
centralized, agile "one -stop store" 
type model on web and mobile.  • Design and implement the 
academic counseling service 
and the strategic plan for 
student success for graduate 
students.  
• Define change management , 
communication and training 
strategies to create a digital 
culture aligned with the 
digital transformation 
initiative. The adoption of the 
digital culture should ensure 
the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SP - 2021 -2025    45  
Cross -cutting  initiatives and tasks  
SP - 2021 -2025  47  
 
 
access to vulnerable populations 
based on socioeconomic status or 
gender, so as not to exacerbate pre -
existing gaps.  
In terms of research, creation and 
knowledge transfer, the digital 
transformation should emphasize the 
following:  
• Design a platform of high -
performance  digital computer 
laboratories to increase and 
optimize the use of technological 
resources offered and managed by 
the Office  of Information and 
Technology Services  (DSIT ) in 
research processes, both for Uniandes 
users and external clients.  
• Strengthen and unify the Academia, 
Platypus and Retos platforms , in 
order to improve efficiency in 
obtaining external resources 
through research and creation.  
• Implement a tool to identify and 
segment community members 
according to their academic 
background and research interests.  
In addition, the digital 
transformation initiative includes 
shaping a system for making 
institutional decisions based on data 
and information. To achieve this 
requires:  
• Manage data (particularly structured 
data) as institutional, strategic and 
high -value assets. To this end, the 
strategy proposes the crea tion of a 
unit with the mission of   
address three fundamental pillars: (1) 
data governance; (2) the inte - 
gration of strategic data for use; and 
(3) the provision of reporting, 
analysis and information analytics 
tools.  
• To have a board made up of leaders 
of academic and administrative units , 
which will make decisions on data 
management , prioritization of 
initiatives and will also generate the 
tactical commitment to implement 
cross -cutting projects , such as 
standardization , quality monitoring 
and the generation of an analytical 
culture.  
• To achieve the decisive support of the 
technology area  (DSIT) and of the 
different functional units responsible 
for key data, such as Admissions and 
Registration, the Planning 
Department, the Finance 
Department, t he Human Resources 
and Organizational Development 
Department, among others.  
• To have a transversal axis that 
integrates the processes : the 
institutional  (Crm) This will not only 
be a repository of relationship data, 
but also a technological enabler to 
maintain institutional memory and 
seek efficiency in various mission  
processes . The (Crm) s hould be 
integrated with the (ErP) s ystem and 
with academic systems (e.g., 
Academia and Platypus), to use the 
information accurately for both 
administrative and academic issues. 
This integration will increase 
efficiency, agility, impact,  and 
projection  to the external sector.  

Universidad de los Andes  
PDI - 2021 -2025  46  
 
 
The different units will be able to take  
advantage of access to data and 
information. Over time, they will acquire 
the ability to perform business 
intelligence reporting. For example, the 
academic units , depending on their own 
capacity , will generate and manage 
dashboards and indicators. This 
initiative will facilitate the gradual 
generation of advanced analytical 
capabili ties by central management and 
faculties . Of course, the systematic 
analysis of the data will have to be 
accompanied by reflections and 
qualitative exercises that will jointly 
feed the best teaching, research and 
global management decisions of the 
Universi ty. 
 
2. Integral support 
strategy for teaching 
careers  
This strategy seeks to promote the 
development of teaching, research and 
creative, communication and 
management skills at different stages of 
the professors' careers. The University 
will support professors so that they 
can, in turn, support the process of 
training students' skills and 
competencies and act as advisors and 
mentors for new generations.  
The strategy consists of the 
following pillars:  
• The definition of the framework of 
competencies indispensable for the 
exercise of (1) good teaching; (2) good 
research and creation, its 
dissemination and financing; and (3)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
good management of units and 
projects, human talent and financial 
resources for those professors 
interested in contributing to 
institutional development both 
internally and externally.  
• The construction of an offer that 
supports the training and 
development of the competencies 
defined by area: teaching, research, 
and institution al creation and 
development.  
• The training and development 
offerings will be provided in an 
articulated and integrated manner 
from all the University's support 
centers, which include the Teaching 
and Learning Center of the College 
of Education, the Spanish Center, 
Conecta -TE and the Ethics Center.  
The offer will be organized in a way 
coherent  

Cross -cutting  initiatives and tasks  
SP - 2021 -2025  47  
 
throughout a teacher's career, 
according  to the teacher's needs 
and regulations.  
• The offer will be flexible and will 
range from modules of a couple of 
hours to individualized support 
throughout a whole semester. The 
offer will allow teachers to be 
formally certified in certain 
competencies.  Some of these 
modules may be offered to 
teachers from other educational 
institutions through Continuing 
Education. This initiative will be 
the result of the articulated work 
of the Academic Vice -Rectory, the 
Vice -Rectory for Research and 
Creation, Human R esources and 
the contribution of professors and 
experts in different areas.  
• The initiative will be 
accompanied by a monitoring 
and evaluation strategy to 
establish the impact of the 
training and development 
offerings on faculty competencies 
and on the results of teaching , 
research and institutional 
creation and development.  
 
3. Internal and 
external 
communication 
strategies and  
external relationship  
In the previous structure of the 
University, the head of  communications of the Office  of External 
Positioning had a focus on external 
communications,  i.e., it was dedicated to the  
production and dissemination of journalistic 
content aimed at external audiences 
(institutional website and social networks) 
and relations with the mass media, with an 
emphasis on positioning the Uniandes 
brand. There was no area in charge of 
internal communication. This strategy aims 
to strengthen internal and external 
communication, as well as the way Uniandes 
relates to the external sector.  
The first step is to define the actions and 
people in charge of an internal 
communication plan , which aims to  
(1) to build trust among community 
members and make governance more fluid; 
(2) to generate  a sense of belonging to the 
community; and (3) to transfer relevant 
information in order to act in a timely 
manner.  
In this proposal, the "community" is 
understood as all members of Uniandes, 
including undergraduate, graduate and 
continuing education stud ents , professors, 
administrative teams, graduates of all 
programs and continuing education, and 
parents. Internal communication must be 
careful in both content and form and 
recognize each audience, their interests and 
needs. It must also be consistent, transparent 
and timely.  
Communication that builds trust and 
creates community is not only written, but 
also shaped by spaces for dialogue, 
events, interdisciplinary activities on and 
off campus, and spontaneous encounters.     
Second, the external communication strategy will continue to strengthen the 

Universidad de los Andes  
SP - 2021 -2025  48  
 consolidation and positioning of the 
Uniandes brand among external 
audiences , while at the same time making 
visible and promoting the impact of the 
University's products and activi ties and 
managing relations and alliances with 
the media.  
The initiatives of the external 
communication strategy should aim to 
disseminate and give greater reach to 
the University's academic and scientific 
products and build bridges with the 
external secto r, the public sector and 
civil society. The strategy should be 
aligned with the initiatives of this SP 
and the particular circumstances of the 
University at any given time.  
External communication must 
recognize each audience and 
communicate with them according to 
their specificities and interests. The 
communication initiative, both in ternally 
and externally in the  
 University seeks to align the interests of 
the University with the specific 
objectives of the faculties and units, 
relying on the strengths and capabilities 
that have been developed over the years 
for the benefit of the entire community.  
This strategy implies an institutional 
restructuring of the communications area. 
The Office  of External Positioning will be 
transferred from the Vice President 's 
Office for Development and Alumni to 
the Office  of the President , with the aim 
of centralizing matters of institutional 
interest in a more articulated manner 
with the faculties and units and 
providing a global panorama that will 
have both internal and external impact. 
In addition, this strategy will have four 
specific initiatives: (1) the creation o f a 
digital radio station; (2) the 
strengthening of the magazine Nota 
Uniandina ( which will have national 
circulation and will become the new 
magazine Puntos ); 
(3) the creation of an official University 
podcast ; and (4) the promotion of internal 
media.  
 
4. Innovation ecosystem,  
entrepreneurship and transfer  
This ecosystem is a scenario of 
interaction and articulation in which 
our community (students, professors , 
employees, academic and 
administrative units , and alumni) and 
the external sector (organizations, 
communities, and 

Cross -cutting initiatives and tasks  
PDI - 2021 -2025  51  
  
and individuals) interact to generate 
innovative knowledge -based solutions 
(products, services, businesses) that 
can solve societal problems and generate 
social and economic impact in the 
immediate environment (Bogota), the 
country and the region.  
The ecosystem has the following 
explicit objectives: to generate and foster 
a culture of innovation, consolidate 
transfer, promote  the generation of 
knowledge -based ventures and 
strengthen relations with the public and 
private sectors.  
 
 
 
 The ecosystem involves the following 
units and their respective processes: 
innovation unit, transference unit, 
entrepreneurship unit, relat ionship and 
networking unit and infrastructure 
management unit.  
This initiative seeks particularly to 
strengthen cooperation with the 
external sector (regional, national and 
international) to contribute to the 
generation of impact. The ecosystem 
must not o nly have a clear 
understanding of the external 
ecosystem (companies, financiers , 
entrepreneurs) but also be integrated 
into it, so that our innovators are 
immersed in an appropriate  
environment for licensing or business 
creation.  
 
5. Sustainable 
Development 
Initiative  
The problems of sustainable 
development must be a priority in both 
teaching and research. They are not only 
the greatest challenge of today's 
generation, but also a risk to humanity. 
The University will develop this 
initiative in three ways.  
The first is through training, which 
implies leading a collective awareness 
of the real dimension of the problem 
and its urgency and the opportunity to 
propose solutions. The open lectures 
(such as Nuestro Futuro), the  

Universidad de los Andes  
PDI - 2021 -2025  50  
  
permanent dissemination of the topic in our media and the 
sustainable  campus initiative point in this direction.  
The second is through research. The promotion of 
interdisciplinary research and the strengthening of the new 
centers, in particular the Center  for Sustainable Development 
Goals  (CODS ) and the Center for Sustainable Finance  (CFS) , are 
essential to this end.  
Finally, the third, thanks to the creation of alliances with 
the private and public sectors in the context of the innovation 
ecosystem, in order to seek solutions to the problems of 
adaptation and mitigation of the effects of climate change.  

Financial and administrative 
framework   
    
 
 
 
Financial and 
administrative 
framework  
The 2021 -2025  SP  is based on two overlapping 
circumstances in the post -pandemic context. First, a 
cyclical one, derived from the economic effects of the 
pandemic and its consequences on the different sectors 
of the national economy. Second, a more structural 
trend , associated with the stability of total student 
enrollment, the impossibility of significant increases in 
the price of undergraduate tuition, and the sustained 
(and inertial) growth in operat ing costs, especially 
labor costs.  
These circumstances make clear the exhaustion of 
a financial model that was the basis for the development 
and growth of the University during the last decades . 
For the planning period of the current  SP, and certainly 
for the following years, the University will not 
(unrealistically) be able to expect growing revenues 
from more undergraduate students and systematic 
increases in enrollment.  
On the contrary, the new context implies that future 
revenues must inco rporate as a basic assumption the 
convergence of the undergraduate population  
 

PDI - 2021 -2025  50 Universidad de los Andes   
 
52IDP  - 2021 -2025  
 
toward  a stable number (about 15,000 
students) and real increases in 
enrollment only if necessary. 
Achieving a stable population of 15,000 
undergraduate students requires 
efforts and difficult decisions on 
several fronts, such as partial 
scholarships, differenti al fees per 
program, changes in admissions 
criteria, changes in some of the 
qualified registries, improved scouting , 
and substantial growth in some of the 
more dynamic programs. Increasing 
demand programs should help to 
address the decline in the number of  
students in demand programs.  The number of students in the faculties 
of Engineering and Social Sciences is 
decreasing, (see Figures 3 and 4).  
Although undergraduate tuition 
revenues will continue to be a major 
source of income for the University, their 
share will remain stable over time. 
Thus, new expenditure and investment 
needs must have alternative sources of 
financing. These new sources will be 
concentrated in the growth of 
continuing education offerings , as well 
as i n the institutional commitment , 
which has been described in this 
document, associated with the new 
hybrid and virtual graduate programs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Graph 3  Medical Students  
 
 
SP - 2021 -202553   

Financial and administrative 
framework   
  
 
 
 
Graph 4. Industrial Engineering Students  
 
This strategy will be complemented , 
in proportionately smaller amounts, by 
income from philanthropic activities (see 
"Diversification of the capital campaign "), 
on-campus auxiliary services, research 
and consulting contracts, and external 
fundraising (see " Research and creative 
impact strategy "). Contributions are also 
expected to be associated with financial 
returns from operations and investments 
in domestic and foreign currencies. Yields 
could increase in the coming years 
because of  good management of the 
portfolio, as well as the liquidation  of 
some  of the University’s   
real estate assets strengthen it.  
At the same time , the SP  2021 -2025 
considers the new guidelines for the 
control of the University's operating 
expenses, especially with regard to the 
growth of the payroll. In the short and 
medium term, it will be necessary to 
achieve great stability in the size of the 
teaching staff, as well as optimizations in 
the administrative staff.  
Operating budget  
Graph 5 and Table 1 present the financial 
projections derived from the described 
actions to be implemented.  

Universidad de los Andes  
PDI - 2021 -2025  54  
 
 
The figures refer exclusively to the 
University's operating budget. Table 1 
shows the intermediate scenario for the 
statement of income and expenditures 
resulting from the projections illustrated 
in Figure 5.  
The projections are the result of 
possible temporary changes in the 
different items that make up the 
University's income and expenses. In 
particul ar, the prospective analysis 
includes the following goals and 
assumptions:  
• Undergraduate students: 15,000 by 
2025; annual growth in the value of 
tuition at CPI . 
• Face -to-face master's degree 
students: 4,000 by 2025; annual 
enrollment growth at CPI  + 1 pp. 
• Virtual/hybrid master's degree 
students : 100 in 2021, growing to 
between 2000 and 3000 by 2025.  • Continuing education: growing 
between 10% and 15% annually, 
between 2021 and 2025.  
• Revenues from projects/research : 
grow between  CPI + 2 pp and CPI + 
5 pp, between the years 2021 and 
2025.  
• Cost of teachers' payroll: grows 
between 2 % and 4 % per year in real 
terms due to the effect of the 
Teachers' Statute.  
• Administrative payroll cost: 
variation between -1 % and 1 % real 
annual variation between 2021 and 
2025.  
• Cost of graduate assistants and 
professors : increases at the  CPI  
every year.  
• Operating costs: variation between  
-1 % and 1 % real annual rate, 
between 2021 and 2025.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Financial and administrative 
framework  
PDI - 2021 -2025  57  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Graph 5. Financial projections (ranges of variation)  

Universidad de los Andes  
PDI - 2021 -2025  56  
  
Table 1. Projected revenues and expenditures in 2025  
 
 
 
 
Operating income  
 
Undergraduate   
 
525 000 
Postgraduate  154 000 
Continuing education  35 000  
Other income (vacations, housing, certificates)  22 000  
Contracts  59 000  
Scholarships  -118 000 
Total operating income  677 000  
Operating expenses  
 
Administrative and other personnel   
 
147 000  
Chairs  33 000 
Teachers  209 000  
Graduate assistantships  26 000  
Bonuses  18 000  
Operating expenses  175 000  
Total operating expenses  609 000  
Depreciation and amortization  28 000  
Operating surplus  39 000  
ebitda  68 000  
 
Amounts in millions of Colombian  Pesos 

Financial and administrative 
framework  
  
PDI - 2021 -2025  59  
  
These results suggest that the 
implementation of the initiatives and 
strategies contemplated in this SP, which 
include an emphasis on virtual  graduate 
programs and continuing education, as 
well as an increase in the number of 
students admitted to the most dynamic 
programs (in addition to academic , 
administrative and research 
strengthening ), will make it possible to 
recover the University's investment 
capacity and guarantee its sustainability.  
In addition, to achieve a balance in the 
operating budget and to finance its 
investment plans , the University has 
non-operating income that must grow 
as part of the implementation of the  SP. 
These include donations managed by the 
Philanthropy Department team,  as well 
as resources from the University of the 
Andes Foundation, based in the United 
States.  
In addition to the above, there is the 
initiative of auxiliary services for the 
economic exploitation of the campus and 
the expected returns from investments in 
local and foreign currency and the 
valuation of the endowment . Non -
operating income for the nex t five years 
should be in the order of 60,000 million 
pesos per year (close to 10% of total 
income).  Investment budget  
The main sources of financing for the 
University's investments include 
surpluses achieved in previous periods, 
non-operating income (taking into 
account donations and financial 
returns ), the eventual liquidation of 
assets, the acquisition of debt and the use 
of reserves.  
This means that the so -called 
investment allocations must be 
quantified and limited according to the 
University 's budget results. In addition, 
decisions can be made to increase 
institutional savings and strengthen the 
investment portfolio (endowment ) 
managed by the financial committee of 
the Board of Governors.  
The figures mentioned in Graph 5 
and Table 1 allow us to estimate that 
the annual investment budget for the 
next few years will be in the order of 50 
billion pesos, after deducting debt 
service commitments and the student 
loan portfolio. These resources, as 
mentioned above, will be focused 
primarily on implem enting the digital 
transformation strategy (see Table 2).  
 
  

Universidad de los Andes  
PDI - 2021 -2025  58  
  
Table 2. Investment plan for the digital transformation initiative (2021 -2025).  
 
Total annual investment values  
 
 
 
 
 
 
the central administration  
 
 
the Academic Vice -Rectory  
 
Vice Rector's Office for Research and Creation  
 
The remaining funds will be allocated  
to pending investments in the physical and 
technological infrastructure of the campus, 
the acquisition and replacement of 
laboratory and computer equipment , and 
the funds of the Office of the Vice President 
for Research and Creation (including 
resources for the entrepreneurship, 
innovation and transfer initiative).  
The investment commitments of both 
the academic units and the central 
administration, focused on the fulfillment of 
the mission objectives, particularly those 
mentioned in thi s SP , must also be added.  
For the latter, in addition to the 
availability of cash, the correct 
differentiation between capex and opex , the 
return and operating benefit documented by 
each investment will be taken into account as 
decision and  new infrastructure needs   
 
Amounts in millions of Colombian P esos 
 And equipment, redundancy and 
duplication of assets and commitments 
acquired in previous periods.  
Other adjustments to the 
University's operating 
structure  
The financial and administrative 
framework that supports the  SP 2021 -2025 
takes into account several adjustments to 
the University's operating scheme ; all of 
them focused on achieving greater 
efficiency, as well as more clarity and 
transparency in the management of financial 
information and compliance with the rules 
and guidelines for the administration of the 
academic and administrative units' budgets.  
This includes a reform, starting in 2022, 
in the University's budget structure, whereby 
the University wil l have four independent 
budget lines   2021  2022  2023  2024  2025  
Start -up10  962  
30 252   
22 131   
13 944  
9592  
Investment put into operation by  4156
   
13 977   
9962   
6775   
5747 
Investment put into operation by  4222  
12 741   
12 169   
7168  
3846  
Investment put into operation by la  2584
   
3534  
0  
0  
0 
 

Financial and administrative 
framework  
  
PDI - 2021 -2025  59  
 
 
that will allow a better understanding 
of the data and thus help with decision 
making . The lines will be operating, 
investment, external financing projects 
and surplus management funds.  
In addition, starting in 2022, a new 
model for the distribution of resources 
received by the University from 
undergraduate tuition payments will 
be implemented. This new model will 
be focused on recognizing the real 
expenses of the academic units, while 
generating the correct incentives for 
quality assurance in teaching.  
In addition to the new revenue 
distribution model, decisions have been 
made to reduce or even eliminate 
overhead for revenues associated with 
continuing education, services and 
projects.  and consulting services. The combination 
of the new undergraduate revenue 
model and the adjustments to the  OH  
should result in the elimination of the 
denounced sustainable contribution that 
the units pay each year to the central 
adm inistration, as well as in a new policy 
that guarantees the availability of the 
surpluses associated with those sources 
of revenue that are different from 
undergraduate tuition.  
If fulfilled , the SP 2021 -2025 will 
make the University of the Andes a more 
connected institution, with greater 
social impact, happier (or, at least, 
more aware of the well -being of all) and 
more sustainable. The implementation 
challenges are many, but the power of the 
vision set forth here and the commitment 
of all will ensure the success of our plans 
and purposes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 SP  - 2021 -2025  

Universidad de los Andes   
 
   
 
Annex  
Monitoring indicators  
(Preliminary  information)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dream 1. A university 
that transforms lives and 
thus contributes to the 
transformation  
of the company.  Pillar 1.1. The University 
promotes social mobility, 
contributes to adequate 
labor market insertion.  
of its students and 
facilitates 
entrepreneurship.  
 
 
Pillar 1.2. The University 
promotes critical 
thinking , ethical 
reflection , and social and 
environmental 
awareness.  
 
 
 
 
Pillar 1.3. The University 
promotes lifelong  
learning  
and the ability to adapt 
to changing and uncertain 
environments.  • Student diversity  
• Percentage of scholarship recipients  
• Employment 
outcomes of 
graduates  
• 50 % growth in graduate  
students  
• Ethical competencies, critical 
thinking, communication, 
collaborative and digital work.  
• Impact of graduates  
• Programs with 
complementary 
competencies  
• Empathy  
 
 
• Number of COED  students  
• Diversity of COED  
students  
• 1000 COED  students 
completing at least one 
micro -credential  
• Percentage of COED  
students in formal program  
• COED  Student Loyalty  
 
Dream  Pillar  Indicator  
 
 (Continued)  
 
IDP - 2021 -202561  
Dream   
Pillar  
Indicator  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A university that promotes 
the well -being of all its 
members, pluralism, 
gender equity and 
diversity.   
Pillar 2.1. The University 
promotes, in its internal 
affairs, participatory, 
supportive and transparent 
decision -making.  • Sense of belonging to 
the community  
• Confidence in the University  
• Percentage of teachers 
participating in the elections  
• Percentage of students 
participating in elections  
 
Pillar 2.2. The University 
promotes an environment 
respectful of diversity, 
different life experiences 
and different views of 
society.  • Job satisfaction  
• Faculty promotion rates  
• Administrative 
promotion fees  
• Prevalence of MAAD  behaviors  
• University civic culture  
• Diversity of our population  
Pillar 2.3. The 
University promotes 
the well -being and 
mental and physical 
health of students,  
teachers and 
administrative workers.   
• Perma nent student 
wellness  
• Subjective well-being for 
teachers and administrative 
staff 
• Physical health  
 
 
 
 
 
 
A university that works to 
achieve a significant 
impact in the generation 
of knowledge , 
sustainability, democratic 
debate, proposals for 
reform and the 
construction of hopeful 
and inclusive narratives.  Pillar 3.1. The University 
works to achieve 
measurable impacts  
and sustainable in 
their immediate 
environment.   
 
• Complexity of the 
network with the 
surrounding community  
Pillar 3.2. The University 
works to achieve 
measurable and 
significant impacts on 
knowledge generation 
and artistic creation.   
• Impact of scientific 
production  
• Transfer growth  
• Impact vic products  
Pillar 3.3. The University 
cooperates with other 
actors, in academia and 
beyond.  
of it, to influence the 
democratic debate, 
sustainability, the reformist 
agenda and the 
construction of special and 
inclusive narratives.   
 
• Complexity of the 
national partner 
network  
• Complexity of the 
international partner 
network  
• Uniandino impact  
Universidad de los Andes   
 
Annex  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 
 
 
62IDP  - 2021 -2025  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

