International Strategy of Hokkaido University 
Toward the Year 2040  
Hokkaido University Global  Vision 2040  
December 2021  

 
1 
 Introduction  
 
 “Hokkaido University Global Vision 2040” has been prepared as a 
long- term strategy in the context of realizing my future prospects as 
expressed in “President’s P olicy: Aiming to be an Unparalleled  
University – Towards the Fourth Period of M id-Term Goals and Mid-
Term  Plan” on a global scale. Building upon the achievements earned 
in fostering internationalization of Hokkaido University, it intends to 
serve as a guideline in reexamining our positioning at home and 
abroad so that our efforts can be uni ted in tackling global issues. I 
would like to express my deepest gratitude to the faculty and staff members involved  in the u niversity for their precious contributions 
in formulating this  strategy.  
As is commonly known, “internationalization” of the unive rsity is no 
longer limited to a small number of specialists in international sections in the university. In an increasingly globalized society, it matters to every one of us in the u niversity, including faculty/staff 
members as well as students, and it is something we deal with everyday throughout our activities on campus at all levels. However, it may not be the most efficient way to pursue “internationalization” if 
we were to tackle global issues individually and separately. To this end, this strategy is designed in such 
a way that everyone involved would understand where Hokkaido University is heading to and what it is 
determined to achieve in the long- term, so that the efforts of all members of the university c an merge 
and become a driving force to strengthen internationalization of the university.   
It is my belief that Global Vision 2040 shall be considered as a guideline in order to further enhance the 
internationalization of research and education at  Hokkaido Univ ersity. While target goals and main 
activities to be focused on are explicitly indicated, the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) are purposely 
not mentioned. More efforts are dedicated to show the direction of the road ahead in a qualitative manner, 
as I bel ieve that it is our role to build a meaningful “virtuous cycle of knowledge” through which diverse 
people  can collaborate with each other and foster activities as flexibly and creatively as possible, 
especially in a period of great uncertainty.  
In this strategy , quantitative target goals of each theme and how those can be achieved are not necessarily 
specified  in detail. Rather, it is my expectation that the each of us concerned, together with diverse 
parties, would broaden the view and make creative innova tions, and tackle the issues in a more flexible 
manner, so that the target goals can be pursued and realized while making necessary adjustments when 
needed. I hope that it  would serve as a foundation in executing our activities during the F ourth Period 
of Mid-Term Goals and Mid -Term Plan  and eventually guiding us to formulate further target goals for 
the Fifth Period. It may not be an easy process, however, with the “strategic patience ,” let ’s move 
forward together.   
HOUKIN  Kiyohiro  
President  
Hokkaido Universit y 
 
 
 
  

 
2 
 Announcement of International Strategy: “Hokkaido University Global Vision 2040 ”  
 
 “Hokkaido University Global Vision 2040” intends to illustrate the 
strategic direction of the university for the medium-  to long -term 
future until 2040, taking into account the achievements earned  in 
“Hokkaido Universal Campus Initiative ” (hereinafter referred to as 
“HUCI”), a university -wide action plan that forms the core of the 
“Future Strategy for the 150th Anniversary of Hokkaido University”  
to foster internationalization . In formulating the strategy , 
approximately thirty  focus  discussion groups  have been held with the 
Facul ties/Schools and Research Institutes /Centers of the university in 
order to listen to and compile their first-hand experiences and views 
in the classrooms and laboratories, and efforts have been made to 
apply their suggestions  as much as possible.  Through this process, it 
became clear that the current situation and target goals of 
internationalization differ  depending on fields of studies, therefore  
issues need to be tackle d specifically  in each  field. Having this situation in mind, the strategy  has been 
formulated to clarify a common direction to aim for , and at the same time, to solve specific tasks. In that 
sense, I am confident that it has been successfully summarized wi th a focus on the practical and highly 
effective initiatives.  
Global Vision 2040 firstly defines three future visions which Hokkaido University aims to pursue as the 
year 2040 approaches and describes the practical initiatives necessary in realizing them.  To achieve 
those visions, the modalities to promote internationalization in the post -HUCI era in the university have 
been redefined, and two new sets of directions have been explicitly presented. The fi rst of which is the 
shift from “quantitative expansio n” to “emphasis on quality” in promoting research and education of the 
university so that achievements of HUCI shall be maintained in a sustainable manner. The s econd 
direction relates to the advancement of digitalization in education which has rapidly expanded around the world due to the spread of Covid- 19.  
Under those two new directions, the following four pillars of strategic goals have been formulated and practical initiatives have been set  for their realization . The f irst pillar relates to the promotion of a  
“virtuous cycle of knowledge” which aims to increase enrollment of international students in various 
degree programs. Strengthening development and resea rch capabilities of students at the university by 
fostering this cycle is in fact the cor nerstone  of this international strategy. The s econd pillar r evolves 
around the advancement of sending students and researchers overseas for study and research. More 
innovative study abroad programs utilizing online education and diverse intercultural co-learning 
education opportunities will be developed and promoted. The pursuit of sustainability makes up the third 
pillar. Given the history of the founding and its unique development, the university has gained strength  
YOKOTA  Atsushi  
Executive Vice President  
International Affairs, SDGs  
Hokkaido University  

 
3 
 in contributing to the achievement of sustainability and positioned it as the ultimate goal for the 
university in the Fourth Period of Mid -Term Goals and Mid -Term Plan . The fourth and last pillar relates 
to internal management issues of the university and the solutions designed to achiev e the target goals 
described in pillar s one to three. To maximize the appeal of the u niversity as a comprehensive research 
university of the new era, the university is determined to develop an internal environment and 
organization  to effectively  and sustainably support promotion of global activities such as recruitment  of 
international students for various degree program s. 
As is the case of  HUCI, this strategy also covers comprehensive issues including education, research , 
and community outreach . In this regard, it is my expectation that everyone involved in the universi ty 
will refer to this strategy as a guideline and utilize it for the purpose of advancement of a u niversity that 
contributes to resolution of global issues.      
       
 
 
 
4 
 International Strategy of Hokkaido University  
Toward the Year 2040 
“Hokkaido University Global Vision 2040” 
 
Introduction - Overview of International Strategy    
Background and Purpose of Formulation  
Since the Fiscal Year 2014 when the university was selected for the Top Global University Project 
by the Ministry of Educat ion, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), the university has 
set high numerical goals and implemented a variety of initiatives under the "Hokkaido Universal 
Campus Initiative" (hereinafter referred to as the "HUCI"), an action plan that forms th e core of the 
"Future Strategy for the 150th Anniversary of Hokkaido University ," the reform strategy leading 
up to the year 2026 which marks the 150th anniversary of the founding of the university. As the 
result  of these efforts, the university has made s teady progress in the internationalization of 
education and research including significant increases in the number of international faculty members, the number of international students from abroad, and the percentage of internationally co-authored papers. However, due to incre ased competition with major universities both inside and 
outside the country in addition to  the global COVID -19 pandemic, the nature of international 
exchange has changed significantly, and working toward a new form of internationalization for  the 
universi ty that differs from the past is an urgent matter.  
In response to the need to formulate an international strategy with long term views for education, 
research, and societal  collaboration expressed in the “President’s Policy: Aiming to be an 
Unparalleled Un iversity – Towards the Fourth P eriod of M id-Term Goals and Mid -Term  Plan” 
which was issued by the President Houkin after taking office in October 2020, this international 
strategy sets out the direction in which the u niversity should move toward a new form of 
internationalization under the strong leadership of the President. 
 
Target Year for This International Strategy  
The target year for the new internationalization of the university is  the year 2040 when the higher 
education advancement rate  is predic ted to become  80% and "the national universities will need to 
review their scales  and fields of study" according to the Central Council for Education of the 
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Report, the "Grand Design for 
Higher Education T oward 2040." This international strategy first targets  specific items to be focused 
on during the Fourth Period of Mid- Term Goals and Mid- Term Plan (FY2022 -FY2027) for national 
university corporations and then outlines what the long- term strategy shall be for the Fifth Period 
(FY2028- FY2033) and beyond on the premise that the content of this strategy may be revised as 
necessary based on the domestic and international circumstances in addition to other factors.  
 
 
5 
 Future of the University  
Aspiration s of Hokkaido University for the Year 2040  
  Hokkaido University aspires to achieve the following by the year 2040.  
Ⅰ. To be a driving force in contributing to the resolution of global issues through 
partnership and collaboration with people from diverse countries, regions and 
organizations , and in creating a thriving future society . 
Ⅱ. To be recognized as an unparalleled university by  contribut ing to the achievement  of 
sustainability with originality and excellence through global education and research in 
diverse fields grounde d in the history of the founding of the university , its unique 
development , and geographic characteristics. 
Ⅲ. To achieve an equitable and inclusive campus internationalization in which diverse 
students, researchers, and faculty /staff members  thrive and excel .  
 
In order to move toward I through III of the Aspirations of Hokkaido University for the Year 2040 
above, the university will ensure its internationalization over the long term by pursuing the following 
directions. 
 
Ⅰ. To be a driving f orce in contributing to the resolution of global issues through 
partnership and collaboration with people from diverse countries, regions and 
organizations , and in creating a thriving future society . 
 Develop Globally Minded Individuals who Contribute to Resolution of Global Issues and Enhance 
Research Capability  
・Create globally minded individuals who can pursue mutual understanding with people from 
diverse countries and regions with flexibility and open- mindedness and contribute to the 
resolution of issues on a global scale by providing education that serves as a foundation for 
cultivating the glob al perspectives necessary to partner and collaborate with people around the 
world . 
・Through a virtuous cycle of knowledge sharing from the world to the university and from the 
university to the world, develop globally minded individuals  and enhance research capabilities 
to become a key presence in the region and the world to pioneer a new era. 
 
 Partnership and Co -Creation with Society  
・Strengthen partnerships with diverse organizations in industry, academia, and government inside and out side of Japan, and comprehensively collaborate to solve regional and global issues and to 
facilitate the transformation into a thriving society.  
 
6 
 Ⅱ. To be recognized as an unparalleled university by contributing to the 
achievement of sustainability with originality and excellence through global 
education and research in diverse fields grounded in the history of the founding of 
the university , its uniqu e development , and geographic characteristics.  
 Contribute to Achievement  of Sustainability by Global Advancement of Education and Research in 
Fields w here the University Excels  
・In addition to promoting basic research , a core mission of the  university and an important 
breeding ground for innovation, contribut ing to the achievement  of sustainability by promoting 
applied and practical research in fields where the university has a competitive advantage will 
realize  a research -driven, international flagship university that attracts outstanding researchers.  
・Through basic and applied research that contributes to the achievement  of sustainability , provide 
an attractive environment for education in fields where the university excels, and develop 
globally minded individuals  who contribute to the resolution of issues in the local and global 
society.  
 
 Strengthen International Presence and Impact Centered on Sustainability  
・As a university located in Hokkaido which is inter spersed with a rich natural environment  and 
urban cities, we will  present and circulate our initiatives  and methods to the world for fostering 
an environment in which nature and humankind exist in harmony . 
・Actively advance research and education in fields where the university shows excellence  and 
spread  them effectively  inside and outside of Japan in order to strengthen the brand of the 
university  while partnering and collaborating with various stakeholders through the framework 
of international partnerships.  
 
Ⅲ. To achieve an equitable and inclusive campus internationalization  in which diverse 
students, researchers,  and faculty /staff members  thrive and excel . 
 Create a Multicultural Campus That Attracts Diverse and Talented International Students, 
Researchers, and Faculty /Staff Members   
・Improve  the education and research environment in order to attract diverse and talented 
international students, researchers, and faculty /staff  members, and establish a system that allows 
them to actively participate in  activities  on campus.  
  ・As a core university in the region, partner and collaborate with the community  to achieve the 
inclusive internationalization of the campus that contributes to solving regional issues.  
  
Promote  an Equitable and Highly Flexibl e Internationalization of the C ampus  
  ・Promote development of an equitable, high- quality place of education in a multicultural learning 
 
7 
 environment and facilitate the social mobility of diverse students. 
  ・ Increase the mobility of faculty and staff  members , enhance their cross -cultural understanding 
and international communication skills, and provide a campus environment that allows them to 
partner and collaborate with others with flexibility. 
 
To move closer to what we envision above with a long- term perspective, during t he Fourth Period of 
Mid-Term Goals and Mid- Term Plan , we will first implement the strategies described in the following  
for the internationalization of the university that draws on its strengths and characteristics, while keeping 
in mind the resolution of urgent issues we are currently facing.  
 
Redefining the Direction of International Strategy  
In implementing this international strategy during the Fourth Period of Mid -Term Goals and Mid-
Term Plan, we will redefine the way we have been advancing internationalization in the following ways . 
   
【Shift from "Quantitative Expansion" to "Emphasis on Quality" in Education and Research 】 
As stated above, since FY2014, the university has been implementing various initiatives with high 
numerical targets in line with the university r eform  plan, HUCI . Consequently , the number of partner 
universities, international students, internationally co-authored papers, courses taught in E nglish, 
overseas offices, and the Hokkaido University Ambassador s and Partners, along with other programs  
has steadily increased, and notable achievements have been made in many areas including the 
establishment of international graduate schools and educational programs targeted for international students. This is the fruit of various university- wide internationalization efforts to achieve the Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI) set under the HUCI with a focus on "quantitative expansion. "  
On the other hand, the MEXT subsidy project pertaining to the HUCI will end in FY2023, and the 
university will be required to make more effective use of its human and financial resources and needs 
to consider increasing the burden shared by each department . It is now necessar y for the university to 
set a new direction for the advancement of internationalization. 
Therefore, during the Fourth Period Mid-Term Goals and Mid -Term Plan ( FY2022- FY2027), the 
university will review various efforts to make them sustainable based on the results obtained so far 
through efforts under HUCI and shift the direction of internationalization under this international 
strategy to " emphasis on quality" of education and research,  which is the responsibility of a research -
driven  core university.  
 
【Advancing  International Strategy for Digitalization of Education 】 
Due to the COVID- 19 pandemic, international exchange efforts through remote and online education 
have quickly expand ed around the world. While the university is also rapidly digitizing educa tional 
content for its international education and other programs, we will further enhance the development and 
 
8 
 implementation of Collaborative O nline International Learning  programs, actively promote initiatives 
that take advantage of the benefits of remot e and online education, and make effective and strategic use 
of our limited resources.  
With regard to study abroad programs for students, especially for Japanese students, we will actively 
create online inter cultural co-learning  programs and increase the n umber of virtual study abroad 
opportunities that do not necessarily involve overseas travel, with the aim of broadening the base of 
participating students. We will also expand online education before and after actual travel and further promote hybrid study abroad programs that make more effective use of in -person and online education.  
In order to attract talented international students, which is one of the primary goals of this international 
strategy, it is important to strategically review existing program s and encourage international students 
who have studied through remote or  online education courses with expanded content  for overseas 
students to move on to the next step, which is to physically come and study in Japan. In addition, we 
will continue to further explore the digitalization of international public relations  to enhance  our 
international presence in the new era by actively disseminating our educational and research efforts online in the form of seminars, symposiums, or other events. 
 
Specific Strategic Goals That Become  Pillars For Medium -Term  
Given our vision for the year 2040 and its long -term direction s as shown in I -III above, we will pursue 
internationalization with the following four specific strategic goals as the pillars during the Fourth Period of Mid -Term Goals and Mid -Term Plan.  
 
1. A University That Promotes Brain Circulation  
Enhancing Human Resource Development and Research Capabilities Through a Virtuous Cycle of 
Knowledge  
We will further promote a "virtuous cycle of knowledge" in which the university acquires talented 
international students in its degree programs , they go back to their countries after having completed their 
studies and earned their doctoral degrees to acquire positions at universities or other institutions, educate 
the next generation of students, and encourage the following generations of students come to study at 
the university . 
. In addition, we will create the environment necessary to promote the acquisition of international 
researchers with outstanding research achievements, thereby enhancing the u niversity's research 
capabilities and international credibility.  
 
◆Attracting Talented International Students to Degree Programs ◆  
 Create degree programs  to promote the enrollment of talented international students and enhance 
financial support and support systems for incoming students for sustainable operation. 
 
9 
  Aim to e nhance human resource development and r esearch capabilities through a virtuous c ycle of 
knowledge in which students  who have completed their study and obtained their doctoral degrees  
then return to their home countries, acquire positions at universities or other institutions , educate 
the next  generation of students, and encourage the following  generations of students come to study 
at the university .  
 Strengthen recruiting activities by effectively utilizing the functions of overseas offices and 
programs such as the Study in Japan Global Network Project. 
 Focus on initiatives to promote the flow of talented international students accepted through various  
short- term study abroad programs and exchange programs in to enrolling  in degree programs at the 
university.  
 Expand opportunities for remote and online intercultural co -learning and promote initiatives to 
encourage international students who participate in them to study abroad in the future in degree 
programs at the university.  
 Establish the acquisition of talented international students as one of the primary objectives of 
international public relations and develop effective actions to achieve this goal. 
 When considering acceptance of international students, promote the implementation of appropriate 
screening and evaluation of overseas degrees and qualifications, and work to ensure security export 
control at the time of acceptance and throughout thei r time at the university .  
 
◆Encouraging Retention of International Students in Japan ◆ 
【Expansion of Japanese  Language Education】  
 Promote appropriate Japanese language education by accurately grasping the needs of international 
students on campus and reexamining the subjects offered in line with those needs. 
 Actively share the methods and content of Japanese language education with other universities to 
strengthen networks  and support the development of researchers  in the field of  Japanese language 
education in the region. 
 To attract talented international students, promote  Japanese language education by effectively 
sharing information with the outside community about the Japanese language classes offered in  the 
university as well as widely circulating  information related to relevant courses within the u niversity . 
 
【Promoting Employment and Career Support 】 
 Focusing on the retention of international students who have graduated or completed their studies 
in Japan, provide career support for international students by creating opportunities for internships   
and learning about Japanese corporate culture, developing an employment support system including 
interview coaching , and strengthening cooperation with local governments and local industries 
while ensuring the prevention of technology transfer and security export control  when they leave 
the country. 
 
10 
 ◆Creating an Environment for a Multicultural Campus ◆ 
【Improving the Support System for Acceptance  into the University 】 
 Improve support systems for international students and researchers including help with various 
procedures for acceptance  and for daily life in Japan.  
 In order to attract international researchers with outstanding research achievements, develop a 
compensation system and working environment that are internationally viable.  
 Strengthen  the system that enables the prompt circulation of internal guidance and information in 
both Japanese and  English in order to allow international researchers to actively participate in 
activities in the university.  
 Reinforce a comprehensive crisis management system for international students and researchers 
affiliated with the university including information  management for crisis prevention, development 
of a system for prompt information circulation , and enhancement of psychological care.  
 
【Improving Accommodations and Creating Opportunities and Spaces for Interaction 】 
 For the creation of a multicultural campus, in addition to exploring the development of 
accommodations for international researchers, secure accommodations in cooperation with private 
companies which allow international students  who are entering Japan for the firs t time  to live safely 
and comfortably. 
 Actively make  organic bases for co -creation by effectively utilizing cafeterias, dormitories, outdoor 
and other open spaces, and work to expand opportunities and spaces for diverse students and 
researchers to engage with each other.  
 
2. Students and Faculty Who Contribute to Resolution of Issues with Cultural 
Fluidity  
Develop an Appealing  International Collaborative Co -Learning Environment and Promot e Overseas 
Research for Faculty Members 
In anticipation of the post -pandemic era, while establishing  opportunities for  studying abroad in person 
as the ideal format, build  effective study abroad programs and expand the international learning 
experiences for students, especially for Japanese students, by taking advantage  of online education. In 
addition, accepting international students into the degree programs  will create a n attractive intercultural 
co-learning  environment where international and Japanese students can study together in classes and 
laboratories and be exposed to different ways of thinking that come from diverse nationalities and 
cultures. The goal is to creat e a space of co-learning that is available on a day -to-day basis on campus, 
and as a result, a virtuous cycle for the development of globally minded individuals with cross -cultural 
understanding, international communication skills, and problem-solving abilities.  
Having faculty members experience short -term, mid -term, or long- term research periods abroad at 
 
11 
 least once not only enhance s the research capabilities of individual faculty members in their fields of 
expertise but also help them  acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to accept international students 
by utilizing their overseas experience, thereby improving the research and educational capabilities of 
the university.  
 
◆Providing Appealing Study Abroad Programs and Diverse Co -Learning Opportunities for 
Students ◆  
 Upon reviewing the performance and effectiveness of existing study abroad programs, improve the 
efficiency of the system o f operations by organizing the function of each program , and establish a 
systematic study abroad program that effectively contributes to improving cross -cultural 
understanding, international communication, and problem-solving skills of participating students. 
 In anticipation of the post -pandemic era, actively create online intercultural co- learning programs 
in addition to in -person study abroad programs to develop an environment where students have 
intercultural co -learning opportunities without necessarily traveling abroad. Furthermore, expand 
online education before and after actual travel and  create hybrid study abroad programs that 
combine face- to-face education and online education more effectively. 
 By increasing the number of opportunities for international students and Japanese students to study 
together i n classes, laboratories, a nd other areas , enhance cross -cultural understanding and 
international communication skills and cultivate global perspectives.   
 Increase opportunities for interaction in the community, such as the international exchange between 
international students and local citizens or high school students, and the participation in 
multicultural projects in cooperation with the local governments  and various relevant organizations.  
  
◆Establishing a Mobility  System with Quality Assurance ◆  
 In order to strengthen our ability to engage globally, actively promote international collaboration 
and student exchange with quality assurance , including mutual recognition of credits, grade 
management, and degree  completion  with overseas universities that are strategically significant to 
the university and offer mutually beneficial outcomes while considering domestic and international 
circumstances.  
 Strive to enhance international collaborative programs among universities including  JDs (Joint 
Degrees), DDs (Double Degrees),  and Cotutell es, and promote the creation of a framework for 
quality assurance.  
 
◆Strengthening the Crisis Management System During Overseas Mobility ◆  
 In preparation for the post -pandemic era, review the university -wide overseas comprehensive crisis 
management system for students, faculty and staff members as necessary.  
 
12 
 ◆Creating Opportunities for International Experience for Faculty Members ◆  
 Develop short -, mid -, and long- term overseas research opportunities within the university in order 
to provide all faculty members overseas research experience at least one time. This will not only 
improve the research capabilities of individual faculty members but also promote the acceptance of 
international students in degree programs and strengthen the research capabilities of the university 
by utilizing their various overseas experiences in the education of international students. 
 
3. Pursuit of Sustainability 
Practical Contributions in Areas of Sustainability  
Given the history of the founding of the u niversity and its unique development, the university has 
continued education and research for many years in various fields related to sustainability. In addition, 
in 2005, the university established the Hokkaido University Initiative on Sustainable Development and 
created the university's first international strategy centered on sustainability. Since then, building on the 
concrete efforts to achieve sustainability through campus management and research in various 
disciplines including research utilizing vast fields , the universi ty has gained high levels of expertise 
enabling practical contributions in various fields of sustainability as a university that contributes to the 
resolution of global issues. As standard operating policy for the Fourth Period, the new executive board 
has recognized  global issues and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs ) to the same degree and has 
positioned contribution to the achievement of sustainability as the ultimate goal of the university, 
forming  the cornerstone of this international strategy.  
 
◆Promoting Research in Fields of Strength ◆  
 In order to contribute to the resolution of issues ranging from the local to the global scale and the 
achieve ment of  a sustainable society, globally promote practical or applied research including 
implementation of research findings into the society by lev eraging the vast geographical fields such 
as the abundant nature of the campus and research forests as well as the training ships while 
strengthening our basic research capabilities in the fields where the university excels. 
 Contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society by effectively promoting interdisciplinary 
and cross -disciplinary collaborative research and industry- academia collaboration utilizing the 
framework of international advanced collaborative research centers.  
 
◆Advancing Appealing International Education and Social Partnerships ◆  
 Develop and promote systematic undergraduate and graduate -level curriculums unique to the 
university in fields related to SDGs or sustainability while utilizing online education methods in 
order to develop globally minded individuals who can contribute to the resolution of regional and 
global issues.  
 
13 
  By taking advantage of  the university's vast and distinctive field resources and re search facilities in 
the forested, arable, and aquatic zones in addition to  the characteristics of the region, develop 
international collaborative education in fields of sustainability that leverages the university's 
strengths, thereby fostering young talented individuals and attracting international students. 
 Strengthen partnerships with international organizations, government agencies, local governments, 
businesses, and other institutions and create diverse educational opportunities to develop globall y 
minded individuals who contribute to the sustainable development of local and international 
communities and international cooperative efforts.  
 
◆Enhancing International Presence through Sustainability ◆  
 Utilizing international frameworks such as international consortiums in which the university 
participates and presidents' conferences with other countries, develop effective international public 
relations by proactively disseminating  the university's prominent efforts in the diverse fields of 
education and research related to sustainability and SDGs  oversea s, and enhance our international 
presence.  
 
4. Evolving Management  
Developing  the Environment and Organization to Improve International Adaptability  
In order to promote the cycle of knowledge, increase the mobility of students, faculty and staff  members , 
and advance education and research in fields of sustainability that are unique to the university as 
described above in one to three  of this international strategy, the university will develop an internal 
environment and organization to effectively support these efforts.  In particular, to  maximize the appeal 
of the university as a comprehensi ve research university of the new era, the university will work to 
create an environment and organization that support s the promotion of international activities , such as 
increasing the recruitment of international students into degree programs, in a sustainable manner by 
reducing the burden on researchers involved in those  activities in their respective departments, and also 
by creating an environment that enables them to  exclusively focus on international joint research and 
educational efforts . Additionally, monitoring of the key strategic objectives of this international strategy 
will be conducted for quality assurance , measures for periodic review s will be put in place, and the 
results will be used to improve or change the direction of th is strategy. 
 
◆Expanding International Reach Based on Strategy in Priority Regions and Countries ◆  
 Examine and analyze trends in international exchange and determine the key regions and countries 
with high strategic priority. Then, establish a system to ensure that the recruitment of international students and other international exchange efforts are effectively planned and implemented per the strategy and that the results are evaluated by experts for improvement. 
 
14 
  In order to respond to the changing international climate with flexibility, seek evaluations and 
opinions periodically from experts  both inside and outside the country on the strategies for and 
results of the priority policies established for each region and country. Reflect the information 
obtained in the university's goals from a medium - to long- term perspective while sharing the 
information w ith all related parties within the university.  
 
◆Promoting Strategic Collaboration with Partner Universities ◆  
 Promot ing effective and strategic collaboration with partner universities that can be reinforced  in 
terms of research and education, effectively taking into account mutual  strengths , based on the 
factors that the university emphasizes in the partner along with analysis of the exchange situation.  
 Advance  mutually complementary research collaboration with overseas universities that have 
strong track records in advanced research and bu ild strong and mutually beneficial strategic 
partnerships that will enable us to jointly obtain domestic and international external funding in 
respective fields  of joint research . 
 
◆Strengthening Analytical Function for International Exchange Efforts◆  
 Strengthen the data analysis function for trends in international student and faculty exchange by 
country, region, academic discipline , department, and other parameters in line with the university's 
digitalization efforts, and effectively utilize the data to achieve the goals of the international strategy.  
 
◆Enhanc ing Cooperation among University Departments regarding International Activities ◆  
 To ensure the smooth implementation of international activities, establish a system to promote information sharing within the university and strengthen cooperation going forward. 
 For the smooth advancement of this multifaceted international strategy within  the university, build 
a platform for circulating  and sharing the progress, activities, and good practices of international 
activities for each item . 
 
◆Expanding and Effectively Placing Staff with Expertise in International Operations ◆  
 In order to provide more flexible support for acceptance of international  researchers and students 
and implementation of international education programs  at the university , build a  system  of 
operations  that leads to the improvement of practical support skills and language capabilities for 
administrative staff by expanding opportunities to participate in training abroad or directly 
experience the operational support at international joint research activities overseas.  
 Further promote the effective and strategic placement of administrative staff who are engaged in 
duties in international operations.  
 Create a system for effective human resource management that fully leverages the talents of regular 
employee s and part -time employees  who have expertise in international operations and allows them 
 
15 
 to play an active role and contribute over the long term. 
 
◆Strategically  Utilizing  Overseas Offices ◆  
 Carefully examine and establish the functions and missions of the overseas offices as well as the 
geographical areas they cover , and create a system to efficiently promote their efforts upon 
reevaluating  matters of priority such as the recruitment  of talen ted international students, open call 
for international researchers, support for students sent abroad, information gathering on industry -
academia collaboration, collaboration with ambassador s and  partners, and effective use of overseas 
alumni networks.  
 Share the efforts of the overseas offices with the departments and research institutions  within the 
university and create a system that allows the university -wide,  effective use of the functions of 
these offices.  
 
◆Pursuing Strategic International Public Relations Efforts ◆  
 Strengthen  the collaborative system for  international public relations between each department and 
the entire university for the effective implementation of external communication in the areas of  
research and educat ion. 
 Effectively disseminate information on the university's world -class research and unique 
research /education efforts,  and promote international joint research, international industry-
academia collaboration, and recruitment  of talented  international students.  
 
In Conclusion  
This international strategy has been formulated to bring the university closer to its goals for the year 
2040 by primarily focusing on the objectives for the Fourth Period of Mid- Term Goals and Mid -Term 
Plan while reflecting on opinions from both inside and outside the university by considering the current 
status and challenges of international activities.  The specific tasks and schedule to be implemented for 
this international strategy will be prepared separately in the future, and each major task shall be carried 
out in cooperation and consult ation with the key departments responsible for implementation  as a 
university- wide effort .  
It should also be noted that this international strategy is based on the global climate and the 
circumstances surrounding the university as of 2021, and as such, it  will be revised as necessary per  
changes in the circumstances.  
