A STRATEGIC VISION FOR UC DAVIS


CONTENTS
Executive Summary  .............................. 2
Timeline  ..................................................... 4
Introduction  ................................................ 6
Goal 1 ............................................................. 8
Goal 2 ...................................................... 22
Goal 3 ...................................................... 32
Goal 4 ...................................................... 40
Goal 5 ...................................................... 48
Conclusion  ............................................. 54
Appendix  ................................................ 56
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS  contains an 
extraordinary breadth of disciplinary expertise that 
has grown and been nurtured over the decades. One 
of our enduring strengths is the community’s commit -
ment to collaborate and cooperate in research and 
education. Our success will rest heavily on our ability 
to leverage this great strength, identify priorities and 
build academic excellence. 
UC Davis’ strategic plan, “To Boldly Go,” out -
lines the aspirations and methods for guiding the 
university to new heights of distinction over the 
next 10 years. The plan draws on our responsibility 
as a public land-grant university and maximizes 
our opportunities as a driver of innovation and 
economic growth for the public good.
This document is the product of extensive 
input and discussion from UC Davis stakeholders 
around the world, including faculty, alumni, stu -
dents, staff and donors. The university received 
more than 900 ideas about how it can grow stron -
ger as a model of academic excellence, social 
mobility, diversity and leadership in addressing 
some of the world’s most pressing issues.
After analyzing all of the feedback, the Steer -
ing Committee identified five major goals to frame 
the plan. 
Goal 1: Provide an educational experience that 
prepares all of our students to address the needs 
and challenges of a diverse and changing world.
 ⊲UC Davis must evaluate its teaching methods 
and subject matter for undergraduate and grad -
uate education. Experiential learning outside the 
classroom through fellowships, internships and international experiences should be increased 
to better prepare students for careers. Consid -
eration should also be given to a wider range 
of classroom experiences, including online and 
technology-enhanced courses.
Goal 2: Enable and support research that mat-
ters at the frontiers of knowledge, across and 
between the disciplines, in support of a healthy 
planet and the physical and societal well-being of 
its inhabitants.
 ⊲UC Davis will leverage its interdisciplinary 
partnerships, identify the most promising areas 
of future research, create new research spaces 
and focus on investments to support these 
areas. Increased dialogue and coordination will 
be critical in advancing this goal. Advances in 
data science and “research matchmaking” may 
facilitate deeper partnerships between campus 
units and external organizations, including 
government and industry.
Goal 3: Embrace diversity, practice inclusive excel -
lence and strive for equity. Make UC Davis a place 
of excellence for learning and working by support -
ing a culture that values the contributions and 
aspirations of all our students, staff and faculty; 
promotes wellness and a culture of sustainability; 
and cultivates the open interchange of ideas.
 ⊲The vice chancellor of Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion will lead the effort to ensure best prac -
tices in all facets of campus diversity. Initiatives 
would explore ways to expand free expression, 
2
UC Davis Strategic Plan
multicultural engagements and diversity in 
recruitment of students, staff and faculty. 
Greater emphasis would be placed on address -
ing students’ financial and mental health needs 
and improving both the physical campus envi -
ronment and sense of shared purpose.
Goal 4: Support our community, region, state, 
nation and world through mutually beneficial and 
impactful partnerships that reflect a firm com -
mitment to our mission and increase the visibility 
and reputation of the university.
 ⊲UC Davis must increase its visibility among pol -
icymakers, industries, grassroots organizations 
and other stakeholders. Scholarship on issues 
of public concern will be key, and developing 
a formal UC Davis program in Public Policy is 
recommended. UC Davis can further leverage 
its proximity to the state Capitol by serving as 
a primary advisor for policymakers. UC Davis 
Health can also build on its many beneficial 
relationships throughout Northern California. 
Goal 5: Create an intellectual and physical 
environment that supports the development of an innovative and entrepreneurial culture that 
extends the benefits of our research activities 
beyond the boundaries of the university.
 ⊲As one of the world’s top public research uni -
versities, UC Davis must build on its programs 
that support innovation and entrepreneurship. 
Consideration should be given to creating 
incubator spaces that house collaborative and 
innovative projects. Aggie Square in Sacra -
mento offers significant opportunity to advance 
this goal by connecting UC Davis with the 
region’s entrepreneurs and business leaders.
NEXT STEPS
“To Boldly Go” is a living document that will result 
in broader discussions about how to achieve 
and sustain these five goals. A new committee 
or working groups will be established to develop 
an implementation plan, in consultation with the 
Academic Senate and other campus constitu -
encies, and to track and report progress using a 
series of metrics and benchmarks outlined in the 
appendices. 
3
UC Davis Strategic Plan
TIMELINE
               FOR STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS
Following the October retreat, Chancellor May in Novem -
ber charged a 22-member Steering Committee to design 
and assist in an inclusive process for seeking input from 
the entire university community, and to help in the review 
of that input and its organization into a strategic plan. The 
chancellor co-chaired this committee with Faculty Advisor 
to the Chancellor and Provost Ken Burtis; additional mem -
bers of the Steering Committee included:
 ⊲Kia Aliakbar, Chair, ASUCD Committee on Committees
 ⊲Nicole Baumgarth, Professor, Pathology, Microbiology & 
Immunology
 ⊲Eddie Bell, undergraduate student, Managerial Economics
 ⊲Lars Berglund, Interim Dean, School of Medicine, Professor of 
Medicine 
 ⊲Anthony Bulaclac, MBA student, Graduate School of 
Management
 ⊲Fadi Fathallah, Professor, Biological & Agricultural Engineer -
ing; AVP Global Affairs
 ⊲Dave Furlow, Professor, Neurobiology, Physiology & Behavior; 
Assoc. Dean UE
 ⊲Rachael Goodhue, Professor & Chair, Agricultural & Resource 
Economics; Chair, Davis Division of the Academic Senate
 ⊲Joel Hass, Professor, Mathematics
 ⊲Leah Hibel, Associate Professor, Human Development & 
Family Studies
 ⊲Alissa Magorian, Executive Assistant, Enrollment Management
 ⊲Pat Randolph, Academic Coordinator and Lecturer, Biological 
Sciences
 ⊲Susan Rivera, Professor and Chair, Psychology
 ⊲Mabel Salon, Director, Community Relations
 ⊲Rich Shintaku, Director, Diversity & Inclusion
 ⊲Elizabeth Spiller, Dean, College of Letters & Science; Profes -
sor, English
 ⊲Cecelia Sullivan, President and CEO, PTI Solutions
 ⊲Roy Taggueg, graduate student, Sociology; President, GSA
 ⊲Dana Topousis, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer
 ⊲Deborah Ward, Health Sciences Clinical Professor, Betty Irene 
Moore School of Nursing
 ⊲Maisha Winn, Professor, Education
 ⊲Jason Wohlman, Associate Vice Chancellor, University 
DevelopmentTHE DEVELOPMENT OF THIS PLAN  occurred over the period from 
October 2017 to September 2018. The first draft of the plan was based 
on input received from October 2017 to June 2018, at which time a 
preliminary draft was released for public comment. The final plan was 
developed after consideration of feedback provided from June to Sep -
tember 2018. Major milestones in the process are described below.
Planning began with a retreat on Oct. 10, 2017, that was 
attended by campus leadership and representatives of 
internal and external stakeholder groups. This retreat 
included three planning exercises focused on a consid -
eration of future trends that might impact the university 
over the coming decade, a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities, threats) analysis, and small group discus -
sions of a set of critical questions facing the university. 
Key findings of the SWOT analysis included:
Strengths:
 ⊲New leadership with Chancellor
 ⊲Diversity of student population
 ⊲Collegiality and excellence of faculty and staff
 ⊲Commitment to the public good and big issues that matter
 ⊲Great location between state Capitol and Silicon Valley
Weaknesses:
 ⊲Housing availability and cost
 ⊲Lack of faculty diversity
 ⊲Aversion to risk and change
 ⊲Aging physical infrastructure and lack of interdisciplinary space
Opportunities:
 ⊲Better leveraging location in the Central Valley
 ⊲Intellectual capital – ability to focus on health care and climate 
change as examples
 ⊲Leveraging technology in delivery of education (e.g. online)
 ⊲Workforce development
Threats:
 ⊲Private competitors moving into education market
 ⊲Lack of public transportation in region and I-80 congestion
 ⊲Insufficient state and regional support for university
 ⊲Failure to be creative enough to adapt to future
Also noted at the retreat were important areas the univer -
sity must address over coming years, including economic 
inequality and increasing polarization, changing work -
force needs due to demographic changes and technol -
ogy requiring lifetime learning, and the future impact of 
artificial intelligence.October 2017 November 2017 March 2018
4
UC Davis Strategic Plan
From November to March, the Steering Com -
mittee met as a group to design the process 
and to review input as it was collected. Mem -
bers of the committee worked individually or 
in groups to facilitate and receive input from 
over 50 meetings with specific constituen -
cies including students, staff, faculty, alumni 
and external stakeholders, in both small 
group and open town hall formats. Input was 
also solicited through the To Boldly Go web -
site, which received almost 900 comments 
by the end of March, ranging from short 
suggestions to lengthy proposals, from criti -
cisms of current practices to optimistic ideas 
for future actions, and from immediate action 
items to long-term visions of the future. The 
online submissions were reviewed by the 
members of the steering committee, who 
also contributed their own input, shared input 
from community meetings, and discussed the 
major themes emerging from all of the input 
received.
From March to June, a draft version of the 
strategic plan was developed with the 
assistance of the Steering Committee. In 
early June, this draft was posted online, and 
the To Boldly Go website was again used for 
soliciting feedback about the draft from the 
community; 150 comments were received. 
The draft was also communicated to the 
Academic Senate, not for a formal review but 
to provide an opportunity for the members 
of the Academic Senate standing commit -
tees, either individually or as a group, to 
provide input from their perspective. Feed -
back was also solicited from other specific 
constituencies, often in response to input 
received.Beginning in August, the final version of the 
report was developed for release in late Sep -
tember. It is important to note that although 
the report itself is final, the actual process 
of strategic planning will be dynamic and 
ongoing, as the campus moves forward in 
addressing the goals put forward in the plan 
while continuing to respond to both new 
ideas and changing conditions.
Next steps, beginning immediately, will 
include development of an implementation 
plan, in consultation with the Academic 
Senate and other campus constituencies as 
appropriate.  In many cases this will require 
either the charging of new work groups or 
the action of existing groups including the 
standing committees of the Senate to review 
the goals proposed in the strategic plan and 
to consider possible plans of action.October 2018 June 2018 August 2018
5
UC Davis Strategic Plan
INTRODUCTION
UC DAVIS IS A REMARKABLE INSTITUTION.  In just 
11 decades, it has developed from the University 
Farm of the University of California into a powerful 
comprehensive research university with unparal -
leled disciplinary breadth over 10 schools and  
colleges, including two ranked first in the nation, 
as well as the region’s only academic health 
center, UC Davis Health, a nationally ranked leader 
in health care education, research and patient 
care. With its commitment to academic excellence 
and scholarship in service to the public good, 
UC Davis is uniquely positioned to be an interna -
tional leader in addressing the most pressing  
problems facing humanity over the coming years. 
It is important to affirm and reaffirm the vision 
and values that all of us who comprise UC Davis 
uphold. It is also appropriate, periodically, to reflect 
more deeply on our institution and to articulate 
more specifically how we will advance our vision 
and values. Such a deeper and structured reflection 
has resulted in this strategic plan. 
Our university must be bold in envisioning our 
future; this plan has thus been titled “To Boldly 
Go.” The plan is forward facing, and like all such 
plans, builds on the UC Davis of today, including 
both our original campus in Davis as well as the 
UC Davis Health campus in Sacramento. One of 
the greatest strengths of UC Davis is the extraor -
dinary breadth of disciplinary expertise that has 
grown and been nurtured over the decades, in an 
academic environment characterized by low bar -
riers between colleges, schools and departments and a historical willingness to collaborate and 
cooperate in research and education. Our success 
over the next decade will rest heavily on our 
ability to leverage this great strength, working 
together in old and new ways to build academic 
excellence and achieve our goals, directing 
existing campus resources to our highest prior -
ities when possible, and finding new sources of 
support when necessary. 
This plan is focused at the level of the whole 
university and is not intended as a substitute for 
the academic and strategic plans of our diverse 
and complex schools, colleges, departments and 
centers; it is instead a plan to capitalize on their 
strengths and to encourage partnerships between 
them in addressing future challenges. 
The UC Davis of today is a university that — 
after decades of direct state investment that made 
the entire University of California the envy of the 
world — must now face new realities. The UC is 
still preeminent, and UC Davis among the largest 
and strongest of the UC campuses. Our strategic 
plan acknowledges the reality that our aspirations 
for the future, both immediate and more distant, 
can be realized only if we find ways to strengthen 
the base upon which we build our future. 
In this rapidly changing world, the campus must 
continuously adapt and evolve if we are to remain 
at the forefront of public education, and we must 
always be prepared to add new approaches or 
move on from older approaches as necessary. 
Change is constant, but our mission endures.OUR MISSION:  UC Davis is dedicated to academic excellence and scholarship in service to 
the public good. As a land-grant research institution, UC Davis takes a holistic approach in 
addressing the most critical issues faced by the region, state and the world. The university 
embraces the principles of diversity, inclusion and equity to sustain a culture of mutual 
respect.
OUR VISION: UC Davis aspires to empower our lifelong learners to be agents of their own 
career success, our transdisciplinary community of scholars and innovators to be influen -
tial in addressing the most significant societal challenges, and our staff professionals to 
be motivated to perform at the highest standards, all to enable the university to serve the 
public good, improve the quality of life, and act as an essential resource for the state, the 
nation, and the world.
6
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOALS
GOAL 1.  Provide an educational experience that prepares all of our students 
to address the needs and challenges of a diverse and changing world.
GOAL 2.  Enable and support research that matters at the frontiers of 
knowledge, across and between the disciplines, in support of a healthy 
planet and the physical and societal well-being of its inhabitants.
GOAL 3.  Embrace diversity, practice inclusive excellence and strive for equity. 
Make UC Davis a place of excellence for learning and working by supporting 
a culture that values the contributions and aspirations of all our students, staff 
and faculty; promotes wellness and a culture of sustainability; and cultivates 
the open interchange of ideas.
GOAL 4.  Support our community, region, state, nation and world through 
mutually beneficial and impactful partnerships that reflect a firm commitment 
to our mission and increase the visibility and reputation of the university.
GOAL 5.  Create an intellectual and physical environment that supports the 
development of an innovative and entrepreneurial culture that extends the 
benefits of our research activities beyond the boundaries of the university.
7
UC Davis Strategic Plan
EDUCATION IS UNDERGOING  rapid and extensive changes across 
the nation and around the globe. UC Davis must be attentive and 
nimble in its efforts to ensure that students enjoy an educational 
experience that is empowering and provides the best possible 
preparation for their future lives and careers. We must pay close 
attention to both how we teach and what we teach; and to both 
how our students learn and how well they learn.
Our undergraduate curriculum, consisting of general edu -
cation and major requirements as well as electives, forms the 
foundation. It is the responsibility of the faculty that comprise 
the Academic Senate. They are responsible for ensuring that 
our curriculum thoroughly prepares our undergraduate students 
to be informed citizens in a rapidly changing world with solid 
preparation in one or more fields. Knowledge in each field, 
and their various interfaces, is constantly expanding, so fac -
ulty are constantly revising course and major content so that 
UC Davis students can fully reap the benefits of studying at 
a premier research university, where their faculty instructors 
are pushing the boundaries of the known every day. When it 
comes to our general education requirements, comparable 
opportunities for updating present themselves. How can we 
best teach critical thinking in a world flooded with the flotsam 
and jetsam of social media? How can we best instill ethical 
principles and a deep commitment to diversity, inclusion, 
equity, human rights and social justice? Can we do more 
to foster creativity as well as the ability to work as part of a 
team? Then there is a growing host of literacies to master, 
from information to sustainability. These and similar questions 
are on the minds of faculty as they evaluate curricular matters.
In addition, there is rising interest among our students and 
their families in educational opportunities beyond the class -
room and experiential learning. These may include research 
experiences, participation in engaged scholarship, internships 
with industry, part-time employment, international experiences, 
involvement in student organizations, volunteer community 
service and other activities that lead to the development of life 
skills that optimally prepare students for success after gradua -
tion, no matter what their career aspirations. 
Our focus on the success of our students must begin at the Provide an educational experience 
that prepares all of our students to 
address the needs and challenges 
of a diverse and changing world.GOAL 1 ⊲
8 UC Davis Strategic Plan
moment of admission, through orientation and 
their initial introduction to the rigors of the research 
university, continuing all the way through graduation 
and their postgraduate careers as alumni. Finally, we 
can assist our alumni to close the loop of their own 
UC Davis experience by encouraging and enabling 
them to pursue lifelong learning themselves and to 
help mentor future generations of our students.
UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION
UC DAVIS ATTRACTS  and enrolls enormously 
talented and motivated students, and will con -
tinue to seek new ways in which we can bring to 
campus the most outstanding students from every 
background. We are proud of our reputation as 
an engine for social mobility. We have made great 
strides in understanding more deeply the degree 
to which our first-year students’ previous edu -
cational institutions — high schools for entering 
freshmen, community colleges for transfer students 
— have or have not prepared them to approach and 
complete our rigorous undergraduate curriculum. Over the next decade we will continue to seek 
approaches to pedagogy, advising, and student 
support that enable more students to achieve their 
educational, professional, and personal goals, and 
successfully complete their degree programs in a 
timely fashion, in alignment with UC systemwide 
goals to significantly improve the four-year gradu -
ation rate. This will reduce total costs and improve 
outcomes for currently enrolled students, while 
creating an opportunity for additional students to 
benefit from a UC Davis education. 
Our pedagogy and infrastructure must be opti -
mized to provide the best possible learning envi -
ronment for all of our students, using data-driven 
approaches that help us align teaching methods 
with appropriately designed classroom space and 
effective, well-supported assessment of student 
outcomes. Achieving this goal will require a per -
sistent and focused effort that will combine many 
approaches and require the coordinated efforts 
of many individuals and groups across campus, 
including staff, faculty and administrators from 
the schools and colleges, Student Affairs, and the 
9
UC Davis Strategic Plan
Office of Undergraduate Education. To achieve 
this goal, we will:
 ⊲Take bold steps to close gaps in academic out -
comes for students from underrepresented, 
first-generation and socioeconomically 
disadvantaged backgrounds.  Multivariate 
analysis of the academic performance of stu -
dent demographic groups reveals significant 
and persistent gaps in academic outcomes 
between groups in our university today. We 
must develop and implement innovative and 
targeted approaches in academic support and 
pedagogic practice, with a goal of improving 
the outcomes for all of our students and closing 
the gaps. Many approaches to improving the 
retention and successful graduation of our 
undergraduates were noted in the 2017 report 
of the Student Retention Advisory Committee. 
Subsequently, UC Davis has joined with many 
other leading universities in both the Transfor -
mation Clusters Initiative  of the Association of 
Public & Land-Grant Universities (APLU) Center 
for Public University Transformation, and the 
American Talent Initiative  to cooperate in find -
ing sustainable solutions to address this issue. 
An additional work group has been formed to 
focus on addressing the gaps in preparation 
existing before students arrive at UC Davis. Implementing a comprehensive, coherent, uni -
versitywide, data-based approach to achieving 
this goal will be the next step.
 ⊲Apply evidence-based approaches to improve -
ment of learning outcomes. To achieve the goal 
of improving learning outcomes for all students, 
faculty are constantly exploring and adopting 
innovative approaches to pedagogy, including 
methods that promote active learning. The avail -
ability of analytical tools that can quickly reveal 
the impact of new approaches on learning 
outcomes facilitates experimentation with ped -
agogy and the ability to make evidence-based 
decisions about teaching practices. Support for 
faculty interested in such methods is available 
through the Center for Educational Effective -
ness  (CEE) in the Office of Undergraduate 
Education, which works to support high-quality 
teaching and learning by prioritizing pedagog -
ical innovation and promoting key shifts in the 
way we approach teaching at UC Davis. Faculty 
who have already tested new approaches, 
including those whose research is focused 
on pedagogy in specific disciplines, are also 
an important resource. Given the key role of 
outcomes assessment in achieving this goal, it 
is important that the level of support available 
(e.g. the number of assessment specialists) be in 
Active-learning 
classroom at the 
Betty Irene Moore 
School of Nursing
10
UC Davis Strategic Plan
alignment with increasing needs.
It is important to underscore that many 
of these innovations instituted in order to 
advance student learning do not call for 
entirely new forms of pedagogy. In many cases 
they involve adjustments to and adaptations 
within traditional modes, from lecture and 
discussion section to lab session and studio 
critique. All of these have their place in the 
range of classroom experiences students 
should not only experience but should learn 
to derive benefit from. What is required is a 
focus on using appropriate pedagogy in each 
circumstance and an awareness on the part of 
instructors that elements that have often been 
previously unquestioned — for example, the 
way a syllabus is constructed or the use of a 
grading curve — need to be thought through 
critically and with an eye to the students we 
have in our classrooms today.
 ⊲Optimize classroom design and capacity for 
the future.  Enrollment growth has provided 
both a need and an opportunity to build new 
classroom space on campus with the future in 
mind. Classrooms will be built to accommodate 
new and experimental approaches to teaching, 
with maximum flexibility incorporated into the 
design to allow for active learning. The Betty 
Irene Moore School of Nursing provides a 
stellar example of such space, and there are 
currently plans, at various stages of realiza -
tion, for a new large lecture hall (California 
Hall) and new classroom buildings (Walker 
Hall; the Teaching and Learning Center) that 
are designed to accommodate these styles 
of teaching. Additional space for laboratory 
courses is also needed, as well as space 
for office hours and other teaching support 
functions. As we contemplate future needs for 
classroom space, consideration should also 
be given to the potential impact of online and 
technology-enhanced course delivery meth -
ods on classroom space requirements.
 ⊲Enhance the quality of the student academic 
experience in the classroom. Several strate -
gies are proposed to ensure that our students 
have the opportunity to benefit from meaning -
ful classroom interactions with faculty in both large and small class formats despite recent 
enrollment increases under the 2020 Initiative:
Faculty hiring will continue with a goal of 
achieving a student-faculty ratio that per -
mits all students to enjoy the best possible 
instructional environment, recognizing that 
achieving this goal will require substantial 
resources and that current ratios differ 
across the campus.  
Strategies to facilitate the participation 
of professional school faculty in under -
graduate education will be encouraged 
where appropriate opportunities arise, 
bringing exciting curricular possibilities 
and additional teaching capacity. Current 
examples include the major in Global 
Disease Biology (partnership between the 
College of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences and the School of Veterinary 
Medicine), and minors in Education (School 
of Education) and Technology Manage -
ment (Graduate School of Management).
Hybrid and online courses can potentially 
increase the time that faculty are able 
spend in high-value interactions with the 
students during class time, by reducing 
the amount of class time spent on lec -
ture-based content delivery.
 ⊲Support student success by providing better 
tools for administrative management of 
the curriculum.  Students interface with the 
curriculum in choosing courses, determin -
ing a schedule, registering for classes, and 
checking on progress to completing degree 
requirements. Student success depends on the 
technology underlying each of these interfaces, 
and major improvements are urgently needed 
to ensure our ongoing ability to serve students’ 
needs due to aging of current systems. Over 
the coming years, the goal will be to finish 
upgrades for the Banner system, the course 
catalog (which should have much greater func -
tionalities than the current version), the course 
scheduling system (which is struggling under 
current loads), the Degree Audit system (which 
if done well should reduce some workload for 
11
UC Davis Strategic Plan
advisers and enhance student success), and 
processing for graduation, which currently 
impacts some students who need verification 
of graduation to apply for jobs.
 ⊲Create a state-of-the-art library and learn -
ing center to support student learning.  As 
UC Davis’ student population grows, the need 
for modern study spaces co-located with 
academic support services is essential, and 
the centrally located Peter J. Shields Library is 
ideally positioned to support this need. Recon -
figuration and renovation of Shields Library will 
continue to provide on-site access to needed 
physical collections, while also adding new 
multimedia and technology resources, immer -
sive learning and research environments, and 
more spaces for independent and group study. 
An academic commons would feature flexi -
ble co-working spaces designed to support 
the many ways that students study today 
— whether “working alone, together,” or collab -
orating on class projects, or getting help from 
teaching assistants or library experts. Shields 
Library could also provide a point-of-service 
for a variety of campus entities that offer 
complementary student academic support 
(e.g., writing, tutoring, undergraduate research 
support), academic information technology 
services, and advice on data management.
By thinking creatively and progressively 
about the library’s multifaceted role in advanc -
ing the university’s mission, the university 
has an opportunity to enhance its support of 
student learning without detracting from the 
library’s enduring support of faculty scholar -
ship and research in all disciplines; moreover, 
many of the potential improvements are 
equally desirable to faculty and researchers.
 ⊲Support curricular flexibility and student 
preparation for future careers. A constant 
challenge for the faculty is ensuring that the 
curriculum offered at UC Davis meets the 
needs of our changing world, whether through 
support for and updating of existing courses 
and majors, or through creation of new courses 
and majors. The past five years have been a time of rapid change, in part driven by the influx 
of students under the 2020 Initiative. Several 
existing large majors have grown dramatically, 
including Computer Science (up 160 percent 
from 2012 to 2017), Statistics (up 317 percent), 
and Managerial Economics (up 91 percent). 
Further, we know that there is strong interest 
on the part of students (enrolled and pro -
spective) for areas related to these such as 
data science (possibly in multiple tracks) and 
business, to name but two examples. In recent 
years, faculty have also created, in response 
to new frontiers of knowledge as well as 
career opportunities, several quickly growing 
interdisciplinary majors such as Global Dis -
ease Biology, Cognitive Science, Sustainable 
Agriculture and Food Systems, and Marine and 
Coastal Science, and there is rising interest in 
other new fields such as robotics. Leveraging 
existing strengths and experience with inter -
disciplinary majors provides opportunities to 
develop unique curricula.
All of the above are strongly aligned with 
career opportunities, and we should take the 
opportunities to add such majors seriously. 
Our efforts should be rooted in student-cen -
tric principles, ensuring that the curricula 
we offer remain academically rigorous while 
addressing student interests, reflect societal 
needs in ways that optimize student success 
in finding rewarding careers after graduation, 
and prepare students for life-long learning so 
that they will have the flexibility to adapt in 
times of change. As we do, we need to reflect 
on our own processes and ensure that we 
address curricular needs in a timely fashion 
while maintaining academic quality and rigor. 
We are particularly challenged when majors 
are proposed that cross college and/or school 
boundaries. Innovation in the delivery of the 
curriculum as well as curricular development 
involve time and the investment of significant 
faculty effort and a commitment to the support 
of these efforts by the administration. As we 
strengthen our capacity in this way, we will rely 
on the deep tradition of shared governance.
 ⊲Enhance experiential learning.  Preparation of 
12
UC Davis Strategic Plan
students for future success can be significantly 
improved through high-impact experiences 
beyond the classroom, including research, 
internships outside of the university, and com -
munity or national and international activities. 
To enable more students to benefit from such 
experiences, UC Davis will increase efforts 
to ensure student access and participation in 
experiential learning as well as in impactful 
extracurricular and intercultural activities and 
experiences irrespective of their socioeco -
nomic circumstances, while providing sufficient 
advising and guidance to help students effec -
tively balance and integrate their academic 
and experiential learning.
Career-oriented internships are a particu -
larly valuable experience for college students, 
and UC Davis is fortunate to have the top 
internship program in the UC system, housed 
in the Internship and Career Center . Intern -
ships provide students with a professional 
network (also an effective means of meaningful 
alumni and donor engagement), confidence in 
career choice (an effective retention tool) and 
transferable skills (a competitive edge). With particular attention focused on the role of a 
college education in upward social mobility for 
many of our students, attention to career out -
comes has never been more relevant. Career 
and professional development services can 
complement academic disciplines, and help 
students translate and apply what they learn in 
classrooms to the world beyond UC Davis. The 
following actions are proposed:
The physical and staff infrastructure of the 
Internship and Career Center have not 
grown in proportion to increased enroll -
ment (including international students) 
and increased demand. Current and future 
needs should be explored and resources 
sought to bring capacity into alignment with 
need. The current space is not reflective of 
the caliber of UC Davis, and does not make 
a positive impression with employers visit -
ing campus. This may be an opportunity for 
philanthropic funding.
Consideration should be given to provid -
ing all students with a course experience 
UC Davis job fair
13
UC Davis Strategic Plan
like that provided in the Career Discovery 
Group  program, given the positive impacts 
demonstrated on student success. 
Consideration should be given to allowing 
internship units to count toward degree 
requirements. Currently, very few majors 
count internship units toward the degree, 
which may disadvantage students who 
depend on paid jobs to help pay for college. 
With an increased number of international 
students on campus, and an increasing 
number of domestic students who seek 
opportunities overseas, Global Affairs 
and the Internship and Career Center will 
partner in developing a more robust set 
of programs to help students find interna -
tional internship opportunities. 
Domestic and international alumni represent 
a critical resource. As friends of the university 
and potential mentors with real-world expe -
rience, network connections and wisdom to 
share, alumni should be linked to our current 
students in a much more comprehensive 
manner. Such experiences create a pipeline 
of future mentors, as those who experience 
the benefits of this assistance now will be 
likely to “pay it forward” in the future once 
they leave the university and move into their 
own careers. 
Students need access to real-world field 
and laboratory research experiences that 
can provide experiential learning related 
to complex problems. The Course-based 
Undergraduate Research Experiences  
(CUREs) program is one way of providing 
groups of students with hands-on expe -
rience in cutting-edge technologies that 
are part of ongoing research projects 
on campus in a scalable way, thereby 
increasing the reach of individual, facul -
ty-mentored undergraduate research.
Students would benefit greatly from oppor -
tunities in addition to the formal academic curriculum to develop skills and competen -
cies appealing to potential employers and 
internship sponsors. Continuing and Pro -
fessional Education (formerly the University 
Extension) has experience in doing this for 
nonmatriculated students, and can be a 
resource in helping, possibly in conjunction 
with the Library and/or the Internship and 
Career Center, develop and deliver these 
non-credit bearing but impactful learning 
experiences, recognized where appropriate 
by certificates or transcript notations. An 
additional approach would be to provide 
student access (or global campus access) 
to the Lynda.com  (LinkedIn) video library of 
technical courses, which provide train -
ing in skills relevant to students in many 
disciplines and might be used by students 
individually or by insrtuctors as an aug -
mentation to courses. Some colleges may 
choose to develop cooperative education  
opportunities for students in certain majors.
Exposure to innovation and entrepreneur -
ship should be available as part of the 
undergraduate experience. There are some 
outstanding opportunities already available 
(e.g., the TEAM lab in Biomedical Engi -
neering ), but the extant facilities require 
sustainable support to expand, and more 
“maker spaces” in different disciplinary 
areas are needed to allow a broad range of 
students to participate. Undergraduates will 
also have new opportunities to participate 
as researchers and interns in local research 
incubators. 
Faculty, the Office of Engaged Scholarship 
and Engaged Learning, the Internship 
and Career Center, the Undergraduate 
Research Center, Global Affairs, aca -
demic and residential advisors, peers and 
alumni will need support in expediting 
broad student involvement in engaged 
learning opportunities within and beyond 
the curriculum. This could include promot -
ing community-based student learning 
experiences by increasing opportunities 
14
UC Davis Strategic Plan
for students to build appropriate skills to 
participate in community engagement; 
developing experiential learning curricula 
in leadership development, cross-cultural 
understanding, and global learning to 
improve outcomes; providing resources and 
incentives for faculty to support student 
learning in community settings; and estab -
lishing a cross-campus locus of student 
coordination and support for community 
engaged learning.
 ⊲Engage all undergraduate students in global 
learning.  Humanity’s most urgent challenges 
are inherently global in scope — from respond -
ing to transnational migration and slowing the 
spread of international public health epidemics 
to addressing economic disparities around 
the world, fostering safety and security, and 
developing environmentally sustainable 
solutions for the planet’s future. UC Davis 
has a responsibility to prepare our students 
to live and work in this highly interconnected 
and interdependent world. We need civically 
engaged community members who can think 
critically and communicate effectively about 
resources and opportunities in global and local 
contexts, as they are often intertwined. We 
need employees and entrepreneurs who are 
prepared to navigate across different cultural, 
political and regulatory environments, and we 
need caring, curious, globally minded leaders 
who understand issues in cross-cultural con -
texts and work collaboratively to resolve them. 
Global learning will prepare our students to develop skills, knowledge, networks and atti -
tudes that will help them thrive in these roles. 
It is imperative that we provide our students 
many and varied opportunities to learn about 
the multiple cultures and histories around the 
world. For many this will involve the study of 
languages other than English, which should be 
strongly supported. The campus Global Educa -
tion for All initiative, which links collaborators 
across the university, is one important means 
to support this goal.
 ⊲Develop a strong first-year program for stu -
dent success.  UC Davis offers a broad array of 
experiential opportunities for new students. To 
achieve our goal of having every student be 
able to access and enjoy the benefits of these 
high-impact activities, a coordinated first-year 
approach should be explored. This will require 
that the full complement of existing programs 
of this type be assessed with respect to 
impact, overlap, and opportunities for syn -
ergy, so that investments can be optimized 
and leveraged. This could provide the basis 
for an integrated, first-year experience that 
would combine academic advising with the 
most impactful aspects of current programs 
such as Career Discovery Groups  (College 
of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences), 
the COHORT program (College of Biological 
Sciences), the LEADR  program (College of 
Engineering), first-year seminars , the First 
Year Aggie Connection s program (Student 
Academic Success Center), and living-learning 
communities  (Student Housing). One approach 
Global Education for All
15
UC Davis Strategic Plan
might include an integrated common first-year 
series of seminars including a fall quarter wel -
come to the research university, followed by a 
winter and spring experiential learning seminar 
and cross disciplinary “Big Issues” seminar.
 ⊲Continue to evaluate the possible roles 
of online education at the undergraduate 
level.   The value of online instruction at the 
undergraduate level continues to be a topic 
of considerable debate among faculty at 
UC Davis, but its use is increasing at many 
highly ranked universities, and it is important 
that continued attention be given to possi -
ble benefits under specific circumstances. 
Online courses designed to ensure adequate 
preparation for unit-bearing courses could 
replace workload courses and be available 
before the fall quarter, reducing delay in time 
to graduation and improving student suc -
cess. Likewise, online versions of impacted 
courses might allow students unable to enroll 
in regular versions to progress toward their 
degree without delay. Learning analytics are possible in some cases that allow determina -
tion of which concepts are most problematic, 
enabling assistance to be provided in a 
targeted manner. With an increasing number 
of nontraditional students, asynchronous 
online courses can provide access to courses 
that might not otherwise be available. Finally, 
future trends suggest movement toward a 
lifelong learning model in which students 
would return for additional coursework later 
in life, which could be easier in an online 
format. The discussion of possible options 
should continue, and careful attention paid to 
advances in this area by peer institutions.
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
EDUCATION
GRADUATE EDUCATION IS A CORE MISSION  of 
UC Davis and the primary means by which the 
scholarship and expertise of its faculty are passed 
on to succeeding generations and transmitted 
beyond the university to the benefit of society at 
16
UC Davis Strategic Plan
large. Furthermore, education of graduate and 
professional students is one of the major contribu -
tions of the university to the economic prosperity 
of the region and state, bringing the expertise, 
skills and passion for research students acquire 
at UC Davis to their careers in existing fields, and 
sometimes in catalyzing the creation of entirely 
new fields.
Graduate students and postdoctoral fellows 
are also major drivers of research and scholarly 
activity at UC Davis, and the quality of both is 
inextricably linked to the quality of our research. 
Graduate students also play a critical role in under -
graduate education as they develop their own 
skills in teaching and mentoring, both through their 
contributions as teaching assistants and their role 
as mentors in experiential learning opportunities 
in research. Postdoctoral fellows in turn mentor 
graduate students and undergraduates who work 
with them in laboratories and on other projects 
overseen by faculty.
The extensive constellation of research areas 
represented at UC Davis and the long campus 
history of interdisciplinary research in fields that are critical to addressing the most pressing 
issues facing society ensure that our graduate 
students will develop both depth and breadth of 
disciplinary knowledge and be uniquely qualified 
to serve society as innovators and leaders over 
the coming decades.
GRADUATE ENROLLMENT AND SUPPORT.
Given the quality of our faculty and graduate pro -
grams, and considering the many unique opportu -
nities for interdisciplinary graduate education that 
UC Davis affords, our graduate enrollment should 
reflect the value and impact that our students 
bring to the world. Desired graduate enrollment is 
often stated as a ratio in reference to undergrad -
uate enrollment, and often in comparison to peer 
institutions, but differing proportions of master’s 
and doctoral students and varying representation 
of different disciplinary areas between univer -
sities necessitate a more nuanced determination 
of appropriate enrollments for UC Davis, focus -
ing on the issues of student support and career 
options, as well as on the needs of society and the 
17
UC Davis Strategic Plan
university. Graduate enrollments will vary between 
disciplines and over time in response to many 
factors, including emerging fields and economic 
trends. In achieving desired levels of enrollment, 
we will be guided by our goals of fully utilizing 
the capacity of the university and its faculty to 
both train and financially support our graduate 
students, as well as ensuring that the students we 
graduate are well positioned for success in their 
postgraduate careers. In this effort, it is important 
to remember that some of our graduate students 
and postdoctoral scholars will enter careers 
outside of academia, and we must ensure that our 
students have access to external internships and 
similar opportunities to prepare for such careers 
(e.g. the DEB program ).
Graduate student support depends in complex 
ways on the availability of extramural research 
funding in different fields, the availability of univer -
sity and philanthropically supported fellowships, 
and the opportunities for employment as teach -
ing assistants, and differs between master’s and 
doctoral programs. Every possible effort should 
be made to identify additional funding sources to 
support growth in graduate student enrollment in 
the many disciplines where UC Davis can play an 
important role in filling society’s needs. Financial 
support packages that are competitive with peer 
institutions worldwide are necessary to attract 
top students to our programs, and essential for 
creating conditions under which our students can 
give full attention to their studies and research. 
The campus is committed to creating an envi -
ronment in which our students are competitively 
supported, through development and commitment 
of resources in support of stipends, research and 
teaching positions. Graduate Council, Graduate 
Studies, graduate mentors, graduate students and 
the provost must work together to align enrollment 
and support with campus goals.
The following strategies are proposed:
 ⊲Determine appropriate enrollment levels.  
Undertake a comprehensive effort to deter -
mine whether current graduate enrollment in 
each program is appropriate, using graduate 
program review and other information where 
available. This will include a comprehen -
sive review of student support to determine 
whether levels are sufficient and competitive 
with peer institutions, an evaluation of whether 
students are achieving successful career out -
comes, and any other parameters relevant to 
enrollment in individual programs. ⊲Ensure appropriate diversity in our graduate 
student population.  The diversity of our grad -
uate students should reflect the diversity of the 
population of California, and our enrollment 
efforts should reflect this goal.
 ⊲Increase offerings of master’s degrees.  
Given the unique strengths of UC Davis and 
its ability to train students who will play an 
important role in supporting the regional and 
state economy, the creation of new or larger 
master’s degree programs should be encour -
aged where appropriate, while recognizing 
that given current workloads, appropriate new 
investments in faculty and staff must be made 
to support these programs, many of which will 
be self-supporting degree programs.   
 ⊲Develop online master’s degrees.  We should 
explore the potential for using new approaches 
to learning, such as online degree programs, to 
reach student populations such as working pro -
fessionals who may lack a desire for or access 
to traditional degree programs. Advances in 
technology have facilitated an increased use of 
online delivery mechanisms across the nation 
in higher education. This still nascent approach 
has disrupted and potentially revolutionized 
both the pedagogy and business models of 
universities elsewhere and offered faculty a 
new way to teach students. Peer institutions 
have developed highly successful online 
degrees at the M.S. level with significant enroll -
ments, including of working professionals, with 
affordable tuition and high completion rates; 
this is a trend that UC Davis cannot ignore. The 
first online MBA at UC Davis is under develop -
ment  at the Graduate School of Management, 
and planning for other master’s degrees is 
underway in the Betty Irene Moore School of 
Nursing and the College of Engineering. There 
are many similar opportunities in other colleges 
and professional schools that can be seriously 
considered, potentially leveraging the exper -
tise of Continuing and Professional Education 
to develop the platforms required to deliver 
the curriculum developed by the faculty. By 
providing accessible education that caters to 
professionals focused on acquiring advanced 
knowledge in the workplace, online degrees 
possess significant potential to enhance the 
impact, reach, visibility and financial stability of 
the university. 
18
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Improve graduate student financial support.  
Financial support is a key issue of concern to 
many graduate students. Davis has a relatively 
high cost of living, and current stipends are 
insufficient in some cases to address those 
costs, particularly for students with families. 
This issue can be addressed from either of two 
directions, including:
Increased funding. Funding sources 
must be identified to bring income for all 
graduate students to competitive levels. 
Strategies to address this issue include 
prioritizing a major effort to raise phil -
anthropic funds for multiyear graduate 
education scholarships, consideration of 
reallocation of campus revenues toward 
graduate student support, and use of funds 
that result from creation of revenue-gener -
ating degree programs as a new source of 
funding for Ph.D. students in some disci -
plines in support of our educational and 
research missions.
Affordable housing. Construction of addi -
tional graduate student housing designed 
and/or subsidized to be available at rents 
compatible with the income of our students 
is underway. The current project under 
construction at Orchard Park  will include at least 200 affordable two-bedroom 
apartments for students with families, and 
any future projects should consider afford -
ability as a key aspect of project design. 
Indeed, the university must consider 
affordability, including living expenses, for 
all graduate students in the context of the 
regional housing market.
 ⊲Graduate program organization and course 
delivery.  Excellence in graduate education 
requires a strong curriculum of graduate 
courses. Several challenges, both recent 
and longstanding, have been noted for the 
impact they have on meeting curricular goals. 
Two distinct and parallel ways of organizing 
graduate education have evolved at UC Davis: 
departmentally based graduate programs 
and cross-campus graduate groups orga -
nized by discipline. Each model has benefits, 
but one aspect of the graduate group model 
has presented a long-standing challenge: 
Graduate group chairs lack the authority to 
independently assign teaching, depending for 
this on departmental chairs, who may face con -
flicting priorities. In many cases, this issue is 
resolved through cooperative approaches, but 
in others, particularly when the graduate group 
spans multiple departments and even schools 
and colleges, challenges arise. Also, in some 
19
UC Davis Strategic Plan
cases faculty hiring in areas required by the 
graduate group to cover curricular needs may 
not align fully with departmental hiring plans. 
Furthermore, the current campus budget 
model provides significant funding on the basis 
of undergraduate student credit hours, which 
creates a possible incentive for some chairs to 
assign faculty to teach undergraduate rather 
than graduate courses. 
A review by Ernst & Young of the budget 
model and budget allocation process has 
provided an opportunity to revisit not only 
the formulae for allocations based on teach -
ing activity, but more broadly, how monies 
are distributed at all levels, including within 
colleges and schools, and how undergraduate 
and graduate teaching needs might be best 
addressed in the model. The Graduate Council 
of the Academic Senate has recently provided 
recommendations for revisions of the current 
campus budget model that might assist in 
resolving the issue by further incentivizing the 
teaching of graduate courses.
 ⊲A new home for Graduate Studies and 
graduate students.  Our graduate student pop -
ulation is dispersed, and students have long 
expressed a desire for space where they can 
come together and help each other in address -
ing issues of common interest. On the Davis campus, a new physical home for graduate 
students, professional students and postdoc -
toral scholars is being created in the heart of 
campus through the Walker Hall redevelop -
ment project . In addition to providing space for 
student activities and the Office of Graduate 
Studies, the building will house state-of-the-art 
classrooms that can serve as living laborato -
ries in which graduate students can test new 
approaches to pedagogy. The need remains to 
determine how best to additionally support our 
many graduate students on the Sacramento 
campus, and work has already begun to move 
us toward accomplishing that goal.
 ⊲Support graduate and professional student 
intercultural and global learning.  Our stu -
dents’ ability to be effective leaders, teachers 
and problem-solvers will in part depend on 
their ability to collaborate across cultures 
and understand global systems that shape 
issues of concern to them. All graduate and 
professional students should have access to 
intercultural and global learning opportunities 
that reflect their aspirations, facilitate their 
ability to engage effectively with diverse pop -
ulations, and enable them to apply their skills 
and generate knowledge to address regional 
and global challenges.
Walker Hall 
redevelopment 
project rendering
20
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 1 METRICS:
 ⊲Student academic success, including degree 
completion and time to degree, for all demographic 
groups
 ⊲Postgraduation outcomes including career and addi -
tional degrees
 ⊲Graduate student enrollment and degrees awarded
 ⊲Student and faculty headcount; student-faculty ratio
 ⊲Status of classrooms: seats available and quality of 
space
 ⊲Training and career development grants and awards
 ⊲Percentage and diversity of students participating in 
global education experiences
 ⊲Percentage and diversity of students (undergraduate 
and graduate) participating in community-based learn -
ing before graduation
21
UC Davis Strategic Plan
RESEARCH AT UC DAVIS  is a thriving enterprise that involves 
thousands of faculty, professional researchers, support staff, 
postdoctoral fellows and undergraduate and graduate students, 
creating new knowledge and answering questions that inform 
and improve lives. One of the most remarkable aspects of 
UC Davis is the breadth and excellence of our research pro -
grams, including agricultural, biological, engineering, physical, 
and social sciences, the arts and humanities, veterinary and 
human health, management, law, and education. All of these 
occur on a vast campus, spread across multiple sites in Davis, 
Sacramento and elsewhere in California from the coast to the 
Central Valley to the Sierras.
The breadth of this research enterprise is a great strength, 
making possible an unparalleled diversity of interdisciplinary 
research opportunities. Our breadth also presents several 
challenges. These include efficiently identifying and leveraging 
interdisciplinary partnerships when the people involved are 
spread across multiple programs and places; and also identify -
ing the most promising areas of future research and focusing 
investments to support these areas, while still continuing to 
support existing programs that are important to our mission.
Significant campus investments and dialogue will be needed 
on an ongoing basis to identify the areas of research that will 
best position the campus for the future and that should receive 
the highest priority for investment. Among the highest priorities 
is the hiring of outstanding and diverse faculty in disciplines 
aligned with the university’s mission, including both hiring of 
young scholars at the cutting edge of their fields, as well as 
strategic hiring when appropriate of mid-career faculty who can 
bring leadership and strength to emerging disciplines. Resources 
must be identified or generated to ensure that we are prepared 
to support these areas of research with innovatively designed 
facilities and well-coordinated academic support mechanisms.Enable and support research 
that matters at the frontiers of 
knowledge, across and between 
the disciplines, in support of 
the health of the planet and the 
physical and societal well-being of 
its inhabitants.GOAL 2 ⊲
22 UC Davis Strategic Plan
STRENGTHENING THE FOUNDATION OF 
OUR RESEARCH ENTERPRISE
The major new investments that will be made 
to ensure that UC Davis continues as a leading 
research university will require a strong founda -
tion. With a portfolio of research buildings con -
structed over the past 80 years and contributing 
significantly to the large (>$1 billion) accumulated 
deferred maintenance backlog, and with research 
space operating in many cases near full capacity, 
growth in new research areas must be balanced 
with intentional and strategically placed invest -
ments in the existing research infrastructure. Both 
are essential; the university must continue to be 
at the leading edge of new and exciting fields of 
research, but this is only possible if the health of 
key existing research programs is sustained. 
Identify the highest priority capital needs to 
strengthen infrastructure.  Extensive planning 
over several years has identified the highest pri -
ority foundational investments needed to stabilize our existing research infrastructure. However, 
with needs exceeding current resources, this 
represents only the first phase of the process, and 
over the coming years, it will be critical to continue 
to evaluate and prioritize additional foundational 
investments. The current environment around 
funding major capital projects is complex due to 
the transition from an era in which the state was 
the major source of funding for these projects to 
one in which philanthropy, public-private partner -
ships and limited campus resources will play an 
increasing role. The process of determining which 
and how many of the proposed “base-building” 
investments move forward must be done in full 
consultation not only with faculty and research 
staff, but also with Development and Alumni 
Relations (DEVAR) and the Office of Government 
and Community Relations to ensure that every 
opportunity for developing outside funding in sup -
port of these projects is pursued and maximally 
leveraged.
Strengthen research support services.  Increased 
Chemistry Building 
built in 1965
23
UC Davis Strategic Plan
research productivity calls for well-coordinated 
investments in core facilities and services, 
including shared equipment cores such as those 
included in the Campus Research Core Facili -
ties (CRCF)  program overseen by the Office of 
Research, as well as other cores across campus. A 
recent example of significant investment in shared 
research support is the new cage wash facility , but 
an even larger investment will be needed to pro -
vide a new animal care facility commensurate with 
one of the nation’s largest and most diverse animal 
research and teaching programs. 
There is no doubt that investments in shared 
resources that serve multiple users are a more 
efficient use of limited resources than duplicating expensive facilities for individual research -
ers; however, considerable communal effort is 
required to ensure that the cores meet the needs 
of researchers and that there is a stable and suf -
ficient funding base to provide the most current 
technologies. 
Research computing, data management and 
cybersecurity play an increasingly important role 
in the campus research enterprise. Meeting the 
future needs of campus researchers in this area 
will require a strong partnership between the 
research community, the Academic Senate Com -
mittees on Research and Information Technology, 
and administrative units including the Office of 
Research, Information and Educational Technol -
ogy, and the University Library. No single one 
of these units can cover the entirety of research 
computing since it encompasses hardware, 
systems, data and policies that are inextrica -
bly connected. It will require all of these units 
working together to provide the deep expertise 
that will be needed to manage both the comput -
ing systems (whether basic, mid-range or very 
high-performance) and the wide range of data 
that must be stored as well as the tools needed 
for its secure use and access by everyone from 
non-experts to high-end users.
ACHIEVING THE NEXT DECADE OF 
RESEARCH EXCELLENCE 
The world’s most pressing issues (e.g., cancer, 
climate change, ustainable food and energy 
systems, migration, poverty, aging populations, 
inequality) are inherently interdisciplinary. Inno -
vative solutions arise through collaboration of 
experts from multiple disciplines and from multiple 
communities, including universities, industries and 
governments. UC Davis, with its great strengths of 
breadth across many disciplinary areas and culture 
of interdisciplinary research, is well-placed to 
make fundamental contributions. 
To leverage fully the power inherent in our 
breadth, we need to implement a new and higher 
level of coordination among our many programs 
and maintain flexibility in academic organiza -
tion as we adapt to changing needs facing the 
university in the future. Coordination requires 
comprehensive efforts to connect scholars with 
24
UC Davis Strategic Plan
similar interests but different perspectives or 
skills, and the financial, physical and administra -
tive support to grow these partnerships. Per -
ceived disincentives that reduce departmental 
enthusiasm for participation in projects that are 
housed in research centers or involve collabo -
rations with multiple campus partners must be 
eliminated. There will be hard choices to be made 
in consultation with stakeholders in balancing 
new investments and current programs, but there 
is no alternative to moving forward boldly if we 
are to remain a top public land-grant research 
institution into the future. Inspiring new programs 
with impactful goals will attract the funding 
partners necessary to move forward this decade, 
and the campus must be ready to move quickly 
and effectively to capitalize on these opportu -
nities. Through the creation of physical spaces 
and funding mechanisms for interdisciplinary 
partnerships, we will leverage our strengths to 
address the real and complex challenges facing 
our region, state, nation and world.
Coordination and recognition of new research 
opportunities.  UC Davis is already known as a 
university with relatively low barriers for part -
nerships between faculty from different depart -
ments and colleges, often but not always in 
the context of research centers and organized 
research units (ORUs) and supported by the 
interdisciplinary nature of many of our graduate 
programs. For example, our National Cancer Insti -
tute-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center 
is a paradigm for high-impact interdisciplinary 
collaborations, clinical care and community 
outreach that can serve as a model for how to 
leverage the power inherent in our breadth and 
to achieve a high level of coordination among our 
programs. Nonetheless, there is little doubt that 
many opportunities are missed; researchers may 
be unaware of potential overlaps in interest with 
researchers elsewhere on campus, or may lack 
support to pursue new opportunities. Strategies 
to address this challenge could include:
 ⊲Creating a support system to help campus 
researchers recognize new possibilities for 
collaboration and initiate partnerships.  The 
Library and the Office of Research can partner 
in developing a comprehensive database of campus research expertise that will support 
increased opportunities for collaborative proj -
ects. Developing this initiative campuswide will 
include enhancement of researcher profiles 
and collaboration platforms, as well as identi -
fication of physical spaces that could be used 
in initial phases of planning and developing 
collaborative groups. 
Advances in data science now allow for 
meaningful connections to be made quickly 
in a virtual setting. Once a relational database 
of UC Davis’ scholarly work has been created, 
intentional and personalized communications 
could be used to identify and catalyze interac -
tions between researchers who might produc -
tively collaborate but who are not aware of each 
other’s work and interests. Automated programs 
or human “research matchmakers” would identify 
and introduce researchers from across campus 
with common interests in emerging problems. As 
an example, cognitive psychologists, ethicists, 
social movement sociologists, agricultural econo -
mists, civil engineers, environmental law scholars 
and climate researchers might form a team to 
more effectively address important questions 
regarding more energy-efficient communities. 
Recognition and introduction of researchers 
with related interests is only a first step, and 
mechanisms to incentivize groups to follow 
through with in-depth exploration of common 
interests and collaborative research projects, 
potentially including space for pilot projects 
and seed funding, would be critical to realizing 
the full benefits of this approach. It is important 
to note that such a database could also be very 
useful in helping external partners in industry, 
government, etc. identify campus partners for 
productive collaborations.
25
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Providing seed funding, with the potential 
for continuing support, through the Office 
of Research. The initial phase of developing 
research partnerships would be facilitated 
with seed funding in the expectation that such 
projects would catalyze the acquisition of new 
extramural funding for subsequent phases. 
This will require identifying a sustainable and 
ongoing source of revenue, and further con -
sideration of the ways in which current budget 
practices involving distribution of indirect 
cost recovery funds impact interdisciplinary 
research centers. However, it is critical that 
funding be identified and dedicated to this 
purpose to maintain momentum and enthusi -
asm for interdisciplinary collaborations across 
campus. For example, just as disciplinary 
clusters receive staff assistance for commu -
nications, hiring, grant writing, purchasing, 
etc., interdisciplinary groups will need access 
to similar shared resources. Project support 
should sunset after a reasonable time period 
to ensure continued availability of support for 
newly emerging partnerships. 
New space for interdisciplinary collaboration. 
Currently, most space is designated specifically for 
departments and colleges. This approach can con -
strain interdisciplinary work by creating arbitrary 
physical barriers that sometimes impede the flow 
of information. To take on the grand challenges of 
the future and to be able to react quickly to new 
and emerging areas of interest, it is imperative 
that UC Davis create new research spaces, which 
will serve as a home for solving the most import -
ant problems of the day and will foster a culture 
of constant innovation, rather than becoming the 
permanent home of any particular discipline. To 
provide such an environment, the campus must 
secure the resources needed to construct new 
interdisciplinary research buildings with this pur -
pose in mind, and develop new governance pro -
cesses to manage and support an interdisciplinary 
and problem-focused building that serves the 
entire university rather than one school or college.
This represents an exciting new direction for 
the university; thinking about academic research space in a new way focused on shared inter -
est in a problem rather than in a specific disci -
plinary approach or department (one example is 
the Charles Perkins Centre at the University of 
Sydney ). This approach to research could catalyze 
further thoughts about the education of students 
around interdisciplinary preparation to work on 
complex problems rather than the more focused 
approach of traditional majors. 
Planning and construction of a major new 
building will be a long-term process. One way of 
accelerating and testing some of the approaches 
involved would be to begin with creation of some 
quickly realizable and relatively low-cost spaces, 
located around campus, providing opportuni -
ties to pilot, promote and facilitate experimental 
approaches to interdisciplinary research outside 
of traditional spaces on campus. One very rapid 
way of doing this initially will be to develop launch 
spaces in the University Library, of which the Data 
Science Initiative space already in operation is an 
example. A next stage would be to construct small 
interdisciplinary buildings that could simultane -
ously provide a home for tightly focused interdis -
ciplinary groups while providing an opportunity to 
experiment with ideas about design and program 
for the eventual large interdisciplinary building.
Inherent in the concept of these new facilities is 
that the focus of the programs housed there could 
evolve over time, as new teams of researchers 
emerge with ideas for collaborative projects, and 
new challenges emerge. There is no shortage of 
ideas for innovative ways to use new interdisciplin -
ary space; some proposals include:
 ⊲Brain and Decision Science: An innovative 
space that would bring together academic 
programs at the intersection of the sciences of 
human intelligence and artificial intelligence, 
to include psychology, cognitive science, 
data science, informatics, neurosciences and 
decision sciences. A related concept is Neu -
ro-X: a center for innovative, multidisciplinary 
investigation at all levels of nervous system 
function, from artificial intelligence to molecu -
lar neuroscience, from biology to psychology 
to engineering. 
26
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Fiat Lux: A nexus of innovation in the agricul -
tural, environmental, biomedical and social 
sciences at the center of campus, focused 
around light.
 ⊲World Food Center: A center devoted to the 
promotion of innovative, sustainable and 
equitable food systems through partnerships 
among the research, educational and outreach 
resources of UC Davis and consumers, public 
and philanthropic entities, and the agricultural, 
marine and food industries.
 ⊲Academic Drug Discovery: A center that would 
provide medicinal and analytical chemistry 
support as well as cellular and behavioral phe -
notyping for early stage drug discovery efforts.
 ⊲Environmental Health and Justice: A cam -
puswide research/outreach integrated initiative 
that would link environmental health (of land, 
air and water) to human health involving 
human ecology, law, medicine, public health 
sciences and engineering. One might think of 
this as the intersection of One Health and One 
Climate, or to use a phrase the U.N. and other 
organizations have adopted, Planetary Health. ⊲Disparities and Social Justice: A center that 
will take the lead in studying and understand -
ing the causes and consequences of growing 
disparities in the social, health, and economic 
sectors, and engage justice activism, advo -
cacy, art and politics to alleviate these global 
problems.
 ⊲X-Lab: An innovative experimental physics 
program for high-risk research unconstrained 
by disciplinary boundaries.
 ⊲Diversity Science Initiative. This initiative 
would organize multiple campus experts into 
a coherent universitywide program that would 
maximize interdisciplinary interaction, edu -
cation, and research into how people create, 
interpret, and maintain group differences 
among individuals, as well as the psycho -
logical and societal consequences of these 
distinctions. 
There is no doubt that an organized call for pro -
posals will add significantly to the list above, and 
the next step will be to organize a formal process 
to think about the initial themes for a building that 
can be the basis for generating donor interest. 
27
UC Davis Strategic Plan
Important components of a successful proposal 
would include attention to the university’s mission 
of research and educational excellence, and serv -
ing the public good. As such, these collaborative 
projects would not just provide innovative oppor -
tunities for cutting-edge research, but would also 
provide hands-on experiential learning opportu -
nities for undergraduate and graduate students. 
Problem-focused studies emphasize for students 
the value of collaborative work, teach students how 
to communicate across disciplines and perspec -
tives, and provide clear connections to experiential 
learning (e.g., internships) and life-long careers. 
Further, each project would optimally connect with 
industry, communities and/or policymakers. 
It is important to remember that the success of 
new interdisciplinary research programs is predi -
cated on the continued success of and partnership 
with the underlying disciplines. As noted above, 
we must continue to invest in the infrastructure 
(capital and otherwise) supporting these core 
disciplines for the good of all. 
New sources of support for research. UC Davis 
has reached record levels of extramural research 
funding from a diversified portfolio of sources: 
federal, state, foundation, corporate and phil -
anthropic. However, continuing to build on this foundation requires a continuous search for new 
funding opportunities, as we adjust to changing 
priorities and needs. Over the next decade, we will 
redouble our efforts to effectively support campus 
researchers in their efforts, with a particular focus 
on several strategies.
 ⊲The “Big Ideas”  campaign.  Exciting interdisci -
plinary research themes have been selected 
in the first round of competition that will be a 
major focus of campus development activities 
over the coming years. A call for proposals for 
the second round of “Big Ideas” is underway. 
Bold and ambitious proposals put forward will 
have the potential to garner generous support 
from current donors as well as donors who are 
new to UC Davis, attracted by the great strength 
we have in these areas. Our work in One Health 
is one example; another is our long-standing 
preeminence in creativity in visual arts as show -
cased in exhibits at the recently opened Jan 
Shrem and Maria Manetti Shrem Museum of Art  
that we hope can inaugurate an “Arts Renais -
sance” at UC Davis. In many cases, the “Big 
Ideas” are in support of concepts described 
elsewhere in this strategic plan, representing 
the inevitable intersection of campus priorities 
with the need to identify new funding sources.
The “Smart Farm” 
Big Idea
28
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Expand endowed faculty support.  At the heart 
of world-class universities are world-class faculty. 
Endowed faculty positions are decisive tools for 
attracting and retaining stellar faculty who will 
generate innovative research, educate future 
leaders and advance the academic enterprise. 
Securing philanthropic support for additional 
endowed faculty lines, across the disciplines, will 
play a significant role in the university’s second 
comprehensive fundraising campaign. 
 ⊲Diversify extramural funding.  UC Davis has 
reached all-time record levels of extramu -
ral funding from public and private sources, 
but opportunities still exist for growing and 
increasing the diversification of our research 
portfolio. The Office of Research will work 
with campus researchers to further develop 
our funding streams from industry engage -
ment, international partnerships, and federal 
agencies underrepresented in our portfolio 
such as the Department of Defense (nonclas -
sified research, including DARPA and ARPA-E 
programs), as well as continuing efforts to 
increase the number of large multi-investigator 
program grants beyond current levels. 
 ⊲Increase support for grant preparation.  Invest-
ments in the Interdisciplinary Research Support  
unit of the Office of Research have had a high 
return on investment and could provide a tem -
plate for further investments in units to support 
the output and success rate of applications for 
additional categories of extramural support. 
 ⊲Enhance opportunities for industry collabora -
tion.  Significant benefits in research support, 
and educational and experiential opportuni -
ties for students could result from increased 
partnerships with industry, but the complex 
nature of such relationships will require a 
well-supported infrastructure that manages 
issues such as sponsored research, intellectual 
property, technology licensing and philan -
thropic investments. In addition to supporting 
these relationships, it will be important for the 
campus to cultivate new relationships through 
the coordinated efforts of the campus offices 
that engage with industry partners.  ⊲Increase revenue from development of intel -
lectual property.  A consequence of increasing 
research partnerships with industry and sup -
porting faculty entrepreneurship will be new 
revenue from licenses and patents. Although 
difficult to predict, this has been a significant 
source of revenue in some disciplines on 
campus, and increasing the effectiveness of 
our support for faculty in such efforts could be 
a productive investment.
RAISING THE VISIBILITY OF BROAD 
AREAS OF RESEARCH EXCELLENCE 
ACROSS THE UNIVERSITY 
PUBLIC APPRECIATION  of the great strength and 
span of UC Davis’ research efforts in certain 
disciplines can be maximized by coordinating and 
better publicizing the activities of researchers with 
common interests who often reside in different 
academic units, including departments, centers 
and ORUs. Efforts have begun to address this 
issue: for example, the creation of the Coastal 
and Marine Sciences Institute, which aims to 
catalyze and foster innovative partnerships for 
discovering, understanding, and communicating 
science for effective stewardship of ocean and 
coastal environments in California and beyond; 
and the recently re-launched World Food Center, 
which mobilizes the research, educational and 
outreach resources of UC Davis, in partnership 
with consumers, public and philanthropic entities, 
and the agricultural, marine and food industries, 
to promote innovative, sustainable and equitable 
food systems. By drawing attention to and coordi -
nating the efforts of researchers across campus, 
these united groups are better able to synergize 
research efforts, increase access to larger scale 
funding opportunities from federal, philanthropic, 
and industrial sources, and increase the visibility 
of our strengths by drawing attention to the depth 
and breadth of our expertise in these areas. 
Next steps to advance this process include:
 ⊲Identifying all potential clusters of research 
excellence. 
29
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Choosing leadership for the clusters and 
working with these leaders to implement the 
process of coordination.
 ⊲Formalizing campus support for these clus -
tered groups, which in some cases may involve 
consolidation of resources already dedicated 
to individual programs. 
 ⊲Devising communications strategies to take 
advantage of these broad clusters.
The undisputed and often historic primacy 
of UC Davis in certain areas — including agricul -
ture and its many disciplines, the environmental 
sciences, veterinary medicine, to name the most 
prominent — is noted, in both internal and external 
communications, with such frequency that there 
is little time or space to recognize the excellence 
in humanities and the social sciences broadly 
speaking, not to mention some of the fundamental 
sciences. This is compounded by several other fac -
tors, from the relative ease of explaining the value 
of transformational or applied discoveries com -
pared to fundamental research in all fields, and the 
relative unfamiliarity the public has with grasping 
the research agendas of the humanities and arts. Next steps to address this challenge include: 
 ⊲Working in partnership with Strategic Commu -
nications to ensure public recognition of the 
totality of the research strengths of UC Davis 
that are made more visible through these 
efforts.
 ⊲Engaging in targeted programs to raise the 
awareness and appreciation of communicators 
with the research agendas and broader signif -
icance of work in the arts, humanities, social 
sciences, law, education and management.
 ⊲Elevating professional and public visibility 
with highly publicized research conferences 
focused on important social challenges, which 
would connect like-minded scholars from 
all disciplines potentially galvanizing new 
collaborations. These conferences would 
serve to solidify the region’s perception (e.g., 
policymakers, community members, public and 
private sectors) of UC Davis as a leader and 
“go-to” source for information on these topics, 
not least because the university draws on its 
diverse disciplinary strengths and the insights 
and energy that emerge from the dialogue 
among researchers in widely disparate fields.
UC Davis 
Interdisciplinary 
Graduate and 
Professional Student 
Symposium
30
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 2 METRICS:
 ⊲Research activity, including extramural 
awards by source, expenditures and 
publications
 ⊲Research space, including improve -
ments in both quantity and quality of 
space
 ⊲Major faculty awards and recognition
 ⊲Growth in interdisciplinary research 
projects
31
UC Davis Strategic Plan
UC DAVIS BELIEVES  that achieving our aspirations in teaching, 
research and service depends on the strength of a diverse and 
inclusive culture that creates access and supports success for 
our students, staff and faculty. From recruitment to commence -
ment for our students, and from hiring to retirement for our 
faculty and staff, we are committed to finding and implementing 
effective strategies for continuous improvement in addressing 
these goals.
IMPLEMENT THE 2017 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
STRATEGIC VISION
The campus has recently completed a Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategic Vision  that presents a broad plan of action with goals 
for the coming years, including a comprehensive set of recom -
mendations and accountability metrics. The recommendations 
in the Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Vision plan cover most 
of the strategies that UC Davis will implement to address these 
goals over the coming years, and include the following:
 ⊲Identify, attract, retain and graduate a diverse student body
 ⊲Identify, attract and retain a diverse faculty and staff
 ⊲Advance a climate that fosters inclusive excellenceEmbrace diversity, practice 
inclusive excellence and strive for 
equity. Make UC Davis a place of 
excellence for learning and working 
by supporting a culture that values 
the contributions and aspirations of 
all our students, staff and faculty; 
promotes wellness and a culture 
of sustainability; and cultivates the 
open interchange of ideas.GOAL 3 ⊲
32 UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Promote diversity and inclusion in all of our 
research, teaching, public service, and training 
on campus and in neighboring communities.
 ⊲Ensure accountability to diversity and inclusion 
efforts on campus and in serving neighboring 
communities
The vice chancellor for Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion will provide leadership for this effort. This 
newly created position includes responsibility for 
overseeing implementation of the strategic vision 
and ensuring sharing of best practices in all dimen -
sions of campus diversity, equity and inclusion 
efforts. A task force has also been established 
to coordinate UC Davis’ planning to become a 
federally designated Hispanic Serving Institution, 
or HSI. Recommendations on UC Davis’ HSI vision, 
goals and metrics will guide the next steps in this 
process.
RACE/ETHNICITY — UNDERGRADUATES, FALL 2017
■ African-American/Black: 1,127 (4%)
■ American Indian/Alaska Native: 231 (1%)
■ Asian/Pacific Islander: 9,874 (33%)
■ Hispanic/Latino/Chicano: 6,299 (21%)
■ White/Caucasian: 7,352 (24%)
■ International: 4,713 (16%)
■ Other or left blank: 450 (1%)
33
UC Davis Strategic Plan
SUPPORTING OUR CAMPUS 
COMMUNITY
We are committed to fostering a stronger sense 
of shared purpose and well-being throughout 
the entire university community. To support this 
goal we can:
 ⊲Create new programs to educate students 
about the nature and benefits of freedom of 
speech and free exchange of ideas. Diversity 
is desirable in all aspects, including diversity 
of opinion, and it is our goal to create a culture 
where students, staff and faculty uphold, 
defend and advance free speech rights and are 
able to express thoughts and opinions even 
when those are unpopular or controversial. 
 ⊲Provide more opportunities for staff, students 
and faculty to develop stronger support net -
works and familiarity with each other through 
organized events that bring people together 
from across campus and across the causeway. 
Examples could include social/cultural events, 
educational events where people share about 
their work, research and service, and orga -
nized community service learning projects.
 ⊲Encourage a culture of wellness on campus. 
One way to do this would be to leverage the 
expertise of the schools and colleges to offer 
public presentations on wellness topics (e.g., 
the extremely popular Mini-Medical School , 
which could be extended to healthy pets 
and even healthy plants, in the spirit of One 
Health). Such events, both in Davis and Sacra -
mento, will support the health and wellness of 
the entire university community, and would be 
a great opportunity to build community across 
the causeway and in neighboring communities. 
Another opportunity is to continue to build out 
a robust set of activities and programs that all 
university citizens — students, faculty, staff — 
could access, and to continue to develop the 
Healthy UC Davis program website. 
 ⊲Address the mental health needs of under -
graduate and graduate students  by ensuring 
that a full range of mental health and crisis ser -
vices are readily accessible to students, and that these services are provided in a timely, 
confidential and culturally sensitive manner. 
 ⊲Enhance the physical environment to better 
accomodate students, staff and faculty with 
physical challenges and disabilities.
 ⊲Expand the availability of convenient and afford -
able child care at the Davis and Sacramento 
campuses for students, staff and faculty. One 
strategy proposed would be to explore a stu -
dent-run business model to contain costs while 
providing student employment. 
 ⊲Improve the physical environment to improve 
safety, convenience and morale. Even if the 
campus backlog in deferred maintenance can’t 
be tackled all at once, the campus will under -
take a comprehensive project to “refresh” 
older spaces across campus to further contrib -
ute to a positive and productive environment 
for learning and work.
 ⊲Strengthen relationships and collaborate with 
local, community, regional, state, national and 
global partners to build outreach and recruit -
ment pipelines to the rest of the world.
 ⊲Encourage a culture of sustainability  and take 
pride in our identity as a green campus by 
continuing our pursuit of setting the global 
standard for environmental sustainability 
practices among higher education institutions 
through the actions of staff, students and 
faculty; from new building design, to staff and 
faculty participation in regional policy discus -
sions, through engagement programs such as 
the Aggie Green Pledge .
 ⊲Reduce our carbon footprint through updated 
waste streams, creative upcycling of post-con -
sumer materials and an increased reliance on 
renewable energy. By updating our transpor -
tation infrastructure in collaboration with the 
city of Davis, we can improve the accessibility 
and safety of biking to and throughout the 
UC Davis campus in order to minimize reliance 
on personal vehicles.
34
UC Davis Strategic Plan
SUPPORTING OUR UNDERGRADUATE 
STUDENTS
UC Davis is committed to promoting the success 
of its growing population of students from histor -
ically underrepresented and socioeconomically 
disadvantaged communities as well as those who 
belong to the first-generation of college students 
in their families. Reports from task forces charged 
to review affordable student housing, food security 
and mental health care  have been recently com -
pleted, and include reviews of existing programs 
along with recommendations for further action. 
In addition to recommendations adopted 
from these reports, we will pursue the following 
strategies: 
Addressing affordability.  With respect to the total 
cost of attendance, tuition is not always the most 
relevant variable, particularly for students in the 
lowest socioeconomic groups, since the UC Blue 
and Gold Opportunity Plan covers all tuition and 
fees for eligible California residents whose total family income is less than $80,000 a year. How -
ever, rising tuition is still a challenge for students 
from middle income groups (both domestic and 
international), and the additional costs of housing, 
food and books remain a challenge for students 
seeking to avoid graduating with a large debt 
burden. Strategies to address this issue include:
 ⊲Explore avenues for growing philanthropic 
support for student scholarships in conjunction 
with the university’s upcoming second major 
comprehensive campaign, with the long-term 
goal of widening the paths of educational 
opportunity and access.
 ⊲Redouble campus planning efforts to increase 
the supply and affordability of housing for 
undergraduate and graduate students.
 ⊲Develop and implement strategies to reduce 
food insecurity among our students, in addition 
to programs like The Pantry  and others men -
tioned on the Aggie Compass  website. 
UC Walks
35
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Encourage the development and use, where 
appropriate, of free, open-access text books, 
through increased campus financial support or 
release time for faculty willing to invest in creat -
ing such resources, and/or through promoting 
the awareness and use of existing open access 
resources such as LibreTexts , founded and 
directed by a UC Davis faculty member. 
Support for student communities. Students from 
specific underrepresented, marginalized and 
underserved communities benefit from access to 
spaces and people dedicated to their success, 
support and enrichment . The university is commit -
ted to ensuring that these resources are available 
to our students and will continue to look for ways 
to better meet their needs. 
Cultural awareness and inclusion.  Efforts should 
be made to incorporate wherever possible into 
both the undergraduate and graduate curricula 
and extracurricular experiences ideas that sup -
port cultural awareness and inclusion. With the 
university’s growing international and underrep -
resented minority population, it is important for 
all students to develop the skills to work with 
a diverse group of individuals, who may have 
different behaviors based on their cultural back -
ground and current family dynamics.
Summer transition program for transfer stu -
dents.  While many of the surrounding commu -
nity colleges operate on a semester system, 
UC Davis operates on a quarter system. Students transferring to the university from community 
colleges often experience a challenging transition 
during their first quarter at UC Davis. Instead of 
exploring research and internship opportunities, 
many are overwhelmed with the brevity of the 
quarter system and its associated requirements 
(e.g., closely spaced midterms). Transfer students 
would benefit from a robust transition program 
scheduled prior to the start of their first official 
academic year.
Supporting access and success for veterans.  
Efforts will be made to improve recruitment 
and success of veterans as UC Davis students. 
Approaches will include the building of strong 
relationships between the admissions office with 
counterparts in local community colleges with 
high veteran populations, consideration of ways 
in which to increase recognition of educational 
experiences that veterans have already finished at 
the time of application (for example providing the 
opportunity to test out of a class/course/subject 
of which they demonstrate sufficient proficiency 
based on prior experience in the military), and 
creation of a webpage dedicated to veterans on 
the UC Davis Admissions site.
Creation of a central testing center for accommo -
dating student needs.  There is a substantial need 
for a comprehensive, centralized service that can 
address the large and growing need for students 
taking tests with academic accommodations. The 
campus recognizes this need and has already 
established a task force to identify a solution. 
36
UC Davis Strategic Plan
SUPPORTING OUR GRADUATE AND 
PROFESSIONAL STUDENTS
We will enhance support for programs that 
increase the recruitment particularly of African 
American, Chicanx/Latinx, Native American, 
low-income and first-generation graduate and pro -
fessional students. Specific strategies include:
 ⊲Support and expand the new “ ENVISION 
UC Davis ” program to increase the diversity 
of the pool of graduate students and pro -
spective faculty. 
 ⊲Institute a more robust program for sharing best 
practices in recruitment of graduate and pro -
fessional students from diverse backgrounds. 
For example, the “Neuroscience Initiative to 
Enhance Diversity” associated with the NIH T32 
grant-supported Training Program in Basic Neu -
roscience has demonstrated particular success. 
 ⊲Explore factors that impact the acceptance of 
underrepresented minority students into the 
graduate and professional programs, such as 
the increased use of “holistic review” to offset 
possible effects of unconscious bias in screen -
ing applications and the role of the GRE and 
other standardized test scores in admission 
decisions. For example, the School of Nursing 
applied relevant educational research to deter -
mine that the GRE had no predictive value for 
student success and has not used this require -
ment in their admission process. UC Davis is 
leading a consortium (with UCLA and USC), 
supported by a $1.2 million grant from the 
Andrew Mellon Foundation, to develop new 
methods for the graduate admissions process 
that will increase equity and inclusivity. 
 ⊲Support the Mentoring at Critical Transitions  
program in the Office of Graduate Studies. 
 ⊲Global Affairs will work with graduate programs 
across the university to increase the pool of 
qualified underrepresented international stu -
dents via our Global Centers and by expanding access to fellowship funding. A comprehensive 
network of holistic nonacademic personal sup -
ports will facilitate their success.
SUPPORTING OUR STAFF
UC Davis will become an employer of choice and 
a national leader in hiring a diverse workforce. 
The Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Vision notes 
several strategies for increasing the diversity of 
our staff, where underrepresentation is particularly 
notable in management roles. Priorities include the 
development of better pathways for advancing up 
the career ranks, and providing more extensive 
training for leaders, managers and supervisors. 
 ⊲Staff advancement and retention.  Strengthen -
ing pathways for advancement for our staff will 
expand opportunities to develop the advanced 
skills required to be competitive for internal 
positions offered on campus. 
Expand and enhance Staff Development 
and Professional Services ’ offerings in 
order to support the acquisition of career 
advancement skills. 
Create broader opportunities for advanced 
training of staff by bringing the trainers to 
campus (rather than sending our staff to 
remote courses), and thus providing access 
to a larger number of interested parties. 
UC Davis Continuing and Professional 
Education might play a role in developing 
appropriate course series that would be 
accessible and available for staff.
Campus-funded global access to Lynda.
com would extend the benefits of this 
useful training platform to a wider group of 
staff than presently have access. 
Consideration should be given to estab -
lishing mentorship/sponsorship programs 
for underrepresented and diverse staff. 
Such a program would pair staff with 
37
UC Davis Strategic Plan
participating campus leaders for a devel -
opmental partnership in which knowledge, 
experience and skills are shared between 
the two in order to foster the staff mentee’s 
professional development and enhance the 
mentor’s perspectives and knowledge.
 ⊲Managerial and supervisory training.  It is 
important that our managers and supervisors 
be well trained in both management skills and 
cultural competency. Efforts should be under -
taken to create a culture of accountability, and 
360° reviews should be used more frequently 
in evaluating managers and supervisors.
Implicit bias training through the STEAD 
(Strength Through Equity and Diversity) 
program has been helpful in reducing the 
impact of unconscious bias in the hiring 
of faculty. Currently, all new staff supervi -
sors are required to take an implicit bias 
training, but this training needs to be 
mandatory for all supervisors and manag -
ers. The extension of STEAD or a similar 
program to committees involved in staff 
hiring, particularly at management levels, 
should be considered. 
Salary equity.  UC Davis commits to conducting 
a regular institutional pay analysis across occu -
pations by gender, race and ethnicity, reviewing 
hiring and promotion processes and procedures 
to reduce unconscious bias and structural barriers, 
and embedding equal pay efforts into broader 
institutional equity initiatives.
SUPPORTING OUR FACULTY
The Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Vision 
describes several strategies to help broaden the 
diversity of our faculty, both in recruitment and 
hiring of new faculty, as well as in supporting and 
retaining the faculty we hire. 
With respect to hiring, we are committed to the support of programs that increase the pipeline of 
diverse candidates and the adoption of practices that 
increase the possibility of successful recruitments. 
We will continue to support pipeline programs and 
partnerships including the UC President’s Postdoc -
toral Fellows Program  (PPF), UC Davis Chancellor’s 
Postdoctoral Fellowship Program  (CPFP) and the 
University of California – Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities  (UC-HBCU) Initiative; as well as 
programs that provide campus resources in support 
of faculty hiring related to diversity. These include 
the CAMPOS  (Center for the Advancement of Mul -
ticultural Perspectives on Science) and IRI (Impact 
Recruitment Incentive) programs to increase the 
pace of hiring of diverse faculty in STEM and non-
STEM disciplines, respectively. 
The campus will continue to develop a culture 
of accountability for diversity in the hiring process. 
This will include continued mandatory participation 
in unconscious bias training through the STEAD 
program for all members of search committees, 
and extension of this training to others involved 
in overseeing the promotion and tenure process. 
Deans, chairs and administrative personnel will 
be held accountable for ensuring the diversity of 
candidate pools at every stage of the search pro -
cess as well as their overall success in increasing 
faculty diversity in their units. 
The campus will also support and continue to 
develop programs that increase the retention and 
success of diverse faculty, such as CAMPOS, the 
Faculty and Academic Development  programs 
under the Vice Provost of Academic Affairs, and 
the UC Davis Launch Committees developed 
under the ADVANCE program. 
Many faculty of color turn to nonuniversity 
groups as partners for research and learning, 
based on interviews done as part of the Engaged 
Scholarship and Engaged Learning (ESEL) stake -
holder engagement process. Providing resources 
to faculty that engage diverse communities in their 
research and teaching can help support existing 
community engagement and allow faculty to scale 
up and sustain their efforts.
38
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 3 METRICS:
 ⊲Metrics from the Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Vision
demographics of eligibility pools, applicants, and enrollments for students
student persistence measures (e.g. second-year retention, GPA, progress 
toward degree)
distribution of financial aid and grants
demographics of availability, hiring pools and hires for staff and faculty
retention and turnover rates for staff and faculty
rates of advancement for all demographic groups
staff and faculty diversity
equity in salary
 ⊲Managerial and supervisorial training participation rates
 ⊲Campus climate and satisfaction (based on surveys including UC Undergrad -
uate Experience Survey, CUCSA Staff Engagement Survey, COACHE Faculty 
Engagement Survey)
 ⊲Progress toward meeting the goals of the UC Sustainable Practices Policy
39
UC Davis Strategic Plan
REINVENTING THE LAND-GRANT MISSION  for the 21st century will 
require greater visibility with policymakers, more powerful partner -
ships with NGOs and grassroots organizations, and meaningful 
engagement with stakeholders. Humanity’s greatest challenges 
cannot be addressed from the ivory tower or with top-down 
solutions. We need to meet these challenges head-on — on the 
ground, in the field and within the communities we serve locally 
and globally. Civic engagement, community empowerment and 
evidence-based decision-making — all arenas where UC Davis 
expertise can make a difference — will be critical to scaling up 
solutions to complex challenges like climate change and social 
injustice. Indeed, alongside our excellence in research and the 
extraordinarily broad range of undergraduate majors and graduate 
programs we offer our students, it may well be our commitment to 
the land-grant mission, and to continually updating it to meet the 
needs of society today, that most characterizes UC Davis.
ELEVATE EXCELLENCE THROUGH ENGAGED 
SCHOLARSHIP
Engaged scholarship  through research, teaching and creative 
practice that focuses on issues of public concern, and is devel -
oped in collaboration with diverse audiences beyond the uni -
versity is a hallmark of land-grant excellence. Engaged or public 
scholarship takes many forms, ranging from providing local com -
munities access to university resources, to organized research 
and intellectual pursuits that inform and shape public policies 
and debates, to scientific and technological breakthroughs that 
improve people’s lives. Collectively, these activities have impact 
at different geographic scales, across sectors, and between dis -
ciplines that improve the well-being of individuals, communities 
and the planet. Support our community, region, 
state, nation and world through 
mutually beneficial and impactful 
partnerships that reflect a firm 
commitment to our mission 
and increase the visibility and 
reputation of the university.GOAL 4 ⊲
40 UC Davis Strategic Plan
UC Davis is widely viewed as an engine of 
engagement through the many activities car -
ried out by individual faculty, students, staff and 
alumni. The collective impact of these actions 
will greatly benefit from an integrated and coor -
dinated approach that visibly supports, rewards, 
and communicates the value and impact of our 
public scholarship. There exists an opportunity at 
this juncture to elevate excellence by expanding 
the reach of engaged scholarship, both internally 
and externally. The Engaged Scholarship and 
Engaged Learning implementation plan currently 
under development builds on the Community 
Engagement Classification awarded to UC Davis 
by the Carnegie Foundation in 2015. This recogni -
tion, coupled with the recent arrival of Imagining 
America  on our campus, has created momentum 
that we can build on in the following ways:
 ⊲Establishment within the Office of the Provost an Engaged Scholarship and Engaged 
Learning unit, which will foster awareness and 
understanding of the value of engaged schol -
arship in the schools and colleges. The unit will 
coordinate communication that promotes the 
value of engaged scholarship; develop means 
of incentivizing faculty participation; provide 
training in community-engaged research and 
teaching for faculty who wish to build these 
activities into their extramural grants; and 
measure and assess the impact of publicly 
engaged research and learning through evi -
dence-based approaches.
 ⊲Creation of a recognition program (e.g., prizes) 
to further raise the profile of engaged scholar -
ship at UC Davis. 
 ⊲Development of a well maintained, highly 
interactive website for ongoing support of 
41
UC Davis Strategic Plan
community-engaged programs and projects 
to serve as a resource for campus faculty, 
staff and students as well as for members of 
the community, regionally and internationally. 
Better communication about existing activ -
ities and resources is an important strategy 
to support public scholarship and create a 
clear and consistent narrative about how and 
in what ways UC Davis is serving the public, 
including state, regional, and local groups 
from the public, private, and nonprofit sectors. 
This goal should be addressed in coordina -
tion with the creation of the research interests 
database noted under Goal 2 and the campus 
calendar website.
SUPPORT THE HEALTH OF OUR 
COMMUNITY
One of the best examples of a beneficial and 
impactful partnership between UC Davis and 
the Northern California region is UC Davis 
Health , which encompasses the UC Davis Med -
ical Center, UC Davis School of Medicine, The 
Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing and the 
UC Davis Physician Network. Combining ground -
breaking research with a 50-year commitment 
to patient-centered care, UC Davis Health has become a leader in transforming health care to 
address the needs of both current patients and 
future populations. 
Goals for the coming years include:
 ⊲Developing a well-trained, inter-professional 
workforce to deliver team-based health care 
for the future
 ⊲Ensuring access to health care services for all 
patients who need care, regardless of location, 
background or ability to pay
 ⊲Engaging our expanded communities, not 
just through health care delivery, but with 
preventive care, medical research, and 
community-based participatory research to 
increase wellness of the underserved and do 
our part to make sure societal funds are spent 
on quality health outcomes, rather than subop -
timal and expensive episodic emergency care
 ⊲Engaging patients as crucial stakeholders in 
designing future health care delivery models 
 ⊲Further establishing the UC Davis Medical 
Center as the hospital of choice for all of North -
ern California’s tertiary and quaternary care
42
UC Davis Strategic Plan
 ⊲Developing industry partnerships to bring cut -
ting-edge technologies to patients throughout 
Northern California and beyond, and continu -
ing UC Davis’ national leadership in remote 
health care through telemedicine
 ⊲Instructing providers in the proper use of artifi -
cial intelligence to improve health outcomes
 ⊲Developing health care providers, including 
doctors and advance practice nurses, with 
a passion for clinical care, a commitment 
to engaging underserved communities 
and advancing rural health with a focus on 
reducing heath disparities, and team-based 
approaches to medicine
 ⊲Creating partnerships to reduce health care 
disparities and deploy ‘wrap-around’ social 
services to patients who need them 
 ⊲Serving as a catalyst for broad-based UC Davis 
innovations that improve population health, 
such as transportation advances, cities of 
the future, nutrition and food science, smart 
apartments, addressing social determinants of 
health and moreEXPAND OUR ROLE AS A  
PRIMARY ADVISORY RESOURCE  
TO POLICYMAKERS
California is the fifth largest economy in the world 
and a bellwether for national policy. As an interna -
tional powerhouse in key research areas, including 
climate, water, agriculture, transportation, immi -
gration policy and health, to name just a few that 
intersect with the state’s most vital issues and glo -
balized economy, we already play an instrumental 
role in translating our expertise for policymakers. 
With our close proximity to the capital city, we are 
well-positioned to help shape evidence-based 
public policy. Strategies to fully leverage our 
competitive advantages in order to increase the 
visibility and impact of our expertise in service to 
the public good include:
 ⊲Developing a formal program in public policy. 
Such a program could serve as a focal point for 
policymakers to connect with UC Davis experts, 
for UC Davis graduate and undergraduate stu -
dents to do policy-related research with faculty 
and governmental experts, and for students 
and faculty to directly experience the interface 
between university research and the making of 
public policy. Ideally, this program would lever -
age the breadth and depth of campus research 
43
UC Davis Strategic Plan
by focusing not on policy in general, but rather 
on how the disciplinary expertise of UC Davis 
could be productively partnered with public 
needs to advance the public good. A long-term 
goal could be the establishment of a policy-re -
lated school in Sacramento that would offer 
unique degrees drawing on the disciplinary 
strengths of UC Davis. 
 ⊲Utilizing the database of campus expertise 
discussed under Goal 2 as a resource for those 
looking for policy advice on current issues. 
Similar to the matching efforts envisioned for 
developing new interdisciplinary collabora -
tions, a proactive version of this strategy would 
be to identify particular faculty with expertise 
most relevant to the districts of individual legis -
lators and work to develop a connection.
 ⊲Creating more formal opportunities for our 
UC Davis experts to give talks about their research in public forums in Davis, Sacra -
mento, Washington D.C. and at the United 
Nations, inviting legislative staffers, legislators 
and other key decision makers to attend. 
 ⊲Partnering with other UC campuses where 
appropriate to leverage common strenths and 
create advisory groups in areas of interest to 
key stakeholders. As UC Davis achieves HSI 
status, additional opportunities for engaging 
with the California Latino Legislative Caucus 
may develop.
 ⊲Partnering with alumni to expand opportu -
nities for our undergraduate and graduate 
students to intern with legislators and other 
community leaders.
 ⊲Creating video presentations by expert faculty 
on issues of current significance to be dissemi -
nated broadly in a multimedia marketing effort.
44
UC Davis Strategic Plan
SHARING THE VISION AND IDEALS OF 
UC DAVIS WITH THE WORLD
Visitors to UC Davis quickly appreciate the special 
nature of the university in its breadth of interests, 
collegial and collaborative attitudes, its focus on 
caring for the earth and its inhabitants, and its 
dedication to providing our students with the best 
possible learning experiences inside and outside 
the classroom. To ensure that our qualities are 
equally well-known beyond the boundaries of the 
campus, we must continue to strive to develop 
more effective means of communicating our vision 
to a wider audience. 
There is no single mechanism for achieving this 
goal, but the following strategies are proposed:
 ⊲Looking beyond the obvious. As noted above, 
we have done a great job of publicizing our 
top-ranked status in veterinary medicine and 
agriculture, but there are many other areas 
where the university has centers of excellence 
that should be recognized. We will increase our 
efforts to recognize and publicize our strengths 
in the humanities, arts and social sciences and 
related disciplines as well as in both funda -
mental and applied sciences, including primary 
and speciality health care, in ways that are 
authentic and meaningful to external constitu -
encies, and that add value to the degrees that 
we offer in many fields. 
 ⊲Bring disciplinary experts to campus. Our 
experience has been that bringing visitors to 
UC Davis is an effective method of impress -
ing them with the strengths of the campus. 
Hosting events on campus with leaders from 
specific fields thus can have a strong positive 
impact, and we will seek mechanisms to sup -
port faculty in finding the resources and space 
to organize workshops and conferences at 
UC Davis in areas of campus strength.  ⊲Leverage our 250,000 alumni worldwide. 
Every graduate of UC Davis is a potential 
spokesperson for UC Davis; efforts to utilize 
this resource will be essential to getting our 
message out. The more effectively we commu -
nicate with our alumni, and engage them with 
the ongoing activities of the university, the 
more effective they will be as representatives 
of the university. 
 ⊲Enhance our prominence in athletics. UC Davis 
student-athletes’ stellar academic and post -
graduation achievements have long been our 
signature competitive advantage in the NCAA 
Division I arena. Taking this leadership to the 
next level, we will establish UC Davis as the 
nation’s premier athletics program for produc -
ing successful student-athletes. As we continue 
to build a nationally competitive Division I pro -
gram, we will implement a systematic personal 
and professional development program that 
prepares our athletes academically and socially 
for success in their postgraduate careers and 
serves as a model for the entire campus.
 ⊲Maximize the effectiveness of our commu -
nications. To raise regional, national and 
international visibility, the campus will under -
take a major branding campaign, focused 
on key constituencies. Another aspect of 
both regional and international visibility that 
deserves attention is the development of 
our web presence in additional languages, 
including Chinese and Spanish, which might 
be particularly effective with parents of our 
increasingly diverse student body. 
Faculty play a very important role in com -
municating the excitement of their research 
programs to external stakeholders, whether 
as a part of development in speaking to 
potential donors, or as advisors to policy -
makers. Although most faculty are expert in 
45
UC Davis Strategic Plan
communicating their work through publica -
tions, it is often the case that they have some 
challenges in presenting their work effectively 
to nonexperts. Better preparing faculty for this 
role, perhaps with assistance from Continuing 
and Professional Education, might be helpful. 
Internal campus communications would ben -
efit from continued development of the cen -
tralized campus calendar into a sophisticated 
and personalized system to share information 
about university events and accomplishments 
with interested campus stakeholders, using 
targeted digital communication methods. This 
should be integrated with the faculty interests 
database discussed under Goal 2.
 ⊲Establish Global Centers overseas to enhance 
international collaborations in education and research. The international impact of UC Davis 
will be increased by the establishment of 
centers in key strategic locations worldwide 
through the Global Centers Initiative . These 
centers, whose physical footprint will be 
modest, will support region-specific strate -
gies based on our research with international 
collaborators, students moving to and from 
campus, engagement with international 
alumni, and connections with international 
organizations and institutions. As our interna -
tional student population and our domestic 
students who have participated in interna -
tional experiences complete their studies and 
travel throughout the world, they will serve as 
outstanding ambassadors and enhance the 
international visibility of UC Davis.
46
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 4 METRICS:
 ⊲Impacts of engaged scholarship on research partners 
and public policy (survey-based)
 ⊲Appointment of UC Davis faculty to regional, state and 
national policy advisory boards and commissions
 ⊲References to UC Davis in public media
 ⊲National and international university rankings
 ⊲Athletic success in both scholarship and sport
 ⊲Global activities in education, research and outreach
47
UC Davis Strategic Plan
UC DAVIS IS ONE OF THE TOP public research universities in the 
world. With strengths in both basic and translational research, 
the university is well-positioned to make substantial contri -
butions to society by translating the benefits of innovative 
research, including new products, new medical treatments and 
new technologies, into the public domain. Further benefits to 
society result from the cultivation of innovative and entrepre -
neurial attitudes and expertise that students bring to the work -
place and marketplace.
A major goal for the coming decade will be to build on the 
strong programs we have developed that support innovation 
and entrepreneurship among our students, staff and faculty. Of 
particular importance will be efforts to both extend the capacity 
and reach of these programs, providing access to all who might 
benefit, and to seek greater coordination of program activities 
across campus that support overlapping goals. 
At present, the major groups coordinating innovation and 
entrepreneurship activities at UC Davis are the Mike and Renee 
Child Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship , housed 
in the Graduate School of Management, which also hosts the 
Technology and Management minor ); the College of Engineer -
ing (Student Startup Center ); the School of Medicine ( Office 
of Entrepreneurship and Industry Alliances ); and the Office of 
Research ( Technology Management & Corporate Relations ). 
These, along with other programs, support a campus network of 
entrepreneurial activities listed on the Davis Entrepreneurship 
Network  webpage. 
The activities supported by this network of programs address 
multiple important goals: increasing opportunities for students 
at all levels to develop and apply a toolbox of intellectual and 
practical knowledge and skills that will support innovation and Create an intellectual and physical 
environment that supports the 
development of an innovative 
and entrepreneurial culture 
that extends the benefits of our 
research activities beyond the 
boundaries of the university.GOAL 5 ⊲
48 UC Davis Strategic Plan
entrepreneurship during and after their time at 
UC Davis, both through formal coursework as well 
as extracurricular activities; support for faculty 
and other campus researchers in developing their 
own knowledge and expertise in this area and in 
providing the necessary infrastructural support for 
those who engage in innovative enterprises any -
where from initial concept development through 
to the creation of startup companies; support of 
industry partners, whether regional or from around 
the globe, in finding campus partners, in navigat -
ing the university regulatory environment, and 
in locating space for joint ventures; and finally in 
advancing our commitment to regional economic 
and community development in alignment with our 
designation by the Association of Public and Land-
Grant Universities (APLU) as an Innovation and 
Economic Prosperity (IEP) University . 
A wide array of existing programs already 
support the goals mentioned above, and those 
interested in the details can find links to descrip -
tions of these excellent programs, several of which 
represent partnerships between multiple campus sponsors, through the websites noted above. 
Rather than providing a comprehensive list, we 
focus below on some of the major issues that must 
be addressed to advance each of our goals over 
the coming decade.
Support of students.  With rising interest in this 
topic among students, an important first step will 
be to develop a clear roadmap that can acquaint 
them with resources available and the best paths 
to follow, from coursework to extracurricular 
projects to employment, to develop their talents 
as innovators and entrepreneurs in ways that will 
support them over the length of their careers. 
As noted above, these resources are distributed 
across the Davis and Sacramento campuses. In 
many cases, programs designed to serve students 
from across campus are housed in a single school 
or college, but this fact may not be widely known 
to students outside of that unit; e.g. the Engineer -
ing 002 and 098 courses  that are open to all. A 
more coordinated central source of information 
and ensuring that advising staff across the campus 
49
UC Davis Strategic Plan
are familiar with the opportunities available will be 
key in supporting wide access and participation. 
The many student-facing programs offered by the 
Child Institute  and its network of collaborators are 
a major source of support at all levels, and should 
be publicized and supported as much as possible.
A second priority if programs are to serve 
increasing numbers of students will be to address 
the resource needs and scalability of programs, 
including the academic courses, extracurricular 
programs and physical spaces (e.g. the Student 
Startup Center  and TEAM  labs housed in Engi -
neering). Programs housed in single schools or 
colleges must be appropriately supported if they 
are to serve users from across campus, and efforts 
must be made to coordinate programs to maxi -
mally leverage campus and external investments 
while not diminishing creativity in the development 
of new approaches.
Support of faculty and researchers.  Translat -
ing innovative research by UC Davis faculty 
and research staff along the path from research 
discovery to commercial application can require 
assistance at many different levels. The largest 
source of support for these efforts is the Office of Technology Management & Corporate Rela -
tions  (TMCR), which works closely with campus 
researchers and innovators through the Innovation 
Access, Venture Catalyst and Corporate Relations 
offices; whose websites  describe the myriad forms 
of support these units provide. Additional support 
is provided by the Office of Entrepreneurship and 
Industry Alliances in the School of Medicine as 
well as other campus partners. 
With the overall aim of building a more robust 
culture of innovation and entrepreneurship at 
UC Davis, several goals can be identified. First, 
factors constraining interest and participation at 
an increased scale must be identified, and efforts 
made to encourage participation by publicizing 
activities of innovative faculty, staff, and students 
as well as university-affiliated startups and commu -
nity partners. Additional approaches could include 
expanding proof-of-concept funding, developing 
other seed investment funding mechanisms, 
enhancing research and development and incu -
bation spaces, identifying resources to support 
translational research and new venture formation, 
and collaborating with regional economic develop -
ment organizations and business support entities 
on discrete innovation-related initiatives.
UC Davis Health
Aggie Square
UC Davis 
Sacramento campus
50
UC Davis Strategic Plan
Connections with industry partners.  Mutually 
beneficial engagement with industry is important 
to both education and research, as discussed 
under goals 1 and 2. The Office of Corporate 
Relations , a service unit within the Office of 
Research, has the major responsibility for building 
and managing strategic industry partnerships on 
behalf of the campus, and does so in collaboration 
with many other units. For example, new corporate 
relationships may lead to new internship opportu -
nities offered through the Internship and Career 
Center. Likewise, research support can range 
from philanthropy to shared projects to standard 
research funding, engaging the efforts of Develop -
ment and Alumni Relations as well as the Spon -
sored Programs Office. 
Engaging with industry is a key aspect of 
extending the benefits of our research activities 
beyond the boundaries of the university. Increas -
ing industry engagement across campus will 
demand the continued development of infrastruc -
ture and a commitment to listen to the needs of 
current and potential industry partners to design 
effective and efficient service functions that 
promote partnerships that bring greater impact, 
investments and opportunities for the campus.
The development of appropriate physical infra -
structure is critical in taking entrepreneurial activi -
ties at UC Davis to the next level. Flexible incubator 
space will be needed in the vicinity of the Davis 
and Sacramento campuses to house collaborative 
and innovative projects involving researchers from 
across our schools, colleges and departments. 
These and other such collaborative workspaces 
can also provide an environment in which research 
staff from corporate partners can interact bene -
ficially with UC Davis faculty, and graduate and 
undergraduate students. Significant efforts should 
be made to accelerate the creation of these 
spaces, and to facilitate the participation of faculty 
and students wherever opportunities exist.
Obtaining seed stage funding for the criti -
cal transition from idea development and team 
assembly to the early startup and proof of concept stages can be particularly difficult for faculty; 
many lack expertise in this area. Investing the time 
necessary to identify investment capital sources 
and successfully pitch a proposal is also challeng -
ing to faculty, due to the simultaneous pressures 
of teaching, publishing and seeking support for 
their research programs. The development of a 
university-associated source of investment capital 
(perhaps involving venture philanthropy) is one 
idea that has been proposed; it raises some com -
plex legal and financial issues that will need to be 
carefully studied, but could significantly acceler -
ate progress in building a larger entrepreneurial 
community.
Support of economic development.  UC Davis 
already plays a recognized role as an economic 
engine of the Greater Sacramento region, both 
as a major employer and a major source of highly 
educated workers. Increased engagement with 
industry is another way in which the university 
could enhance its contributions to the local econ -
omy, by attracting industry and jobs to the region 
through technology-based development and 
cultivation of a welcoming infrastructure for univer -
sity-affiliated startups. A specific initiative, Aggie 
Square, is underway, but there are certainly addi -
tional opportunities that can be considered over 
the coming years. Goals will include strengthening 
our outreach efforts to companies in the region 
and beyond to cultivate relationships and ensure 
that they are fully aware of the opportunities for 
beneficial research relationships with UC Davis, 
as well as deepening our collaborations with 
regional economic development groups such as 
the Greater Sacramento Economic Council, Valley 
Vision  and the Sacramento Metro Chamber .
Creating a new interface between UC Davis and 
external partners in Sacramento.  The develop -
ment of Aggie Square  adjacent to the health sci -
ences campus of UC Davis will create a new public 
gateway to the university in Sacramento, and 
provide an interface between the researchers of 
51
UC Davis Strategic Plan
UC Davis and the entrepreneurial world of startup 
businesses. Aggie Square will be a collaboration 
between UC Davis, the city of Sacramento, and the 
business community to establish a live/learn/work/
play innovation ecosystem that facilitates eco -
nomic development by easing the transition from 
the laboratory to the marketplace. 
Aggie Square includes within its vision all five 
goals of the strategic plan: contributing to the 
education of our students, supporting the research 
enterprise, engaging with the local community, 
raising the visibility of UC Davis and advancing 
innovation and entrepreneurialism.
 ⊲Education. Students at all levels will benefit 
from programs at Aggie Square. One possi -
bility to be discussed will be the development 
of a “Quarter Away” at Aggie Square, in 
which undergraduate students might spend 
an academic quarter participating in prob -
lem-based interdisciplinary programs taught 
in Sacramento that both count toward comple -
tion of their major requirements while taking 
advantage of the opportunities available 
there to engage with, variously, the adjacent 
communities, including local neighborhoods, 
the Sacramento region, the state government, 
UC Davis Health, and industrial partners. 
 ⊲Research. Aggie Square may host incubator/
accelerator space and collaborative space for 
research. Its collaborative nature will open up 
opportunities on both sides: Companies could 
more easily develop partnerships with faculty 
and graduate students to conduct research, and students could have better access to 
internships and jobs with the companies 
located there and the communities located 
nearby. Aggie Square will also serve as a cat -
alyst for translating research discoveries from 
UC Davis into the public domain, and regional 
interests and needs into new research.
 ⊲Community. It is anticipated that in addition to 
academic and research space, Aggie Square 
may include housing, health care, retail, art and 
music venues, and more. It may also provide 
a home for community-focused engaged 
scholarship, opportunities for local residents 
to interact with university programs and job 
opportunities for community members. 
 ⊲Impact and visibility. As a new public face of 
the university, Aggie Square will present many 
opportunities for mutually beneficial interac -
tions between the faculty, staff and students of 
UC Davis and the public. UC Davis Health has 
been a high-impact, highly visible partner with 
Sacramento for many years, and Aggie Square 
will add a new dimension to this relationship. 
 ⊲Innovation and entrepreneurship. As noted 
above, UC Davis is committed to developing 
a stronger culture of innovation and entrepre -
neurialism across both the Sacramento and 
Davis campuses, and Aggie Square will serve 
as an important laboratory for the further 
development of this culture, building bridges 
between the research programs in Davis and 
Sacramento and the local business community. 
Sacramento Mayor  
Darrell Steinberg ’84
52
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 5 METRICS:
 ⊲Student participation in relevant courses and extracur -
ricular programs
 ⊲Faculty involvement in entrepreneurial activities 
 ⊲Startup companies involving faculty, staff, postdocs, 
graduate and undergraduate students
 ⊲Extramural investments in innovation and 
entrepreneurship
 ⊲Space dedicated to innovation activities
 ⊲Number of industrial partners
 ⊲Intellectual property developed, including numbers of 
patents and licenses
 ⊲Revenue generated from entrepreneurial activities by 
category (e.g. startups, licensing, equity, royalties)
53
UC Davis Strategic Plan
TO BOLDLY GO …
IN THE CONTEXT OF HIGHER EDUCATION,  what is the meaning of the phrase 
“to boldly go” (borrowed with a smile from Star Trek ) at a time when we strive 
to fulfill societal aspirations for broad access to excellence through a public 
research university education while endeavoring to address the world’s 
greatest challenges through our research?  It is a call to think about how we 
can and not why we can’t, and to step out of our comfort zones in addressing 
the future. 
“To Boldly Go” captures high-level themes and aspirations of the UC Davis 
community, as well as the outlines of strategies that will be followed over the 
next 10 years to address these themes. Our planning reflects both the dis -
tinctive strengths that make us who we are today and our aspirations for the 
future as we reach higher and dig deeper in pursuit of our collective vision. 
Our core mission as a top-tier public land-grant research university — advanc -
ing the greater public good through the creation, application and dissemina -
tion of knowledge — is enduring, but our strategies for pursuing this mission 
must continually evolve. We must find ways to effectively use the competitive 
advantage that arises from our breadth of disciplinary expertise in discover -
ing new ways to solve the world’s challenges. Our plans for the future should 
be definitive in pointing the way forward, but flexible enough to adapt and 
respond to changing societal needs, and nimble enough to seize unexpected 
opportunities. 
This document provides a starting point, first for a richer discussion of the 
proposals set forth over the coming months, and then as a guide for assess -
ing our progress in achieving these goals. UC Davis is a constantly evolving 
university that is committed to leading the way forward in a rapidly changing 
world. As we prepare to set this plan in motion, we invite the continued input 
and engagement of the extended UC Davis community — faculty, students, 
staff, alumni, university friends, partners and other key stakeholders around 
the world — to think about and contribute to our goals and actions over the 
next decade. We welcome you to join us in changing the world.
Engage!
54 UC Davis Strategic Plan
55 UC Davis Strategic Plan
APPENDIX
GOAL 1.  Provide an educational experience that prepares all 
of our students to address the needs and challenges of a 
diverse and changing world.
6-Yr Grad Rate
(2018)Pell/Non-Pell 6-Yr Grad Rate 
Gap (2018)
Virginia 95% UCB 3%
Michigan 92% Virginia 4%
UCB 91% UCR 4%
UCLA 91% UCSC 4%
UNC-Chapel Hill 91% Boston Univ. 4%
Florida 88% Florida 5%
Boston Univ. 87% UC Davis 5%
Wisconsin 87% UCI 5%
UCSB 86% UCLA 5%
Georgia 85% UCSD 5%
Georgia Tech 85% UNC-Chapel Hill 5%
Illinois 85% NYU 6%
UC Davis 85% U. of Washington 6%
UCI 85% Michigan 6%
NYU 84% Wisconsin 6%
U. of Washington 84% UCSB 7%
UCSD 84% Georgia 8%
UT-Austin 84% Georgia Tech 8%
UCSC 80% Illinois 8%
Purdue 79% Purdue 9%
UCR 75% UCM 9%
UCM 64% UT-Austin 11%GOAL 2.  Enable and support research that matters at the 
frontiers of knowledge, across and between the disciplines, 
in support of a healthy planet and the physical and societal 
well-being of its inhabitants.
Research & Development 
Expenditures (2016; dollars 
in 1,000,000s)Publications: Percent of 
publications in the top jour -
nals (2017)
Michigan $1,436 UCR 46.6%
U. of Washington  $1,277 UCB 45.7%
Wisconsin  $1,158 UCSB 45.0%
UCSD $1,087 Boston Univ. 44.7%
UNC-Chapel Hill $1,045 UCSD 44.1%
UCLA $1,038 UCSC 43.3%
NYU  $810 UCLA 42.8%
Florida  $791 UNC-Chapel Hill 42.7%
Georgia Tech  $791 UCM 42.3%
UCB  $774 U. of Washington 42.3%
UC Davis  $742 UCI 41.7%
Illinois  $625 UC Davis 41.1%
UT-Austin  $622 Michigan 40.2%
Purdue  $606 Wisconsin 39.7%
Georgia  $410 UT-Austin 38.0%
Virginia  $397 Georgia Tech 37.2%
Boston U.  $396 Illinois 36.3%
UCI  $345 NYU 36.2%
UCSB  $230 Virginia 35.3%
UCR  $152 Georgia 34.9%
UCSC  $151 Purdue 34.2%
UCM  $29 Florida 34.1%
56
UC Davis Strategic Plan
GOAL 3.  Embrace diversity, practice inclusive excellence and 
strive for equity. Make UC Davis a place of excellence for 
learning and working by supporting a culture that values the 
contributions and aspirations of all our students, staff and 
faculty; promotes wellness and a culture of sustainability; and 
cultivates the open interchange of ideas.
Faculty Diversity: Percent 
of tenured and tenure-track 
faculty from underrepre -
sented groups (Fall 2016)Social Mobility: Percent 
upwards social mobility from 
bottom 20% to top 20% of 
income distribution (college 
entry cohorts 1999–2005)
UCM 16.0% Georgia Tech 57.5%
UCSC 13.6% UCI 55.3%
UCLA 11.4% UCB 55.2%
UCR 11.2% UCSD 55.1%
UNC-Chapel Hill 10.9% UCLA 54.6%
UT-Austin 10.8% NYU 52.3%
Illinois 10.5% Virginia 51.8%
Georgia 10.3% UC Davis 51.8%
UCB 10.0% Boston Univ. 50.4%
UCSB 10.0% Michigan 50.4%
UCI 9.4% UCSB 49.5%
Florida 9.1% U. of Washington 45.6%
UCSD 9.0% UT-Austin 44.5%
Michigan 8.8% Florida 42.8%
UC Davis 8.6% Illinois 41.7%
NYU 8.0% UCR 41.0%
Virginia 7.4% UCSC 37.6%
Purdue 6.6% Georgia 35.2%
Boston Univ. 6.3% UNC-Chapel Hill 33.3%
Wisconsin 6.0% Purdue 31.5%
Georgia Tech 5.5% Wisconsin 22.1%
U. of Washington 4.7% UCM NAGOAL 4.  Support our community, region, state, nation and 
world through mutually beneficial and impactful partnerships 
that reflect a firm commitment to our mission and increase the 
visibility and reputation of the university.
Mean Rank Among Five 
2018 Global RankingsEconomic Contribution: 
Value Added
(FY 2009–2010; dollars in 
1,000,000s)
UCB 12.0 UCLA $ 8,303
UCLA 17.4 UC Davis $3,984
UCSD 24.0 UCSD $3,632
U. of Washington 25.8 UCB $3,190
NYU 32.8 UCI $2,662
Michigan 35.6 UCSB $1,443
Wisconsin 36.8 UCR $1,365
UT-Austin 43.8 UCSC $1,041
Illinois 46.0 UCM $165
UNC-Chapel Hill 46.6
Boston Univ. 63.2
UCSB 66.2
UC Davis 72.4
Georgia Tech 78.4
Purdue 80.2
UCI 96.0
Florida 112.8
Virginia 124.6
UCSC 144.4
UCR 211.6
Georgia 283.6
UCM NA
57
UC Davis Strategic Plan
APPENDIX
GOAL 5.  Create an intellectual and physical environment that 
supports the development of an innovative and entrepreneur -
ial culture that extends the benefits of our research activities 
beyond the boundaries of the university.
Startups
(FY 2016–2017)Patents Issued
(FY 2016–2017)
UCLA 20 UCLA 445
UCSD 20 UCSD 262
UC Davis 13 UCB 207
UCB 11 UCI 153
UCI 11 UC Davis 92
UCSB 5 UCR 71
UCR 2 UCSB 50
UCSC 2 UCSC 35
UCM 0 UCM 3NOTES ON STRATEGIC PLAN METRICS
6-YEAR GRADUATION RATE: 
This measures the percent of first-time, full-time 
freshmen completing their degree at UC Davis 
within six years. Fall 2008 through fall 2011 enter -
ing freshman cohorts are included in this metric. 
 ⊲Source: U.S. News and World Report Best College 
Rankings
PELL/NON-PELL 6-YEAR GRAD RATE GAP:
This measures the difference between the six-year 
graduation rate (as defined above) for students 
who received a Pell grant and students who did 
not receive a Pell grant.
 ⊲Source: U.S. News and World Report Best College 
Rankings
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES:
This measures the sum of all research and devel -
opment expenditures during fiscal year 2016 
(includes government, institutional, business, 
nonprofit, and other fund sources).
 ⊲Source: National Science Foundation  
PUBLICATIONS: PERCENT OF PUBLICATIONS IN THE 
TOP JOURNALS
This measures the percent of a school’s publica -
tions indexed in the Scopus database (includes 
articles, letters, notes, editorials, conference 
papers, etc.) that are published in journals consid -
ered to be “top journals” according to CiteScore. 
CiteScore calculates the average number of 
58
UC Davis Strategic Plan
citations a journal received in a calendar year from 
all items published in that journal in the preceding 
three years. Journals are ranked by this metric and 
the “top” journals for this purpose are those in the 
top 10 percent of this metric within each subject 
area or All Science Journal Classification (ASJC) 
category. 
Note: We know that this metric may not repre -
sent the diversity of our academic landscape as 
well as it should and we will keep an eye toward 
using a metric that better represents the entirety 
of our institution’s research productivity. 
 ⊲Source: Elsevier
FACULTY DIVERSITY
This measures the percent of tenured/tenure-track 
faculty who are from an underrepresented group 
(American Indian/Hispanic/African American). 
 ⊲Source: IPEDS
SOCIAL MOBILITY
This measures the percent of students who were 
in the top 20 percent of the income distribution 10 
years after college among those whose parents 
were in the bottom 20 percent of the income distri -
bution when the student started college. 
 ⊲Source: Equal Opportunity Project
2018 GLOBAL RANKINGS MEAN RANK
This measures the average rank of an institution 
across five major global rankings: U.S. News and 
World Report ’s “Best Global Universities,” Times 
Higher Education’s “World University Rankings,” 
Shanghai Ranking Consultancy’s “Academic Ranking of World Universities,” Quacquarelli 
Symonds’s “World University Rankings,” and the 
Center for World University Rankings’ “World Uni -
versity Rankings.”
 ⊲Sources: U.S. News ; THE ; Shanghai ; QS; CWUR
ECONOMIC IMPACT: VALUE ADDED 
This measures the gross value of goods and services 
less the value of intermediate inputs to production 
(generally comparable to Gross State Product). 
The FY2009–10 data are the most recent compa -
rable data available. 
 ⊲Source: The University of California’s Economic Con -
tribution to the State of California
START-UPS
This measures the number of new business 
enterprises during fiscal year 2016–2017 whose 
formation depended upon acquisition of rights to a 
UC invention for purposes of developing a product 
or service based on it. 
 ⊲Source: UC InfoCenter
PATENTS ISSUED
This measures the total U.S. and Foreign Patents 
Issued in fiscal year 2016–2017. Patents in this 
case are defined as a legal right to exclude others 
from making, using, offering to sell, selling or 
importing a patented utility invention within a 
given country; or to exclude others from asexually 
reproducing or using, offering to sell, or selling an 
asexually reproduced patented plant variety within 
a given country.
 ⊲Source: UC InfoCenter
59
UC Davis Strategic Plan


Copyright © 2018 University of California Regents. All Rights Reserved.
