STRATEGIC  PLAN
2018–2022
3
 STRATEGIC PLAN 2018–2022                 CONTENTS
Students and 
scholarship at 
the heart of 
everything we doMessage from His Highness Sheikh  
Dr. Sultan bin Muhammad Al Qasimi   4
Context 6
Message from the Chancellor 8
Vision 10
Mission 11
Institutional Values 13
Strategic Theme One 17
Strategic Theme Two 21
Strategic Theme Three 25
Strategic Theme Four 29
Measurements of Success 33
4 5
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 
Our goal to transform 
AUS into a comprehensive 
research university is 
ambitious. I am confident 
that you will succeed.  Dear AUS Community,
I am proud of what American University of Sharjah has achieved over the past 20 years, 
and I would like to thank each and every one of you for your contribution to its success. 
I now call on you to help implement an ambitious strategy for the university that sets out 
our objectives for the next five years.  
My vision for a liberal arts institution of excellence is now being realized in the graduates 
who go on to become productive members of society. Today, this core vision remains the 
same, but my expectations have grown. 
I have designated a significant investment over the next five years to transform AUS into a 
comprehensive research university. The establishment of four new research institutes and 
the development of the Sharjah Research, Technology and Innovation Park will enable 
the university to generate resources for the future endowment of AUS. 
The goal I have set for all of you is ambitious, but I am confident that you will succeed. 
HIS HIGHNESS SHEIKH SULTAN  
BIN MUHAMMAD AL QASIMI, PHD
PRESIDENT OF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH
6 7
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 
As one of our region’s leading intellectuals and 
academics, His Highness Sheikh Dr. Sultan bin 
Muhammad Al Qasimi, Member of the Supreme 
Council of the United Arab Emirates, Ruler of Sharjah 
and President of AUS, had a distinct vision for AUS. His 
dream became tangible reality when AUS opened its 
doors to its first students in 1997.
Our university’s meteoric rise in the short span of time 
since its inception is due solely to our adherence to the 
vision of our founder, which is clearly enunciated by the 
following values that define our institution’s identity:Science and education
must regain their
rightful place in the
advancement of our
society and in 
shaping the lives 
of our children.
The last 20 years have seen AUS flourish as one of the leading institutions in the Arab 
world. For the second year running, 2018 saw AUS achieve the number one position in 
the world for diversity as awarded by the Times Higher Education rankings. Our position 
in the QS world ranking also saw AUS rise to 376th in the world.
Our strategic plan to 2022 marks the beginning of the next 20 years in our journey. We 
are ambitious, determined and passionate about developing AUS into a comprehensive 
institution that impacts the Arab world. 
The future is bright and we look forward to continued success. CONTEXT
AUS must be 
organically 
linked with the 
economic, cultural 
and industrial 
sectors of society 
in productive 
cooperation. Science and education must regain their rightful place in
 the advancement of our society and in shaping the lives of 
our children.
The purpose of higher education is to reshape the minds of 
our youth in order for them to address personal and social 
challenges using the scientific method.
AUS must be a center of research for addressing the problems 
faced by society.
AUS will have the autonomy and freedom needed to flourish 
as an independent university.
AUS must be organically linked with the economic, cultural 
and industrial sectors of society in productive cooperation.  1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
8 9
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 
Our core mission is to provide 
the best student experience 
and deliver outstanding 
scholarship.  Dear Colleagues,
The Strategic Plan 2018-2022 takes effect as AUS moves into its third decade. The plan 
goes into effect as a companion piece to the Research Agenda 2018-2022, which is 
the detailed strategic plan for the research focus and action during the initial five years, 
2018-2022.
A year ago, AUS celebrated its 20-year anniversary. We paid tribute to faculty and staff 
for what we had achieved as one of the top teaching-centric universities in the Arab 
world, with an emphasis on liberal arts education for the benefit of our diverse students. 
Our ambition is to become a truly world-class university by improving further on the 
delivery of an excellent undergraduate liberal arts education. Part of our core mission is 
to provide the best student experience possible, including focus on student mentoring as 
a means to improve student retention, especially from the freshman to sophomore year.
As AUS moves into its third decade, we have set our vision to become the leading 
graduate research university in the Arab world within five years. We have embarked on 
an ambitious research agenda with a dedicated US $ 500 million research budget. The 
AUS research effort will seek to address critical global issues in health sciences, materials 
sciences and engineering, marine sciences, and computer intelligence, and to explore the 
effects of climate change on the environment. Four new interdisciplinary STEM research 
institutes will drive this research agenda, focusing on relevant regional research with 
a global impact, with world-class scholarship as the outcome and successful research 
collaboration with companies located in the adjacent Sharjah Research, Technology and 
Innovation Park.
AUS has recently created four interdisciplinary research institutes, as the core of the 
research agenda. These are the Biosciences and Bioengineering Research Institute; Gulf 
Environments Research Institute; Materials Science and Engineering Research Institute; 
and Smart Cities Research Institute. In addition, AUS has created three support centers: 
the Geospatial Analysis Center, High-Performance Computing Center, and Genomics 
Research Center. The first PhD degree program in Engineering Systems Management is 
operating, a second PhD degree program in Finance will enroll students in Fall 2019, and 
another four PhD programs will also be offered in the near future.
 
This Strategic Plan outlines our identity and how we will focus the university to achieve 
our goal of becoming the leading research university with a solid foundation in the 
liberal arts. The journey that AUS is embarking on in its third decade is exciting, and I am 
looking forward to share the journey with you. BJÖRN KJERFVE, PHD
CHANCELLOR OF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJA H 

10 11
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 VISION MISSION
American University of Sharjah (AUS) seeks to be 
globally recognized as the leading university in the 
Arab World, renowned for outstanding teaching, 
learning, research and scholarship while fostering 
innovation that positively impacts society.  
 
 American University of Sharjah provides distinctive teaching, 
learning, research and scholarship, educating and mentoring 
lifelong learners who contribute to society through intellectual 
inquiry, ethical behavior and civic responsibility. 
Delivering an American-style liberal arts based undergraduate 
education in the context of UAE culture and society, AUS ensures 
our graduates are well-rounded, versatile, critical thinkers with the 
ability to compete on a global scale. 
With our broad offering of PhD and master’s programs, AUS 
provides students with the highest level of education and 
scholarship in their chosen field.
Committed to world-class research and innovation, our scientific 
and technological advancements render a permanent impact on 
global and regional challenges.Renewing 
the promiseTrust and 
integrity

12 13
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 
INSTITUTIONAL VALUES
AUS embraces the multicultural community of the United Arab 
Emirates with approximately 100 nationalities represented in our 
student body.
Incorporating regional traditions of openness, diversity, respect 
and tolerance, we pursue shared governance and merit-based 
decisions.
Leadership
We advocate the development of the leaders of the future, and 
believe in demonstrating leadership through action.
Respect
We foster a supportive environment that develops respect among 
all members of our community. 
Distinction
We strive for excellence and innovation in our teaching, learning 
and scholarship, and place high value on inspiring and delivering 
excellence.
Integrity
We subscribe to merit-based ethical standards, honesty and 
transparency in our demonstration of fairness in practices.  
Inclusiveness
We recognize and celebrate the differences between people and 
value the opportunities they create.Shared 
responsibility
Strategic
Themes

16 17
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 STRATEGIC THEME ONE
THE AUS 
EXPERIENCE
At AUS, a culture of personal development, critical thought and 
societal responsibility informs our academic programs, support 
services, communications and interactions.
Borne out of our core values, the AUS experience is exacting, 
rewarding, transformative and lifelong. It is an experience built 
on standards of excellence, through which individuals gain the 
confidence, knowledge and desire to change the lives of those 
around them and make an impact in the wider community.
AUS is committed to continually reviewing and enhancing the 
experiences encountered by all stakeholders. 
Rewarding and 
transformative
19
 STRATEGIC PLAN 2018–2022                 
STRATEGIES
i) Ensure that students receive a tailored experience 
and progression guidance through the establishment of 
discipline-specific advising and mentorship initiatives. 
ii) Continue to develop excellence in teaching and learning 
through the promotion of innovative approaches that 
support creative and critical thinking.  
iii) Optimize the efficiency of our processes and systems 
through the implementation of proven technology to 
improve the enrollment and admissions process, on-campus 
operations and services, delivery of academic programs, 
and communication across the community.
iv) Define and develop a range of appraisal processes to 
ensure an efficient and precise evaluation experience for 
all employees that optimizes individualized and continuous 
professional development to continue to attract and retain 
the highest quality faculty and staff for the benefit of our 
students.
v) Expand on-campus facilities and services to meet the 
needs of the AUS community, leading to improved health, 
vitality and well-being.An outstanding student experience from first 
awareness to life as alumni, based on an in-
depth understanding of the student journey.
World-leading teaching and learning, with 
personalized mentorship and a curriculum 
embedded in global needs.
The highest level of service with all 
stakeholders and university partners, aligning 
AUS with international best practice.
A balanced, accommodating, and aspirational 
living and working environment to continue 
to attract and retain the highest quality faculty 
and staff, providing excellence for all students 
and stakeholders.
Mentorship 
leading to
success Goals
1.
2.
3.
4.STRATEGIC THEME ONE | THE AUS EXPERIENCE
20 21
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 STRATEGIC THEME TWO
Strategic themes 
and goalsRESEARCH AND 
SCHOLARSHIP
With our exciting ambition to become the region’s leading 
institution, the need to grow our research agenda producing high-
quality research and scholarship with local relevance and a global 
impact is critical.
Through the support of His Highness Sheikh Dr. Sultan bin 
Muhammad Al Qasimi, Member of the Supreme Council of the 
UAE, Ruler of Sharjah, and President of American University 
of Sharjah, AUS is well positioned to expand its research 
infrastructure, faculty resources and expertise, and graduate 
program offerings with the aim of becoming the region’s leader in 
research, scholarship and creative activity. 
Regional relevance  
with global impact
23
 STRATEGIC PLAN 2018–2022                 
STRATEGIES
i) Establish four interdisciplinary research institutes in the 
areas of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Gulf Environments, 
Smart Cities, and Material Science and Engineering, offering 
master’s degree and PhD programs in each institute. Support 
the research institutes through the development of three 
centers specializing in geospatial analysis, genomics and high-
performance computational power.
ii) Develop the administrative structure and operational 
services required to support a comprehensive university.
iii) Establish methodology and infrastructure to enable 
internal and external dissemination and promotion of 
knowledge and ideas leading to enhanced research visibility. 
Encourage the exploration of interdisciplinary research 
opportunities through collaboration with international 
academia and industry. 
iv) Use a broad range of metrics to gauge the productivity 
and impact of research and scholarship output across all 
disciplines. Assist the realization of our research targets 
through a framework of faculty development initiatives and 
financial support. A comprehensive university integrating a 
research and scholarship agenda with the 
on-going commitment to an undergraduate 
education with an innovative liberal arts 
foundation.
A research and scholarship culture that 
empowers faculty to deliver high productivity 
and quality.
Transforming 
societyGoals
1.
2.STRATEGIC THEME TWO | RESEARCH AND SCHOLARSHIP
24 25
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 STRATEGIC THEME THREE
Strategic themes 
and goalsSUSTAINABILITY
AUS recognizes that environmental, societal and economic 
sustainability are key pillars that support our operations and 
endeavors.
As we grow into a comprehensive research university, a 
diversification of revenue streams will add to the strong foundation 
we have built over the first 20 years of our history and will further 
enable our institution to support research and education that meet 
the needs of current and future generations.
A commitment to an environmentally responsible campus will 
ensure that AUS can carry out its mission while protecting the 
community in which it is embedded. Through its research and 
educational mission, AUS, in collaboration with partners and 
alumni, is committed to leading the way on environmental 
sustainability issues and practices in the region.    
 
Awareness and 
adaptability
26 27
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 STRATEGIES
The region’s leader in environmental 
sustainability through on-campus practices 
and research into the wider issues of human 
impact on the natural and man-made Gulf 
environment.
A socially responsible alumni body with a 
lifelong commitment to addressing societal 
challenges.
Fiscal sustainability through the diversification 
and strengthening of revenue streams. 
Foundation
for the futureGoals
1.
2.
3.STRATEGIC THEME THREE | SUSTAINABILITY
i) Align the university with international best practice in sustainability 
to advance efficiencies. Through the critical analysis of operational 
practices and the use of space and physical resources, implement 
energy saving and waste reduction initiatives.
ii) Enhance awareness of environmental challenges within the AUS 
community through knowledge-sharing platforms. Collaborate 
with experts on Middle East sustainability to remain current on the 
methodologies and techniques required to work towards a zero-
carbon footprint.
iii) Infuse the curricular content and extra-curricular experiences with 
the tools to recognize and address societal needs
iv) Expand undergraduate student recruitment into new markets 
to strengthen the tuition revenue stream, providing a sustainable 
financial position allowing for future growth in the pursuit of the 
educational mission. 
v) Grow the endowment through international best practice in 
fundraising, strengthening our ability to offer merit and need-based 
scholarships. Through individual, family and corporate donors and 
sponsors, AUS will establish a culture of philanthropy that will aid in 
the future success of our student body.
vi) Explore and implement a range of additional revenue streams 
including socially sustainable off-campus commercial ventures and 
start-up investment, expansion of professional programs and entry 
into the online education market. 
28 29
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 STRATEGIC THEME FOUR
Strategic themes 
and goalsENGAGEMENT 
AND IMPACT
AUS is continuously engaged with all stakeholders to maximize 
the impact of our educational mission. 
The greatest impact is realized through the work of our 
graduates as they contribute to the growth and success of their 
communities. We further impact society through our extensive 
research and scholarship, which provide innovative approaches 
to modern day challenges.
Communicating the achievements of students, faculty and 
alumni to a global audience will foster the continued rise of 
AUS on the international stage, and position the university as an 
educational leader.
Reach and  
influence
31
 STRATEGIC PLAN 2018–2022                 
STRATEGIES
i) Collaborate with industry to ensure relevance and viable 
career pathways for AUS graduates.
ii) Sustain and build relationships with alumni, drawing on 
their knowledge, experience and resources to contribute to 
the future development of the AUS community. 
iii) Contribute to cultural, economic and social prosperity in 
Sharjah and the Middle East through engaging in institutional 
and organizational partnerships. 
iv) Enhance the profile of AUS through faculty-driven and 
university-supported exposure of academic expertise and 
scholarship and individual research outputs. 
v) Augment the AUS reputation through effective strategic 
communications at a regional and international level.A comprehensive engagement with external 
stakeholders coupled with a culture of active 
internal engagement to maximize opportunities 
for students, alumni and the wider community.
An intellectual leader and influencer that 
ensures continuous institutional relevance, with 
high regional impact across all levels of the 
educational mission. 
The journey
togetherGoals
1.
2.STRATEGIC THEME FOUR | ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
33
 STRATEGIC PLAN 2018–2022                 
Measurements
of SuccessTHE AUS EXPERIENCE
Student satisfaction Freshman-year student
retentionAlumni engagement
RESEARCH AND SCHOLARSHIPEnhancement of the AUS experience will be measured against international 
benchmarks for:STRATEGIC THEMES
1
2
3
4Institutional-wide 
increase in publication 
and scholarly outputIncrease in and 
diversification of  
research fundingGlobal recognition of 
scholarly achievements 
across all disciplinesSuccess in research and scholarship will be indicated by:
SUSTAINABILITY
A significant increase in 
our endowment Improved sustainability 
ratings from professional 
bodies Regional and international 
recognition of the influence 
of our alumni Progress towards a sustainable institution will be attained through:
ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
Increased exposure on 
digital mediaAn increase in external 
entities that benefit from 
the expertise of AUS 
leadershipIncreased global 
awareness of 
reputational excellence 
among aspirational peer 
institutions and marketsAugmentation of the AUS profile will be demonstrated by:
34 35
 STRATEGIC PLAN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH 2018–2022                 
Bringing different 
worlds together
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH
University City
PO Box 26666
Sharjah, UAE
 
+971 6 515 5555
communications@aus.edu
www.aus.edu
 
 
American University of Sharjah  ©DECEMBER 2018
