 ASU STRATEGIC PLAN (2020-2025)
www.asu.edu.bh
ASU
Lill llpalelldeok APPLIED SCIENCE UNIVERSITY
g lelplailla nioBanias Accredited by the Higher Education Council

 
 His Majesty
Late Amir of Bahrain The King of the Kingdom of Bahrain The Crown Prince and Prime Minister
His Highness
Shaikh Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa
His Royal Highness

 6 7
8
9
10 |11
12 |14 15
Foerwodr
onoidructntI
ASaUt a
Glance
Strategic Achievements (2015/2020)
TheNewVision 2020-2025
Strategic Objectives Va l u e s
Learning a n d Teaching Research

 Contents
Community
Engagement Student Support
1 8 Quality Enhancement
Entrepreneurship a n dInnovation
20 21
22 23
16 17
19
Internationalization a n d Partnerships
HumanCapital SustainableGrowth
Workshop Pictures

 Foreword ProfessorWaheebAlKhaja IampleasedtopresenttheStrategic Plan2020-2025of
Chairmano ft h eBoardo fTrustees
Applied Science University, Bahrain, where our students are at the heart of everything we do.
ASU has an international outlook, as can be seen through our partnerships with leading universities and academics in the UK and the Arab world. We also have a strong commitment to our local community and region - contributing through our educational provision, our research and our business partnerships. We intend to become a leading university in the Gulf and beyond.
We deliver undergraduate and masters programmes across four colleges to around 3,000 students. Several more programmes are planned to come onstream in the near future, in order to widen our global reach and to provide quality education to bright, ambitious and talented students throughout the region. We have invested significantly in our facilities by building a
modern and well-designed university campus.
Our Strategic Plan 2020-2025 has been developed with input from al our stakeholders, to ensure that with drive and determination Applied Science University and all our graduates wil continue to play a vital role in the future of the GCC economy and contribute to our society.
Since i t s inception, Applied Science University h a s witnessedsignificantgrowth, makingitoneoftheleading universities in t h e Kingdom ofBahrain.Today,we standonthethresholdofa challenging future a n d w e hopeto continueo nourpath o f excellence i n preparing qualifiedstudentswhoare ablet oservetheircountries a n dcommunities
6 U S A
S T R A T E G I C
P L A( 2 N0 2 0 - 2 0 2 5 ) |
ASU

 ASU
La ne il l pgl el l acol APPLIED SCIENCE UNIVERSITY
Introduction
tI gives me agreat pleasure to introduce our Strategic
Plan 2020-2025. Strategic planning plays a pivotal role in transforming our University and ti was really exciting to develop our Plan with full participation from staff, students and external stakeholders, aligning ti to the strategies and directions of the Kingdom's Higher Education Council and especially Bahrain's Economic Vision 2030. Delivery of our Plan will be achieved through a series of clear and robust Operational Plans and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
Our core activities are centered on learning and teaching, research and community engagement, supported by six pillars of student support, quality enhancement,
entrepreneurship &innovation, internationalization & partnerships, human capital and sustainable growth.
Combined, these form our nine Strategic Objectives.
Students are central to al that we do and our Strategic Plan will ensure we provide the best possible learning experience, focusing on employability, strong
entrepreneurial skills and STEM subjects. Our degrees with intentioal hat ASs deliversed aton the nigersty, quality. This Strategic Plan has benefitted immensely from the clear vision of the Board of Directors and Board of Trustees, especially the insights of Professor Waheeb Alkhaja, our Founding President and Chairman of our Board of Trustees.
It is also important to acknowledge the excellent contributions from our staff, students and external partners and stakeholders. Applied Science University has an exciting time ahead and our Strategic Plan will be a beacon to guide our direction.
ProfessorGhassanAouad University President
ASU STRATEGIC PLAN
(2020-2025) 7
The University will remain a shining torch for society, a leader of change,aninnovator,and an institute of education, Baitin and aer sonings wise leadership

 8 USA
STRATEGIC PLA(2N020-2025)|
ASUata Glance
Applied Science University was granted its licence by the Ministry of Education according to the decree issued by the Minister's Council (No. WD 140/2004) dated 5th July 2004, making it one of the first private universities in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
ASU aspires to become one of the leading universities in the Kingdom of Bahrain and in the wider Gulf region. The University aims to support the economic and social development of the Kingdom of Bahrain by providing degree programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Our programmes are grounded in a pedagogical framework designed to develop students' understanding of key theories and concepts through knowledge acquisition and development of practical skills, with a focus on providing programmes in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). We aim to foster life-long learning and to prepare our graduates for a range of career paths within their chosen field or discipline.
ASU employs experienced and well qualified academic faculty who support student learning and the overall student experience through provision of research-informed teaching, supported by a comprehensive range of learning and assessment methods. This approach ensures that ASU graduates are well-equipped and capable of facing the challenges of their professional careers.
At its formation, ASU was situated in the Juffair district of Bahrain, and relocated to its new purpose-built campus in September 2013. The new campus covers an area of 24,000sq.m, designed to accommodate around 1,690 students at a time (giving a total capacity of 5,070 students distributed across mornings, evenings and
weekends).
The campus is designed to provide an excellent educational environment, in
accordance with the highest international and local standards using the latest
technology in classrooms, including design studios, lecture halls, computer labs, language and specialized laboratories, as well as a high-tech library, incubation centre and a state-of-the-art lecture theatre with 292 seats. Wi-Fi connection is
available across the campus. There is also a Student Activity Centre, featuring table tennis, billiards, table-football and computer games; together with outdoor courts for tennis, basketball, etc. In addition, located throughout the campus are social spaces with seating, a coffee shop and a cafeteria.
The location of the campus is an ideal geographical position, situated in the Central Governorate between Manama and Riffa, making ti easily accessible from all parts of Bahrain.

 ASUStrategicAchievements (2015/2020)
ASUh a sachievedoutstandingmilestonesduringt h eimplementationofits previousStrategicPlancoveringt h eyears2015t o2020.Theseachievements arethestrengthsthathavecreatedthebasisoft h enewvisionthatthe Universityh a sini t sStrategicPlan2020-2025.
Strategic Achievements Timeline
2019
- HEC Accreditation
- Became an accredited HEA centre
-ICITEE joint conference
- ISO 21001:2018 Management System for Educational Organizations
- 37 ni the QS Arab Region University Ranking 2020
- 4 Stars ni the QS Stars Rating System 2019
2017
- ASU is registered for programme placement on the National Qualification Framework (NQF)
- Application submitted for HEC Institutional Accreditation
- First cohorts of students join ASU's collaborative
British programmes
- Tenth Graduation Ceremony: Over 3000 alumni since establishment
- Launch of the Colege of Engineering and its programmes
2015
- ASU joins top-tier universities ni the HEC Annual
Report ranking
- Creation of ASU Alumni Club
• 2020
- BQA Institutional Review
- 37 ni the Arab Region ni the Green Metric Table 2020
- 29 ni the QS Arab Region University Ranking 2021
- 401+ in THE Times Higher Education Impact Ranking 2020 - 651-700 ni the QS World University Ranking 2021
2018
- The launch of the Business Incubation Centre
- Awards from HH. . Sheikh Nasser Bni Hamad Al Khalifa, H. Sheikh Khalid Bni Hamad Al Khalifa for supporting the community
- FII membership for the Interior Design programme
2016
- Successful NQF Institutional Listing
- Academic Agreements with Cardif Metropolitan University and London South Bank University
USA STRATEGIC PLAN
(2020|-2902
5

 1 0 USA
STRATEGIC PLAN (2020-2025) |
The New Vision 2020-2025
ASU has attained major goals during the previous strategic planning period. These accomplishments have strengthened the solid reputation that ASU has as a private university in the Kingdom of Bahrain and the GCC region. Looking towards the horizon, ASU aims to continue building upon its previous successes and its recognition, both nationally and regionally, as an institution that provides high-quality educational services that serve the community. ASU also aims to serve the community by emphasizing the entrepreneurial skills of its students. Moreover, ti seeks to be a highly reputed and renowned university on the global stage.
Combined, these aspirations have guided the ASU vision, mission, and success factors, which, in turn, have evolved into nine strategic objectives to help enable the University achieve its Strategic Plan 2020-2025.
Vision:
Aleading university promoting excellence in
applied education and research ni Bahrain and
the region.
ASU is dedicated ot ofering students and staf the opportunity to
contribute to the sustainable development of society &community.
Mission:
nI addition, ASU strives to be recognized nationally and internationally
for its reputation ni applied learning and teaching, research and
community engagement. Furthermore, ASU is commited ot enhancing
graduates' employability through innovative approaches and
entrepreneurial practices ni order ot help them compete ni
international markets.
1.Integrity
2.Colaboration and Team spirit
Values:
3.Loy
a
lty
4.Social
Responsiveness and Community Engagement
5.Quality
6.Innovation and Creativity

 Conetsy Suport
5. Quality
6. Entrepreneurship
Enablers: 7.aterationalization
education activities and priorities
eume inatal environment that fosters the recruitment and development of national and international staf
9. Sustainable Growth Utilize the available resources
Strategic Objectives
Vision
Aleading university promoting excelenceni applied education and research ni Bahrain and hte region.
.1 Learning and Teaching programmes
Mission
Strategic Objectives
Mani Pilars: .2 Research
3. Community Engagement
Values
Integrity -Colaboration and Team Spirit -Loyalty -Social Responsiveness and Community Engagement -Quality -Innovation and Creativity
The nine building blocks of the new Strategic Plan 2020-2025 identify the three core areas on which we focus our efforts and the six areas which enable us to do this. Together these make up the nine pillars of our strategic activities.
The focus areas are:
- Learning and Teaching
- Research
- Community Engagement
The enabling areas are: - Student Support
- Quality Enhancement
- Entrepreneurship and Innovation
- Internationalization and Partnerships - Human Capital
- Sustainable Growth
These nine pillars provide a detailed roadmap for the implementation of the University's Strategic Objectives. In turn, each pillar contains Key Priorities and a clear set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure and ensure that the Strategic Objectives are met.
| ASUSTRATEGICPLAN
(2|01210-
2

 2 USA
STRATEGIC PLAN(2020-2025) |
ASU's community
places collaboration and team spirit at the heart of its institutional culture and promotes these values consistently.
2. Collaboration and Team Spirit
ASU's community values honesty, fairness and academic integrity as fundamental to its vision and mission, and upholds the values in all its endeavours.
, 1. Integrity
Val
ASU's students, faculty
and staff cherish loyalty
and commitment and recognize these values to
be inherent in their culture
of cooperation and dedication.
3. Loyalty

 
 1 4 USA
STRATEGIC PLAN(2020-2025)|
Strategic Objective 1. Learning and Teaching
Enhance the culture of learning and teaching that supports reaching the University's strategic direction of being a leader in applied programmes.
Key Priorities:
1. Learning and Teaching practices development: Enhance Learning and
Teaching practices that lead to improvement of students'
knowledge, skills and competencies.
2. Existing and new programmes development: Reflect national and
international market needs in existing and new programmes.
Institutional KPI:
1.1 Employer's satisfaction rate 1.2 Course evaluation rate
1.3 Percentage of programmes with satisfactory compliance of
regulators' requirements
1.4 Number of programmes
with international accreditations 1.5 Usage of e-learning technology in courses
1.6 Satisfaction rate toward e-learning service
1.7 Percentage of offered courses that use e-learning
1.8 Percentage of students at risk
2.1 Number of market-oriented programmes offered by the
University
2.2 Programme Advisory Board satisfaction rate

 Strategic Objective 2. Research
Maintain and enhance a professional research culture to attain a competitive edge in research practices.
Key Priorities:
1. Research culture: Support
the University's staff and students to produce high quality research output.
2. Research impact: Improve the University's research impact on communities.
Institutional KPI:
1. Meeting identified
research-related league tables
and ranking requirements
1.2 Number of publications in
highly ranked journals
1.3 Number of students
participating in the University's
research publications
1.4 Number of funded projects
1.5 Number of published articles in conferences and refereed
journals / faculty member
2.1 Number of research-based partnerships
2.2 Percentage of applied research studies and projects
ASU SPTLRATNEGIC
(20201-2502
5

 1 6 USA
STRATEGIC PLAN(2020-2025) |
Strategic Objective
3. Community Engagement
Engage the University in national community activities which contribute to achieving the community's priorities.
Key Priorities:
1. Community engagement
management: Set and
implement a plan governs the
University's community
engagement activities
involving staff, students and alumni.
2. Community outreach: Coordinate with relevant internal and external parties to make ASU an active part of the national community.
Institutional KPI:
1.1 Percentage of academic staff (from total academic staff
members) participating in community engagement activities
1.2 Percentage of students participating in community engagement initiatives
1.3 Number of initiatives that engage alumni in community engagement activities
2.1 Number of community engagement initiatives
2.2 Stakeholders' satisfaction rate

 Strategic Objective 4. Student Support
Continuously develop student-support provisions in order to graduate highly-qualified students, and support their career aspirations.
Key Priorities:
.1 Student and graduates' environment: Continuously improve the facilities and services, provided by the
University in all functions, in order to increase students'
and graduates' satisfaction.
2. Enhance students'
performance: Provide the necessary support to enhance students' academic performance, soft and employability skills.
Institutional KPI:
1.1 Students' satisfaction rate toward the University services
1.2 Graduating students' satisfaction rate
2.1 Graduates' employment rate 2.2 Student satisfaction rate
toward academic advising 2.3 Graduation rate
ASU SPTLRATNEGIC
(20201-2702
5

 
 Strategic Objective
6. Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Develop a robust and supportive environment that fosters entrepreneurship and innovation.
Key Priorities:
1. Innovative and
entrepreneurial business
mindset: Enhance students'
entrepreneurial skills to b e c o m e innovative
entrepreneurs, through internal and external
opportunities.
2. ASU image: Build a solid network with the external
community to improve ASU's image as one of the leading Universities in supporting entrepreneurs.
Institutional KPI:
1.1 Percentage of innovative business ideas
1.2 Number of students' pre start-ups / start-ups which participate in entrepreneurship opportunities
2.1 Number of participating businesses initiated by ASU students
2.2 Number of collaborations / invitations with external stakeholders
ASU SPTLRATNEGIC
(20201-2902
5

 2 0 USA
STRATEGIC PLAN(2020-2025)|
Strategic Objective
7. Internationalization and Partnerships
To be an active university that supports international education activities and priorities.
Key Priorities:
1. International-partnership initiatives: Consolidate the
University's effort toward
initiating and sustaining
cooperative partnerships with international institutions that
improve the University's international profile.
2. International outreach: Enter international markets
by attracting international students.
Institutional KPI:
1.1 Number of international
engagements
1.2 Number of alumni employed overseas and in pursuit of an international postgraduate degree
2.1 Number of international recognitions
2.2 Percentage of international students

 Strategic Objective 8. Human Capital
Invest in creating an environment that fosters the recruitment and development of national and international staff.
Key Priorities:
1. Staff recruitment and retention: Create an environment that retains national and international
administration and academic staff
2. Staff development: Develop administrative and academic
staff skills by providing resources to improve.
Institutional KPI:
1. Staff retention rate 1.2 Staff satisfaction rate
2.1 Number of staff awarded a certificate from a recognized body
2.2 Line manager appraisal rating of employees
ASU SPTLRATNEGIC
20205(-) | 2 1

 2 2
U S A
1. Resources utilization:
Mange the collective efforts to control t h e utilization of t h e available resources for
financial growth.
2. Risk Management: Ensure that all the risks are
identified, and that appropriate mitigation is in place to minimize risk.
S T R A T E G I C P L A( 2 N0 2 0 - 2 0 2 5 ) |
Strategic Objective 9. Sustainable Growth
Utilize the available resources effectively and efficiently to map and implement a sustainable growth direction for the University.
1.015 51.412%5 149.16
23.30
Key Priorities:
1. Budget realization with acceptable variance between
budgeted and actual expenses 1.2 Number of enrolled students
1.3 Cost per recruited student
1.4 Total average operating expenditure (other than student allowances) per student
2.1 Percentage of risks with valid mitigations keeping risks within tolerable limits
209.22 72410.
208.33
210.24 1,218.38
1456 50 .41
.513.08 68.02 29,240.68
Institutional KPI:

 Workshop
Pictures
ASU C GIETARTS
PLAN
2025)2020-(
| 2 3
ario planning :pests
create scenario planning
period (5 years)|
ess directions (vision and success factors
h e
yt h eo

 