ASTON  
STRATEGY
2018 to 2023
CONTENTS
Aston University   |   Strategy
02 Vice-Chancellor's introduction
05 Mission, vision and values04 Aston in a changing world
07
0809
10
12
13Beneficiary group 1: students
Beneficiary group 2: business and the professions
Beneficiary group 3: our region and society
Key enablers of the strategy
Implications for Aston
Conclusion and implementation06 Beneficiary structure
1 Aston University   |   Strategy
Vice-Chancellor’s introduction  
This strategy has been framed differently from most university strategies, and 
deliberately so. Most strategies are defined around the principal activities of 
the university; usually research, education, and engagement. Instead, we have 
structured this strategy around the beneficiaries of Aston University, who are the 
parties external to the University and whom we exist to serve. We will continue to 
offer support to our beneficiaries because their future success is critical to us.
We have categorised our beneficiaries into three groups: The development and articulation of Aston University’s strategy gives us the 
opportunity to communicate clearly our ambition, our objectives, and our 
priorities; to state what is most important to us, and to identify our points of 
distinction.
ALEC CAMERON
VICE-CHANCELLORour students, who progress to be our graduates and alumni; 
external organisations (comprising businesses, public entities, the not-
for-profit sector, and the professions), who employ our students, and also 
engage with us directly on research and educational programmes; 
Birmingham and the West Midlands region, and wider society whom we 
serve as a public university, with a strong sense of place. 
These groups do not only benefit from their engagement with us; they are also, 
directly or indirectly, the providers of almost all the funding on which we, and 
other universities, exist. If we understand and meet the needs of our beneficiaries, our future success is well-assured.
Another important feature of this strategy is its strong focus on our role within 
Birmingham and the West Midlands region. We continue to play a critical role 
in the economic development of our region. Further, our strong links with our 
region and businesses, supporting our focus on highly-employable graduates 
and research with impact, underpins our international reputation and attraction to 
students and partners abroad.
This strategy commits us to making the choices about what Aston aspires to be 
known for, nationally and internationally, and accepting the implicit trade-offs. 
We will not shy away from these decisions, and will comprehensively review our 
education and research programmes to concentrate our resources in areas of 
real current, or clear future potential.
The execution of this strategy rests primarily with the staff of Aston, across 
academic and professional roles. Our values and culture are vital and we will draw on these to assist us in serving our beneficiaries.
I thank all members of the Aston community and key stakeholders for their input 
into this plan, and for your support in its implementation. 1.
2.
3.
2 Aston University   |   Strategy
There are four fundamental ideas that describe the strategy
Building on our track record, our 
founding purpose continues
to be valuable and can be
leveraged in local, national and
international contexts.
We must focus and strengthen 
how we deliver our core 
activities.Our strategy is framed around 
three key beneficiary groups 
- students, business and the 
professions, and our region and 
society.
We will remain focused on our 
beneficiaries, having a clear 
vision of what we will offer them  
and how we will offer it. We will 
review and align our current 
activities.32
41
3 Aston University   |   Strategy
Aston in a changing world 
The higher education environment is volatile and 
there will be challenges to Aston’s currently strong 
sector position.
Major drivers of change in the higher education 
sector include government policy, economic growth, demographic changes, increased provider competition and the impact of technology on 
teaching and learning.Our strengths include:
a diverse student population with high rates of graduate employability 
and excellent performance in other measures of graduate outcomes
good relationships with business and local industry for placements, 
collaborative research and training courses
high quality, exploitable research that is accessible for business and 
has a positive impact on society
a collegiate and proud workforce which is committed to the values of 
higher education
prominent and influential alumni across major sectors locally, nationally 
and internationally
be more distinctive 
diversify revenue generation by being customer-focused and market-led
maintain clear value propositions for the different beneficiary groups
demonstrate continuing relevance to industry partners
operate professionally with agility and paceTogether these factors mean that to be a successful university in the future, 
we will need to: 
Our new strategy is the framework to allow us to deliver on those requirements.
4 Aston University   |   Strategy
Mission, vision and values
In 2023 Aston will have an international reputation for delivery of outstanding graduate outcomes 
and equipping business and communities with the skills for future success.Vision
Aston is professional and ambitious
The University believes this is a prerequisite to realise our mission and vision, and will be recognised 
by businesses and external organisations as shared values which make Aston an attractive partner for research and education. 
Aston is  innovative and collaborative
The University works across disciplines, institutions and partners to be proactive in creating and 
implementing new ideas, to be a leader in modern educational techniques and to undertake research which inspires staff, students and external partners. 
Aston is ethical and inclusive
The University recognises its responsibility to be an exemplar of behaviour and conduct in all 
that it does. It will leverage the diversity of its staff and student body to achieve outcomes for its beneficiaries and provide opportunities for education and professional development to all.ValuesTo be the UK’s leading university for students aspiring to succeed in business and the professions, 
where original research, enterprise and inspiring teaching deliver local and global impact.Mission
5 Aston University   |   Strategy
Beneficiary structure
Sharpen
Core activitiesStrengthenOur revised strategy 
focuses on desired 
outcomes for the 
University’s main beneficiaries: • students 
• business and the professions 
• our region and society 
We are motivated by 
those we benefit and 
these beneficiaries will be the main focus of our strategic direction 
over the next five years.Our operations deliver four core activities to support our beneficiaries. These 
activities are not unique to Aston – however, emphasis on the right aspect of each 
activity to support beneficiary outcomes will ensure we maintain our distinct 
position in the sector.
Our core offering will continue to represent value, but it must be sharpened and 
strengthened to stay relevant. We will:
our offering by explicitly investing our 
resources in areas of outstanding 
performance, both current and planned, and directing relatively less 
investment elsewhere. 
High quality 
teaching and 
student supportCollaborative 
research with 
high translation 
and impactSkill building and 
industry 
developmentCommunity 
engagement 
and 
developmentour offering by connecting more effectively and extensively with the 
community and region in which we are rooted, and taking our strengths 
to the wider world in order to better 
contribute to society and diversify 
revenue generation.
Aspirational and high performanceCulture and organisation
A rewarding 
career and 
improved  
quality of lifeStudents
Our region  
and societyBusiness  
and the  
professions
Agile, 
innovative and 
fit for the future
Capabilities, connections 
and prosperityThe 
Aston 
Mission
6 Aston University   |   Strategy
Beneficiary group 1: students
A core element of the University has always been to deliver outstanding education for our students. We have a 
long history of successfully teaching a diverse body of students the skills required to thrive in business and the professions, and we will continue to deliver high quality education to students into the future, including our new student population in Oman.
We perform well for student outcomes and satisfaction:
We have the opportunity to reinforce and build on these existing strengths and differentiate ourselves from our competitors. 
To achieve this, we will need to be agile in our approach to content provision and delivery. 
The key outcomes are:
We will continue to produce graduates who are well-equipped to enrich their communities and society. Above the UK average  for rates of graduates entering the workforce or 
further study within six months of graduating
2nd in UK  for boosting graduate salaries (The Economist, 2017)  
88% student satisfaction  in the National Student Survey (2017)
Students will have high 
rates of employment in desirable jobs following 
graduation. 
 Students will have a fulfilling 
educational experience, have developed social capital and be well-equipped to succeed in life.Students will be highly skilled in their discipline and have a global and entrepreneurial mindset.
7 Aston University   |   Strategy
Beneficiary group 2: business and the professions
The key outcomes we will strive to achieve for this beneficiary group are:
Lasting and positive relationships with business and professional organisations will remain a key feature of our value 
offering.We will teach the skills and knowledge that businesses and professional organisations require to grow.We will link businesses, theprofessions and otherorganisations to graduateemployees and entrepreneurs.We will ensure businesses and the professions benefit from our translational research and knowledge exchange activities.Historically, we have differentiated ourself from other universities through our strong engagement with local industry, 
business and the public sector. Types of engagement have included student placements, graduate job pathways, co-funded 
collaborative research and bespoke training courses. We are particularly known for our productive partnerships with local 
and global SMEs, as well as our strong links to large organisations such as BMW, HSBC, Greater Birmingham Chambers of 
Commerce, Jaguar Land Rover, the National Crime Agency and Public Health England. These partnerships are managed 
organically at a devolved level by schools, departments, individual academics or professional service staff.
8 Aston University   |   Strategy
Beneficiary group 3: our region and society
The key outcomes are:
We are not only a cornerstone of the West Midlands – we can be a springboard from the region to the world. Through widening 
participation, we will create educational opportunities for the students of our region, regardless of their background. Our research, innovation and enterprise activities will enhance the economy and improve quality of life in the West Midlands and beyond.We will build partnerships and global connections through our research collaborators, international alumni and students.We recognise that the West Midlands region and community is integral to our ongoing licence to operate. Our strong ties 
to the West Midlands are a key enabler for students and business partnerships. A sizeable proportion of our students have 
always come from local communities and many remain in the region to live and work after graduation. There is also a thread 
that runs from our local roots through to our international presence, which we can cultivate and expand. The opportunity for 
us is to identify these excellent relationships and disciplines, and take local successes to the world.
9 Aston University   |   Strategy
Key enablers of the strategy
Invest in activities aligned to the strategy and end activities that are not
Strengthen leadership, operations, systems and facilities
Embed a high-performance, customer-focused culture
Increase financial sustainabilityFor this strategy to achieve sustainable success, the organisation must be 
fit for purpose. It is critical that we build upon our existing organisational 
strengths and also evolve to focus our energies and resources most 
effectively. We will pursue key enabling initiatives early in this strategic plan period to ensure this, as set out below:
10 Aston University   |   Strategy
Over time, we will reduce and cease activities 
not directly aligned with this strategy to make 
the best use of our resources and free up 
capacity to focus on areas of strength.The University and its stakeholders hold high aspirations and 
expectations for each other. However, to continue to achieve desired 
outcomes for beneficiaries, we will need to further embed a high-
performance culture across the organisation. The University-employee 
relationship is one of respect but also mutual obligation. We recognise 
the importance of attracting and retaining high quality staff, and 
will back and support them, in the expectation that they are closely 
aligned with our desired direction and outcomes for beneficiaries.
To continue to achieve 
desired outcomes for 
beneficiaries, we will 
need to further embed a 
high performance culture 
across the organisation.
We will: We will:
conduct a review of research activities 
to reassign resources to research 
areas that align with our strategic 
strengths and industry relationships
evaluate and, as necessary,
restructure our educational offeringto align with student outcomessupport our staff to succeed and deliver high quality research 
and teaching, and recognise the importance of professional 
staff to this success
motivate staff and focus on achieving outstanding strategic 
outcomes for students, businesses and professions, and our region and society
embed ongoing personal development for staff into the 
workplace
operate energetically and dynamically, in a customer-focused 
manner, prioritising innovation and agility
support and encourage innovation, with a healthy level of risk 
tolerance
understand what constitutes success, reward high 
performance and manage poor performance
engage with a range of stakeholder groups across the 
beneficiaries to ensure we are continually delivering value and 
anticipating their needs
  
11 Aston University   |   Strategy
Student numbers will increase slightly and with a focus on 
increasing the percentage of international and postgraduate 
taught students. 
Reducing the breadth of offerings/disciplines in teaching and 
research will sharpen and strengthen our offerings. This will put more weight behind our existing strengths and leverage 
our current resources, without reducing the overall volume 
of research and level of investment.
We will continue to strive for educational excellence and to 
provide students with an excellent educational experience. 
To ensure this, we expect our domestic tariff level and 
student to staff ratio to remain largely unchanged.
Two major themes of this strategy are the connections 
between Aston and the region and society we live in, and 
graduate employability and outcomes to differentiate us 
from our competitors. This will be reflected in an increased 
focus on employer partnerships including placement 
programmes, collaborative research, skill development and 
industry-building outreach. ReductionStudent numbers
Growth Current 
size
DecreaseStudent to staff ratio
Increase Current 
levelReductionBreadth of research 
focus
Growth Current 
breadthDecreaseVolume of research/ 
level of investment
Increase Current 
levelLessFocus on employer 
partnerships
More Current 
focusDecrease% international 
students
Increase Current % More 
specialisedBreadth of offerings/ 
discipline
Greater breadthCurrent 
mix Lower tariffDomestic tariff level
Higher tariff Current 
level
Implications for Aston 9. 
There are a number of key implications for the size and shape of Aston as a result of implementing this strategy.
Overview of key size and shape settings that result from Aston’s strategy
12 Aston University   |   Strategy
Conclusion and implementation 10. 
This strategic plan will begin from spring 2018 with the development of a full five-year implementation plan to deliver the initiatives.
This strategy represents an important marker for Aston and our future direction. We enjoy and appreciate our strong reputation 
and the range of significant outcomes we have achieved over the decades, in conjunction with our students, our partners and 
our communities. However, the external environment is constantly shifting. Throughout this strategy period, we may evolve our size, shape and features in response. Yet decisions will be driven at all times by how we can deliver what we do best, to serve our 
beneficiaries effectively.
Realising the aspiration in this strategy will be challenging but achievable. The Aston community as a whole will now devote its 
attention and resources to ensure its successful implementation.
13 Aston University   |   Strategy
ASTON  
STRATEGY
2018 to 2023
