STRATEGY 2030 BANGOR UNIVERSITYA Sustainable World for 
Future Generations
STRATEGY
2030
VISIONARYSTRATEGY 2030 VISIONARY
20  30
Our strategy is visionary in its scope and ambition 
and shares the directions we will take to animate the University community and its stakeholders for the next decade. 
2
STRATEGY 2030 VISIONARY
20  30Our people are at the heart of this strategy with four 
strategic priorities underpinning all that we do – research excellence; transformative learning experiences; an excellent student experience; and a thriving Welsh language and bilingual environment.
VISIONARY .Our strategy is ‘the light on the hill’, describing where we intend to be in 2030 and the journey we are embarking on to get there. It is not a detailed road map. The specifics of how we will move forward are the province of operational plans that will be developed as a response to our strategic directions as they emerge over the coming years.
At Bangor University we are working 
to be a force for good. Our goal is to inspire our academic community, our Professional Services teams, and our students to create a more sustainable world in alignment with our vision to drive success through transformative, innovative, impact-driven research and teaching. 
We believe this University has a role 
to play in society, building on our focus on discovery, sustainability, safeguarding the environment, and promoting economic, social, bilingual, and cultural vibrancy. As a research-led  
University and as individuals who care deeply about the world we live in, we want to contribute to solving the world’s challenges, such as climate change, health inequalities, and workforce development.
The University is strongly positioned 
as a research-led, entrepreneurial, bilingual University, of and for North Wales. As a successful institution, Bangor will develop the critical mass required to be a global player whilst exploiting economies of scale, and will be academically, financially, and operationally sustainable. We will focus on research and teaching of the highest quality to influence and have impact on the regional economy and the wider world. The University’s vision is growth-oriented, despite challenges posed by the operating environment as higher education emerges from the global COVID-19 pandemic.
Professor Iwan Davies
Vice-Chancellor
3
OUR
FUTURESTRATEGY 2030 OUR FUTURE
20  30
Bangor University, North Wales, celebrates and takes 
great pride in its rich, Welsh, and bilingual heritage and will continue to champion and contribute to the future development of North Wales through our campuses and collaborative ventures. 
4
As the only comprehensive research-led University in North 
Wales, we are committed to the discovery of new knowledge and its application for social and economic benefit. We will build further the quality of our research, investing in areas of strength and scale, engaging with global challenges, accelerating interdisciplinarity, and enabling our students to benefit from an inspiring and inclusive learning environment. STRATEGY 2030 OUR FUTURE
20  30
TRANSFORMATIVE.We will support a collegiate environment underpinning a culture of self-improvement among the whole University community. This will include developing paths for the interchange of academic talent - including faculty and students - with industry and more generally in economic, scientific, and cultural activity. 
We will enhance our world-class 
education programmes through the quality of our teaching while delivering an outstanding student experience that gives Bangor students a platform from which to develop rewarding careers and opportunities to make a real difference through their future contributions to society.As a global community asset, Bangor University will attract local, national, and international students, enhancing the culture and quality of life at home and beyond. Strategy 2030 firmly places Bangor as an institution that connects worldwide through collaborative academic provision and a portfolio of intellectual and cultural links and partnerships. As such we are an international University, and, in the post-pandemic era, we will be developing a refreshed and transformational internationalisation strategy.
5
As part of our commitment to enhancing 
our role in the linguistic, social, economic, and environmental strength of the region, we will develop pathways between further and higher education through key partnerships with the two further education colleges in North Wales. 
Our aim is to create a more seamless suite 
of vocational education and training with appealing routes into higher education. We will embrace digital learning and teaching to create an environment across our campuses that promotes community learning and provides a basis for underpinning the development of transnational education and a global academy with our partners wherever they are in the world.Bangor University must sit within the community of world-leading universities. As one of the most internationalised universities in Wales, we will add value in relation to industry, health, culture, the economy and civic mission. We will be a magnet for talented staff and students, and are committed to education that drives up skills, improves employment, health inequalities and earning opportunities, and will help to retain talent in our local communities, contributing to Wales as a successful bilingual nation.We will operate at pace and scale, focused on developing 
world-leading research and expertise with an emphasis on societal impact and collaboration. With an emphasis on industrial links - with both multi-national enterprises and the indigenous SME (small or medium-sized enterprise) community – the University will be a growth-oriented thought leader influencing and supporting the community of North Wales and beyond.
SINCE 1884STRATEGY 2030 OUR FUTURE
20  30
ENHANCE. 6
MISSION, VISION
AND VALUESSTRATEGY 2030 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES
20  30
7
A research-led University of and for North Wales, 
providing transformative learning experiences and nurturing a positive impact on society regionally, nationally, and internationally.STRATEGY 2030 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES
20  30
A globally connected University, realising opportunities for success through transformative, innovative, impact-driven research and teaching, with a focus on sustainability: safeguarding the environment, revitalising society’s health, and promoting economic, social, bilingual, and cultural vibrancy.OUR MISSION
OUR VISION
SINCE 1884
8
STRATEGY 2030 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES
20  30
Ambition
Inspired by our history and our people, we enable the extraordinary. We are courageous, ambitious for our University, our colleagues, and our students, as well as supporting the ambitions of our partners. 
Inclusivity
We provide equal access, equal rights, and equal justice to all. We will promote mutual regard for the rights and liberties of diverse people and their ideas, backgrounds, and approaches to the pursuit of knowledge and understanding.
Integrity
We act with honesty and transparency and will seek to collaborate in all we do. We will facilitate intellectual growth through academic freedom, creative expression and communication of truth, knowledge, social and moral development. 
Respect
We trust, value, empower and care for each other, and we hold ourselves accountable. As collaborators we will be responsive and will achieve more together. We will foster civic engagement and social responsibility that supports and enhances education, research, service-learning, culture, and quality of life on and beyond our campus environments in Welsh and English. SustainabilityWe are passionate about promoting a culture and scholarship of environmental stewardship, living in harmony, and caring for the world in ways that meet our economic, social, environmental, and cultural needs. Underpinned by our world-renowned research, we will support the development of Wales as a bilingual learning country with a knowledge driven economy for the benefit of the world and future generations. 
Transformation
As a place of academic endeavour, innovation, and transformation, we are driven to help enrich society. We are committed to excellence at all levels of the educational and creative experience and will support everyone in our University community to achieve their dreams and fulfil their potential.
Our values and guiding principles 
These six values and guiding principles are our cultural cornerstones, guiding our decision-making and how we work together as a University community.
CREATE. 9
FOUR PILLARS
FOUR THEMESSTRATEGY 2030 FOUR PILLARS FOUR THEMES
20  30
The University’s strategy is underpinned by four 
strategic pillars and four transformational themes. 10
STRATEGY 2030 FOUR PILLARS FOUR THEMES
20  30
The strategic pillars will sustain and progress our core 
endeavour to position the University as a driving force for higher 
education and the economy of North Wales, coupled with a 
vision that aims to be genuinely transformational, strengthening 
and promoting the University’s potential thematically aligned 
to our strengths and national policy priorities.
SUSTAINING AND PROGRESSING
Research
excellenceTransformative
learning
experiencesAn excellent
student
experienceA thriving Welsh
language and 
bilingual
environmentThe University’s strategy is underpinned by four 
strategic pillars and four transformational themes. 
STRENGTHENING AND PROMOTING
UNDERPINNED BYEconomic, social and civic impact
Global reach
Health and wellbeing
People and talent
Institutional sustainability
11
RESEARCH
EXCELLENCESTRATEGY 2030 RESEARCH EXCELLENCE
20  30
We will support the growth of our research base in 
areas of research excellence and scale and will publicly demonstrate the significant weight that we place on our research and impact activities. Our research will continue to be internationally excellent and societally relevant. FOUR PILLARS
12
We will also link research to our local environment so that 
its impact helps drive economic and social regeneration across the region.STRATEGY 2030 RESEARCH EXCELLENCE
20  30
EXCELLENCE.Global reputation Our reputation will be developed by focusing on research excellence that is acknowledged as internationally excellent. T o provide a credible differentiator, sustainability will underpin our research and we will establish a Global Centre of Excellence in Sustainability. We will encourage, support and reward interdisciplinary research and impact in Sustainability.Excellence at scale We will prioritise areas of research excellence that have existing or emerging scale. We will sustain increased levels of investment in our research infrastructure by establishing ‘quantum leap’ projects with the potential to have a transformative effect to advance our scale, and by pursuing opportunities aligned to more favourable funding outcomes. We will support interdisciplinarity through the co-location of cognate disciplines and facilities.
OUR PRIORITIES
13
STRATEGY 2030 RESEARCH EXCELLENCE
20  30
Transformative impact 
We will prioritise areas of research excellence that have the potential for transformative impact on economic, industrial, and social regeneration, and use our knowledge exploitation capabilities to support our teaching, civic mission, and employability priorities. Integrated knowledge exchange and commercialisation expertise within the University and its subsidiaries will enhance outcomes and performance. We will promote research and impact as a seamless, congruent activity, supported by an Integrated Research and Impact Support service and academic structures.
Skills development 
We will ensure that skills development is aligned with research excellence to help enhance and encourage inward investment, providing leadership across tertiary education in North Wales to build on the cornerstones of industrial need and applied technology research, together with agile and continuing training.Collaboration and partnership We will partner and collaborate with key stakeholders to realise opportunities afforded by funding sources associated with prevailing economic, industrial, and social regeneration strategies and initiatives. We will partner with charities, government bodies, and companies – from start-ups and SMEs to multinationals – in a collaborative, creative endeavour that translates knowledge and research into impact.
RESEARCH.OUR PRIORITIES
14
TRANSFORMATIVE 
LEARNINGEXPERIENCESSTRATEGY 2030 TRANSFORMATIVE LEARNING EXPERIENCES
20  30
We will provide our staff and students with the opportunity 
to develop their minds and interests through enriched and transformative workplace and learning experiences, underpinned by five core educational attributes - challenge, inquiry, application, collaboration, and self-direction. FOUR PILLARS
15
Our curriculum will be research-led and digitally enabled to 
address economic, health and societal challenges, and will foster civic responsibility through connection to society. STRATEGY 2030 TRANSFORMATIVE LEARNING EXPERIENCES
20  30
Regional and global significance We will ensure a broad-based, research-and practice-informed, bilingual curriculum portfolio that is evidence-informed and aligned to market demand, thorough curriculum and assessment reviews and the progression of ‘quantum leap’ projects to enhance the regional and global significance of our education provision.
Mobility and flexible learning 
We will develop and nurture academic partnerships to ensure progression of students to Bangor and build on existing collaborative transnational provision in Singapore, Malaysia, Bahrain, Uzbekistan, and China in new areas that support our ambitions. We will enhance the student learning experience by expanding high-quality placement opportunities, with a focus on widening access and accessibility, underpinned by flexible learning provision, such as multiple entry points, different delivery modes, and optional themed pathways covering topics including global citizenship, health and wellbeing, and sustainability.
Enhanced digital capabilities
We will develop our digital capabilities and ensure that all students, as part of their programmes, can engage in or experience digitally - or technology- driven research and innovation. We will embrace opportunities to combine the use of digital technology, with our transnational education provision and expertise in bilingualism, to develop the concept of the international classroom.
OUR PRIORITIES
16 RESPONSIBLE.
STRATEGY 2030 TRANSFORMATIVE LEARNING EXPERIENCES
20  30
Accelerated learning environment
We will ensure that teaching and learning methods are contemporary and facilitate learning and achievement, through a well-trained, supported, and rewarded teaching community. Our learning environment developments will be inclusive and evidence-based, drawing from sector best-practice, thus enabling those who teach to deliver a high-performance learning environment and enhance the student learning experience.
Enhanced student outcomes 
We will improve opportunities for students to develop and enhance their knowledge, skills, experience, and cultural agility in order that they achieve the highest possible academic and employment outcomes. We will raise the aspirational thinking of our students and their ability to articulate their potential, to support successful transition into, or development in, the world of work.The Bangor GraduateWe will develop the concept of the Bangor Graduate, as a global citizen with the knowledge, skills and attributes needed to navigate the changing world of work, in particular the digital workplace. The Bangor Graduate will be connected to society, promoting sustainability through safeguarding our environmental, social, economic, and cultural wellbeing, both in the present and for future generations.
CREATIVE.OUR PRIORITIES
17
AN
EXCELLENT  
STUDENT  
EXPERIENCESTRATEGY 2030 AN EXCELLENT STUDENT EXPERIENCE
20  30
We believe that all students should have the opportunity 
to shape their experiences at University. FOUR PILLARS
18
We are committed to delivering a personalised student 
experience for our students; this means providing support for all students to embrace opportunities, develop, and realise their ambitions.STRATEGY 2030 AN EXCELLENT STUDENT EXPERIENCE
20  30
COMMITTED.Student life We are committed to physical and virtual environments that are inclusive, support students’ lifestyle choices and provide high quality, sustainable facilities, and services regardless of location. We will include opportunities for student-centred services and facilities design. We will enhance opportunities for social learning and group working activities on our physical campuses and virtual learning environments, to ensure they meet the needs of our students, and we will provide a broad range of inclusive extra-curricular sports and social opportunities for students that go beyond traditional sport to include non-competitive and semi-competitive organised activities to provide the widestappeal across the student body.
OUR PRIORITIES
19
STRATEGY 2030 AN EXCELLENT STUDENT EXPERIENCE
20  30
OPPORTUNITY .Supporting our communities 
We will celebrate diversity and provide students with an experience that is meaningful and purposeful. Our students come from a broad range of backgrounds and cultures and have varying responsibilities and access needs; we will ensure our services and facilities are accessible and that students can relate to the opportunities that are available to them, across all levels of study. We will ensure that our world-class commitment to the Welsh language, a bilingual environment, and sustainability are embedded as the core principles of the Bangor student experience. The University will continue to support student volunteering activities to promote engagement between students and the community contributing towards a Wales of cohesive communities.Students as partners We will work collaboratively with our students, ensuring they remain at the heart of our decision-making, in shaping their education and student experience through student representation on our Committees and in our approach to strategic developments and the day-to-day running of the University. We will monitor and review our success through the Student Experience Strategy Group and will provide annual updates on progress to our students. We will continue to analyse student feedback through established survey initiatives and will demonstrate to our students how we respond to their feedback.
OUR PRIORITIES
SINCE 1884 20
A THRIVING 
WELSH LANGUAGE AND BILINGUAL ENVIRONMENTSTRATEGY 2030 A THRIVING WELSH LANGUAGE  
AND BILINGUAL ENVIRONMENT
20  30
Located in the heart of one of the most vibrant Welsh-speaking 
communities in Wales, we occupy a unique space in the social, cultural, and economic landscape. FOUR PILLARS
21
By further enhancing and strengthening our commitment 
to the Welsh language in teaching, research, community outreach and in the workplace, our aim is to ensure that Bangor University is a sector-leader for Welsh language provision and world-leading proponent of bilingualism, contributing to the Welsh Government’s long-term aim to reach a target of one million Welsh speakers by 2050.STRATEGY 2030 A THRIVING WELSH LANGUAGE  AND BILINGUAL ENVIRONMENT
20  30
SUPPORT .Our language, our workplace We will promote a world-leading bilingual workplace that facilitates opportunities for our people to conduct all aspects of work through the medium of Welsh, nurturing and supporting individuals to engage with and access Welsh, and fostering a positive and inclusive approach to the promotion and development of Welsh across the University. We will provide all our staff and students with the opportunity to develop and refine their language skills and will embed a Welsh language ethos as one of our core identities.Our students, our future We will create a sector-leading Welsh language student experience, growing and enhancing the opportunities for students to study through the medium of Welsh and the resources that support this. Through the development and refinement of our Welsh language curriculum, and through extending Welsh medium employability opportunities, we will provide our students with the skills to walk confidently into a range of careers, producing graduates who can make a meaningful and sustained contribution to Welsh life, and beyond.
OUR PRIORITIES
22
STRATEGY 2030 A THRIVING WELSH LANGUAGE  
AND BILINGUAL ENVIRONMENT
20  30
Social, economic, and 
cultural transformation We will align our Welsh research agenda with local, regional, and national priorities surrounding social, economic, and cultural transformation. Across a range of disciplines, we will strengthen our world-leading research around the Welsh language, literature, culture, bilingualism, and multilingualism, and continue to develop innovation in language technology. We will engage with local and national government, health agencies and the business community in North Wales, to ensure that our activities are relevant to the needs of stakeholders, language planners and policy makers, nationally and internationally.
Our communities 
We will strengthen our relationship with communities throughout North Wales by ensuring that our activities are relevant and recognisable to people living in the region, working with local groups and stakeholders in a collective initiative to deliver social and economic transformation. We will continue to grow our commitment to Welsh culture and the Arts and ensure that the reach of our acclaimed Arts and Innovation centre, Pontio, extends far beyond Bangor.OUR PRIORITIES
23
ECONOMIC, 
SOCIAL AND CIVIC IMPACTSTRATEGY 2030 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL,  
AND CIVIC IMPACT
20  30
Supporting a prosperous Wales, we envisage an innovation 
crescent, stretching from the Irish Republic to the Northern powerhouse of North West England with the University at its heart, driving a place-based innovation agenda. FOUR THEMES
24
We will support a wealth of civic mission activities – 
regionally, nationally, and internationally – and recognise these as a fundamental aspect of our core activities.STRATEGY 2030 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL,  AND CIVIC IMPACT
20  30
INNOVATIVE.OUR PRIORITIES
Social and economic prosperity We will provide thought leadership for North Wales by working collaboratively with regional partners, providing the critical research and innovation backbone to feed wider economic and societal impact. We will play a lead role in the post-pandemic recovery and growth of North Wales, influencing and supporting key industrial sectors and their supply chains. We will focus on sectors of regional significance and those with emerging potential for growth, working in partnership with public and private organisations to promote resilience and sustainability. We will specifically seek to play a lead role in the growth of a vibrant health and life sciences sector across the region.Supporting business and skills We will support regional workforce development through our undergraduate and postgraduate provision and the upskilling of the existing workforce through our Continuing Professional Development and professional qualifications programmes. We will lead a shared vision across tertiary education in North Wales to bridge across the further education/higher education boundaries and provide an alternative offer to established education and training routes. We will build on the success of M-Sparc by Bangor University, our Science Park, to support our aspiration for greater employability, start-up, and commercialisation across North Wales.
25
STRATEGY 2030 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL,  
AND CIVIC IMPACT
20  30Cohesive, resilient communities 
We will nurture cohesive and resilient bilingual communities, embedding civic engagement throughout our strategies and operations. We will ensure clear, effective, and regular stakeholder communication, to improve and enhance our relationships for mutual benefit. We will ensure that our research addresses regional, national, and global challenges and opportunities. We will support local businesses and suppliers as a principle of our procurement practices.An accessible University We will ensure that the University is an accessible space in the life of our local communities. We will develop and enhance our cultural activities for the benefit of the wider community through our Arts and Innovation centre, Pontio, and sector-leading on and off-campus community activities. We will enhance our links with regional school communities to develop our research activities and partnership working.
ACCESSIBLE.OUR PRIORITIES
26
GLOBAL
REACHSTRATEGY 2030 GLOBAL REACH
20  30
Our University is globally ambitious.FOUR THEMES
27
STRATEGY 2030 GLOBAL REACH
20  30Our University is globally ambitious and has a key role to 
play in international education and research partnerships, enabling broader international influence and connectivity for North Wales, and playing an active role in a globally responsible Wales.
GLOBAL.OUR PRIORITIES
International portfolio 
We will provide a globally influenced experience for students by developing and maintaining a curriculum that reflects international issues and perspectives. We will compliment this with a range of delivery modes with flexible entry points enabling international accessibility.International student recruitment We will increase the international student population in North Wales through a strategic, evidence-informed approach, focusing on appropriate target markets that best fit the University’s areas of expertise. This will include ensuring the development and maintenance of a diverse student body which contributes culturally as well as financially.
28
International partnerships 
We will work with Global Wales and align with UK and Welsh Government international strategies to increase relevance and impact, ensuring that the demands of the international market are understood, anticipated, and met. We will identify and develop collaborative partnerships that will contribute to the delivery of the University’s Mission and Vision and will expand the footprint and influence of the University world-wide. A diverse and sustainable portfolio of partnerships will be strategically important to the University; this will include research, transnational education, and student and staff exchanges that will enrich experience.Global citizenship We will develop the social impact of our graduates through an internationalised curriculum that enables all students, irrespective of nationality, to be equipped to be global citizens. We will remove barriers to multi-national student integration across cultures and languages and work pro-actively with international alumni to utilise their connections and expertise to mutual advantage. We will provide an environment that attracts international staff of the highest calibre to enrich the University community and our academic provision. We will promote global staff and student mobility, collaboration, and scholarship, and support engagement with post-BREXIT exchange initiatives.
SINCE 1884STRATEGY 2030 GLOBAL REACH
20  30
ENHANCE.OUR PRIORITIES
29
HEAL TH AND 
WELLBEINGSTRATEGY 2030 HEALTH AND WELLBEING
20  30
We are committed to creating a healthy work and 
learning environment for staff, students, and the wider University community. FOUR THEMES
30
Our ambition to establish a Medical and Health Sciences 
School by 2025 will enable the training of more medical and health professionals in North Wales and have a transformational impact on research capacity in the University, the health service, and in the regional Life Science sector.STRATEGY 2030 HEALTH AND WELLBEING
20  30
OUR PRIORITIES
Positive environments Using a holistic healthy University approach, we will support our staff to realise their potential, cope with the normal stresses of life, work productively and contribute to their community. In addition to raising awareness of our current provision, we will develop health and wellbeing training, balancing the responsibility of the employer and ownership by the individual, whilst promoting prevention and health equity. We will further embed flexible working to support professional and personal responsibilities and wellbeing.Medical and health sciences schoolWe will develop a medical and health sciences school for North Wales: a transformational, inter-professional, bilingual learning and training environment, with prevention and health equity at its core. Built on a foundation of research and scientific progress, we will inform education and skills portfolios, improve health outcomes, and drive economic ambition for North Wales through increased research capacity and increased leverage in respect of UK-wide Research & Development funding.
DEVELOPMENT . 31
STRATEGY 2030 HEALTH AND WELLBEING
20  30
Prevention and early intervention 
We will drive leading-edge research and practice in prevention and early intervention to address interrelated problems, such as a growing population, with an increasingly older age profile, and structural health inequalities across North Wales. The range and variety of socio-economic and physical conditions across North Wales is an opportunity for trialling new approaches to providing real-time feedback into research projects through our ‘living lab’ concept that will test approaches to improved prevention and early intervention. 
Wellbeing of future generations
We commit to sustainable health andwellbeing in higher education, informing progress and performance with evidence-based advice and partnership working, as well as promoting continuous improvement. We will embrace the goals in the Wellbeing of Future Generations (Wales) Act, reflecting on long-term impact, working better with people and communities, seeking to prevent problems, and ensuring a more joined-up approach. We recognise the importance of involving people with an interest in achieving our wellbeing goals and reaching out across our community to deliver these goals for the benefit of the whole community.Movement, physical activity, and sport The University recognises the important contribution of physical activity and sport towards positive physical and mental health wellbeing. We will nurture an inclusive approach to physical activity and sport for staff and students, collaborating with partners, and aligning with national policy to ensure sport and physical activity plays a part in development of our strategic priorities. Our sports and recreation facilities will play a central role in campus life, as well as supporting the University’s civic mission by providing valuable community assets to help enhance the health and wellbeing of students, staff, and the wider community.
OUR PRIORITIES
32
PEOPLE 
AND TALENTSTRATEGY 2030 PEOPLE AND TALENT
20  30
We will create an outstanding, diverse, and sustainable 
workplace that will promote the achievement of personal and institutional goals and a common purpose. FOUR THEMES
33
We will retain, recruit, support and promote talented and 
high-performing staff by creating an environment that will enable them to succeed. People are our greatest asset and we will support our staff to deliver sector-leading outcomes.STRATEGY 2030 PEOPLE AND TALENT
20  30
Professional standards We will embrace and support an environment that promotes positive values and behaviour as part of a diverse and enabling culture, championing the Welsh language, and creating a bilingual community of tolerance, dignity, and respect, with high professional standards. We will have a zero-tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment, or bullying. A focus on workload, wellbeing, and resilience, with access to resources, support, and facilities will embed a culture that promotes a sustainable and healthy work-life balance. 
Diversity and inclusivity  
We will continue to work towards the elimination of discrimination and advancing equality of opportunity, supporting staff to thrive in an inclusive and diverse, bilingual workplace.Leadership  
We will develop and support the growth of transformational and effective leadership, equipping our leaders and managers with the necessary skills, behaviours, and capacity to fulfil their responsibilities. We will develop a talent and succession pipeline which aligns with our long-term aims and aspirations.
Rewarding talent
We will attract, motivate, and engage with individuals to drive a high-performance culture where staff take responsibility for their own performance and development and adapt to continuous change. We will ensure that we encourage, support, and enable staff to acquire knowledge and skills, and develop new ways of working, to support and align individual aspirations to organisational goals. We will reward and recognise excellent contribution towards the accomplishment of the University’s goals.
OUR PRIORITIES
34
INSTITUTIONAL 
SUSTAINABILITYSTRATEGY 2030 INSTITUTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
20  30
We will put foundations in place to ensure that the 
University can achieve its growth ambitions by underpinning our strategy with sustainable enabling infrastructure, resources, and services. 
35
A culture of excellence, innovation, and a willingness to 
think differently and to continually review the way we work, will be critical to deliver modern, digital, effective, and efficient services.STRATEGY 2030 INSTITUTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
20  30
Financial resilience We will increase financial resilience and sustainability, and diversification of income, with a reduced dependence upon public funding. We will ensure all commercial provision provides value for money, considering other delivery arrangements, such as strategic sourcing, where this can enhance value for money. We will plan for a sustainable future, ensuring our operational business plans are aligned to the delivery of our long-term goals and the sustainability goals in the Wellbeing of Future Generations (Wales) Act.Marketing and brandWe will invest in access to insight and intelligence to enable the University to be evidence-informed in both our portfolio development and marketing and recruitment operations. We will create marketing and brand building skills and capacity which have ambition and which support engagement locally, nationally, and internationally, to raise the profile of the University, to not only support student recruitment but to underpin all aspects of University business.Campus masterplan We will establish an overall campus consolidation masterplan, establishing Pontio as the beating heart of our campus, and identifying opportunities to improve space utilisation, connectivity, and student experience alongside opportunities for surplus land disposal. Our campus masterplan will meet the needs of a post-pandemic higher education offer, supporting the University’s reconfigured academic structures and interdisciplinary academic endeavours. We will collaborate with the Bangor Strategic Partnership priorities, supporting the regeneration of the city of Bangor, and improving links between the University and the city. The University’s Environmental Management System is certified to the prestigious ISO14001:2015 environmental standard and will continue to support our commitment to environmental sustainability.
OUR PRIORITIES
36 FUTURE.
STRATEGY 2030 INSTITUTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
20  30Modern Professional Services 
We will ensure that service delivery is fit-for-purpose, matched to the needs of students, staff and other stakeholders. We will maintain sustainable services through the elimination of unnecessary costs, without undermining core services, through continually reviewing the purpose of all services and processes, minimising management overhead, and removing duplication and competition between services.Digital first We will facilitate the University’s strategy and sustainable ways of working through the provision of high-quality technology-based services, in the most cost-effective manner, delivering safe, reliable, accessible, and bilingual ICT services to support teaching and learning, research, the student experience, and all the University’s processes.
SUSTAINABLE.OUR PRIORITIES
37
OUR
GOALSSTRATEGY 2030 OUR GOALS
20  30
Our vision will deliver a number of high-level strategic 
goals during the period covered by the plan. 38
STRATEGY 2030 OUR GOALS
20  30
Our goals offer clarity of purpose, whilst retaining some 
degree of flexibility to remain relevant in an ever-changing 
political and operating environment.
Build market share of students
A sector-leading student experience
Enhanced Welsh language provisionResearch of scale 
and quality that is 
internationally 
recognised and 
underpinned by our 
Global Excellence in 
SustainabilityImprove graduate skills, 
employment, and job 
creation outcomesImproved performance 
in respected rankings 
that align to our 
mission, vision, 
and values
Increase life sciences 
research and 
innovation, 
underpinned by an 
interprofessional 
Health and Medical 
School for North WalesDeliver ambitious, 
transformative 
Campus and Digital 
infrastructure 
developmentsStrategic tertiary 
education partnerships 
across North Wales Financially sustainable and resilient
39
MEASURES 
OF SUCCESSSTRATEGY 2030 MEASURES OF SUCCESS
20  30
Progress against each of our goals will be articulated through our 
measures of success; these are underpinned by a framework of targets and key performance indicators, aligned to the four strategic pillars and four transformative themes, and aligned operationally through the University’s annual business planning round.
40
STRATEGY 2030 MEASURES OF SUCCESS
20  30Build market share of students -  Market share students recruited
Enhanced Welsh language provision-  Students studying 40 credits or more through the medium of Welsh
-  Welsh-speaking staff
Improved performance in respected rankings that align to our mission, vision, and values-  Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide-  Times Higher Education World University Rankings
Strategic tertiary education partnerships across North Wales -  Students progressing from regional FE-  Students on regional FE/HE collaborative provision
Financially sustainable and resilient-  Cash reserves-  Cash reserves as % of staff costs
A sector-leading student experience -  % Students satisfied with teaching quality
Deliver ambitious, transformative Campus and Digital infrastructure developments- % of buildings with excellent/good functional suitability
Research of scale and quality that is internationally recognised and underpinned by our Global Excellence in Sustainability-  REF GPA/Power-  Field Weighted Citation Index-  Average size of grants awarded
Improve graduate skills, employment, and job creation outcomes-  Graduate Outcomes: % in employment / further study-  Longitudinal Education Outcomes: sustained employment
Increase life sciences research and innovation, underpinned by an interprofessional Health and Medical School for North Wales-  Research active staff in Health & Medical School-  Value of life sciences related research grants-  Student enrolments in Health & Medical School
41
DELIVERYSTRATEGY 2030 DELIVERY
20  30
This strategy sits at the top of the hierarchy of our strategy framework, 
providing a long-term vision for our medium-term strategic themes (sub-strategies) and our annual business planning that will articulate how we will operationalise our long-term strategic vision. These are supplemented by strategic initiatives or ‘quantum leap projects’ – significant initiatives which are identified to accelerate the realisation of our strategic vision. 
42
STRATEGY 2030 DELIVERY
20  30
A rigorous process of goal mapping’ 
ensures that the short-to medium-term goals and KPIs are aligned to delivery of the long-term goals outlined in this strategy. The University’s corporate and operational risk registers also provide qualitative insight aligned to each level of the strategy framework.
The strategic plan is approved 
and overseen by the Council, the University’s governing body; the University Executive team, supported by its strategy groups, approves, and has oversight of the strategic themes and annual business planning. The Council receives assurance on the delivery of short to medium term goals and KPIs through annual reviews of strategy and performance, which are scrutinised by its Finance & Strategy Committee.The Executive team will consult staff and students on the development of the strategic plan and strategic themes and ensure that the outcomes of strategy and performance reviews are clearly communicated. Through line management and/or representation structures, staff and students will have the opportunity to contribute to the annual business planning process and influence the development and monitoring of operational plans. 
The annual business planning 
process will determine the allocation of resource which will be aligned to delivery of the University’s KPIs, goals and long-term strategic vision, and will enable collaboration and consistency between academic and professional service areas.
Driven by strategy
Drives business planningStrategic Initiatives
“Quantum leap projects”Strategic Plan
Strategic Themes
Strategic PlanningA performance framework is aligned to this hierarchy, comprising the goals and measures of success incorporated in the strategy itself, and underpinned by a richer set of short-to medium-term goals and key performance indicators (KPIs) aligned to the strategic themes and annual business plans. 
43
Bangor University
Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG
Bangor University is a Registered Charity: No. 1141565
WWW.BANGOR.AC.UK
