 
 
Birmingham 2030  
Strategic Framework  

 
Our enduring purpose  
The University of Birmingham was founded on the vision of Joseph 
Chamberlain in 1900 to provide a university for the people of 
Birmingham, ‘a great school of universal instruction…taking all 
knowledge in its province’. This philosophy has defined and shape d us 
as an institution ever since, founded on social responsibility and equality 
of opportunity for all.  
We believe that universities such as Birmingham are central to a functioning 
democracy, vital to creating a prosperous and just society, and essential  for a 
thriving city, region and nation. Our society depends on universities because they 
are powerful and independent engines of research, development and innovation, 
places where cultures are enriched, ideas generated, and social capital created. 
They ar e where the minds, capacities, and capabilities of current and future 
generations develop and are sharpened. Universities open up learning to all, help to 
shape a more inclusive society, and make prosperity possible.  
The University of Birmingham is an aca demic community of staff and students, 
alumni and partners, a place for open, critical thinking, and the creation, sharing, and 
dissemination of knowledge. For those who study here, the experience of exploring 
that knowledge with fellow students and academ ics is transformative. We are a 
university that has always sought to teach, test, extend, and apply knowledge in the 
broadest range of subjects, and to the highest standards of excellence. This breadth 
allows us to bring together diverse academic disciplin es to stimulate fresh 
perspectives and ideas, and to translate those into solutions and interventions that 
make a lasting difference to the world.  
In this environment, freedom of speech is fundamental - the ability of all our 
members freely to challenge p revailing orthodoxies, query the positions and views of 
others and to put forward ideas that may sometimes be radical or dissenting in their 
formulation, all within an atmosphere of mutual respect.  
This enduring purpose will continue to shape the Universi ty as we move ahead into 
our next chapter. We will celebrate what we know, remain curious about what we do 
not yet know, and will share our knowledge generously and rigorously with our 
students, collaborators, and wider society. As we continue to find new expressions of 
our civic purpose, we are proud that the University is a great global institution, 
 
working with a diverse and vibrant city. Our doors are firmly open, welcoming the 
best to Birmingham, and taking the best of Birmingham to the world.  
Birmingham 2030: Our ambition  
 
During the last decade, the University of Birmingham has been transformed. Our 
strong emphasis on intellectually rigorous education and pioneering research across 
the full breadth of disciplines has led our students to attain increasingly impressive 
outcom es, and our research has enjoyed growing global significance and societal 
impact. We have a remarkable platform on which to build, yet there is more we can 
achieve.  
Over the next decade, our aspiration is to establish Birmingham in the top 50 
of the world ’s leading universities.  
This Strategic Framework sets out how we will pursue this highly -challenging 
ambition. With world -class research and outstanding global education as our core 
mission, we will strive to increase the volume and quality of our resear ch to make an 
even greater difference to the world around us. We will be the UK’s exemplary civic 
university, remaining firmly committed to our foundations in the highly diverse 
communities, people, and economy of the city of Birmingham and the West 
Midlan ds. We will maintain our financial strength to enable investment in our 
academic mission, allowing us to make the most of the extensive breadth and quality 
of the University’s academic disciplines. We will take full advantage of our signature 
projects, inn ovation sites, and capital developments to make a lasting impact in all 
the regions in which we operate, and globally.  
This is a demanding task and we must recognise the scale of the challenges we 
must set ourselves if we are to succeed.  
The global envir onment for research -intensive universities is increasingly complex 
and competitive. Universities likes ours now operate from multiple international 
locations, teach and recruit highly -mobile students and academics from around the 
world, collaborate extensi vely, receive income from multiple sources, and operate 
complex research infrastructure. Leading international universities have a number of 
large -scale, globally -recognised academic strengths. Importantly, the academic 
quality of top universities underpin s a wider reputation that secures their international 
stature.  
 
The Covid pandemic has presented exceptional challenges. We are proud that our 
response to the pandemic has demonstrated the impressive resilience of the 
University and its people. At the same time, we know that it will leave a legacy for 
society and the economy from which it may take several years to recover. The 
breadth we enjoy at Birmingham will allow us to respond by shaping policy, 
supporting economic recovery, understanding cultural chang e, and creating 
innovative solutions to the challenges we will face.  
The UK’s long -established position in global higher education is increasingly 
challenged internationally, with significant competition for the best academics, 
students, and research fundi ng. For UK universities, Brexit has also required 
renegotiation of our relationships with Europe and the wider world. In the coming 
years, UK higher education policy is likely to experience more constrained financial 
settlements, accompanied by greater gov ernment intervention in research priorities 
and education programmes: this will require us to prioritise carefully.  
The prominence of universities globally places them under greater scrutiny, 
frequently at the centre of ‘culture wars’ and in the context of  a political populism that 
underappreciates the value of higher education. Students increasingly perceive their 
relationship with their university as a consumer. Together, these factors lead to 
increased regulatory burden, public accountability, and politi cal pressure.  
These are the long -term trends within which this framework is situated. We face 
these challenges with confidence, knowing that we have strong foundations, 
exceptional capability amongst our people, and longstanding financial strength. 
Great universities draw on their strengths to chart their own course: we will remain 
confident in the course set out in this framework.  
Our six pillars  
 
Research that matters  
 
In the last decade, we have made substantial progress in the quality, ambition, and 
impact of our research. We will build on this platform as we continue to increase the 
delivery of Research that Matters : research with outcomes that are important to other 
people, organisations, and academic fields, and are widely disseminated to achieve 
lasting, transformative impact in the world.  
 
 
Our value to society is grounded in the authority and breadth of our core disciplines. 
By generating new knowledge and underst anding of the world that we live in, our 
research outcomes will lead to positive change. Our distinctive and broad research 
portfolio will span from ground -breaking discoveries, interpretation and critique, in 
areas such as Particle and Astro - Physics, Gen omic Biology, and Textual Editing, to 
research that translates our expertise and capabilities for more immediate economic, 
societal, and cultural benefit, for example Green Transport, Maternal Health, 
Regional Economic Development, and Shakespeare Studies.   
We will use our extensive disciplinary breadth and research expertise to establish 
Birmingham as a leading university internationally for collaborative and 
interdisciplinary research that addresses contemporary challenges, including post -
Covid recovery a nd pandemic resilience, and the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals - such as Gender Equality, Clean Water and Sanitation, Sustainable Cities 
and Quality Education. We will exemplify our roots as a civic university, addressing 
cultural, societal, and economic  issues in our city, region, and nationally in areas 
such as Youth Mental Health, the Circular Economy, and effective utilisation of 
Health and Genomics Data.  
We will enable our talented researchers to be even more productive in their research 
endeavours,  creating an inclusive, supportive, and ‘fizzing’ environment where 
researchers at all career stages can flourish. They will be supported by Professional 
Services  and technical teams who are integrated into our research culture and goals, 
sharing the recognition and celebration of our successes. Through our distinctive 
PhD training, and development of early -career academic staff, we  will attract and 
train the next generation of talented researchers.  
We will ensure that the symbiotic relationship between research and education is 
meaningful to our students and staff and that our university is recognised as a place 
where world -class research and education, and the delivery of impact, are mutually 
inspiring and reinforcing.  
Our Birmingham 2030 goals are to : 
• Grow our research excellence by increasing the number and scale of 
our globally -recognised research themes.   
• Deliver research that matters more , with far-reaching impact.  
• Influence and respond to regional, national and international research 
priorities.   
 
• Increase and diversify research funding to enable more ambitious and 
impactful research.   
Underpinning these g oals our key priorities will be:  
Focusing investment in our key research themes  
We will invest to build and sustain these strengths, utilising our extensive disciplinary 
breadth and interdisciplinary capabilities to build critical mass, and to become worl d 
leaders in a select number. We will respond quickly and effectively to funder calls, 
government needs, business, the NHS, and third sector, allowing us to build world -
class research infrastructure, attract global talent, and nurture high quality, diverse  
research teams with outstanding academic leadership. The Birmingham in Action  
campaign will prioritise these themes, ensuring they benefit from exceptional alumni 
and philanthropic support.  
Building impact through our interdisciplinary capabilities  
Utilising the strength of our Institute for Global Innovation  and establishing new 
interdisciplinary institutes, we will reduce barriers to internal and external 
collaboration, sharing and extending research methodologies su ch as data science 
and open research across disciplines. We will convene research teams that combine 
approaches from across the University to tackle contemporary challenges in areas 
such as Urban Renewal, Inclusive Education, and the Societal and Legal 
Implications of New Technologies. We will introduce more interdisciplinarity into our 
PhD programmes.  
Creating an environment for individuals and teams to flourish and be 
productive in their research  
We will support our researchers to deliver more, higher qua lity research outcomes, 
with an increased emphasis on knowledge sharing, mentoring, wellbeing and 
research integrity. Our systems and infrastructure will be tailored to support the 
breadth of our research, and our Professional Services  (including technicians) will be 
valued in playing their full role.   
Working more closely with research funders, government, and other 
stakeholders  
We will shape evolving priorities in key research domains such as Sustainable 
Energy, Advanced Clinical Trials Methods and Translational Medicine, Superdiverse 
Populations and Regional Leadership. We will enhance the number and quality of 
 
our strategic rel ationships, utilising our extensive alumni base to support these 
partnerships.  
Enhancing the benefits that our broad education portfolio brings to our 
research  
We will develop greater mutual benefit between our research themes and 
educational programmes, increasing the availability of student research projects with 
clear links to the University’s research themes, engaging students in research impact 
and public engagement activities, and aligning degree and Continuing Professional 
Development pr ogrammes with our research expertise.  
Education for sustainable futures  
 
Birmingham has a long history of welcoming students from all backgrounds and 
nationalities to study in a comprehensive range of disciplines.  
Our students are intellectually curious, academically and personally ambitious, and 
keen to be challenged as well as supported. In recent years, through a combination 
of the quality of our academic teaching, our investments in learning spaces, support 
and wellbeing, and student facilities, our students have achieved increasingly 
impressive degree and employment outcom es. We build on these foundations as we 
build a distinctive, exciting, and innovative approach to our education that reflects 
our global ambitions.  
Learning in a research -intensive, global university is transformative. Underpinned by 
cutting -edge knowledge , our education will be intellectually challenging, inclusive, 
and developmental. Our programmes will be taught by leading researchers, allowing 
the next generation of leaders, innovators, problem -solvers and citizens to interact 
with, understand, and infl uence, the latest discoveries and ideas. These are defining 
features of education in a research -intensive environment at a global top 50 
university.  
Wider changes in society will have an impact on future employment, and this will 
inform our education over  the next ten years. Major challenges and opportunities will 
arise from the Covid pandemic and other societal changes, along with a growing 
international focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and the so -called 
fourth industrial revolution. We will  equip students to join talented peers and alumni 
globally to lead and shape these agendas, reflecting the future needs of employers.   
 
Our students come from all backgrounds. We will deliver education in -person across 
our world -class campuses, in transnat ional partnerships, and through our digital 
platforms. This blended approach will enable us to provide a sustainable model of 
education to meet the needs of undergraduate and postgraduate students from the 
UK and around the world. We aim for our education to be increasingly flexible and 
accessible, supported by an enhanced digital approach. Our overriding ambition is to 
provide an outstanding education experience for all our students.  
We will use the exceptional breadth of the University to offer a wide ra nge of 
academic disciplines, whilst also providing interdisciplinary opportunities which 
prepare students to prosper as citizens and become highly employable graduates, 
equipped to succeed in their chosen careers and life choices.  
Our Birmingham 2030 goal s are to : 
• Develop a distinctive research -intensive approach to education.  
• Provide students with a transformative education.   
• Support a thriving, inclusive, and global student community.   
• Nurture an environment which values outstanding and innovative teach ing.  
Underpinning these goals our key priorities will be:  
Incorporating active engagement with research across our curriculum  
We will prioritise the development of research skills at all levels of study to enhance 
students’ learning and employability, and ensure all students are taught by leading 
researchers. We will provide interdisciplinary learning opportunities linked to our 
research objectives, and will engage students, alumni, and employers in our 
institutional research ambitions. We will introduce new models for teaching and 
assessment setting out our approach to research -intensive teaching and learning, 
informed by alumni,  employers and global peers.  
Enhancing the quality and attractiveness of our education  
Grounded in research at all levels of study, we will offer a challenging and inclusive 
education, centred on the needs, interests, and aspirations of our students. We will 
blend the experience of in -person learning at our world -class campuses with high 
quality, digital learning, supported by our Digital Strategy.  The depth of our individual 
academic disciplines will provide students with greater opportuniti es to study across 
disciplines, more flexible and personalised study opportunities, and meaningful 
engagement with global challenges. We will support this by updating our programme 
 
architecture to support innovative curriculum design, as well as upgrading our 
student administration systems and enhancing our approach to timetabling.  
Delivering a new approach to employability  
Our Employability Strategy will develop a range of new personal and career 
development opportunities within the curriculum, aligning te aching and assessment 
with the attributes that employers are looking for in our graduates. Drawing on the 
expertise of employers and alumni, we will support students to make connections to 
the world around them, and will deliver University employability mo dules in areas 
such as sustainability, inclusivity, data science, leadership, and digital skills.  
Improving the experience and outcomes for our diverse student community  
We will continue to attract students from all backgrounds and numerous countries to 
access our education. We will work with our students and staff to address gaps in 
access to the University, and will develop new approaches to support our whole 
community of home and international students, from a wide range of backgrounds, to 
explore and r each their potential. Working in partnership with the Guild of Students, 
we will prioritise academic, mental health and wellbeing support, as well as wider 
personal development opportunities.   
Prioritising and rewarding outstanding teaching  
We will seek t o attract leading academics who enjoy the intellectual challenge of 
sharing their research expertise through teaching our students. We aim to create a 
stimulating environment in which exceptional teaching is valued and rewarded, 
supported by innovative car eer-long professional development through our Higher 
Education Futures Institute . We will engage with global peers to ensure we are both 
informed and v isible, developing new skills in digital education, programme 
leadership, personal academic tutoring, and inclusive pedagogies.  
Engagement and Impact  
The next decade will see dramatic changes in the way people work, learn, and live.  
As a civic university,  grounded in the communities around us, we will be central both 
to shaping and responding to these changes.  We will provide a model of how a 
global university can create meaningful change in the world, demonstrably improving 
the economy, society, and the e nvironment, and contribute to human health and 
wellbeing. We already have unique innovation assets, cultural venues, international 
 
reach, and creative capacity.  We will draw on these to maximise the difference we 
make to individual lives and society.  
We aim to build partnerships that connect our research and education activities and 
translate our expertise into real -world outcomes. Our partners will know us as an  
engaged and relevant university, which is easy to work with and understands their 
needs. Through collaboration, we will tackle the key  challenges  of the  next ten years, 
including inequality and exclusion, global health  threats, climate change, the 
managem ent and regulation of emerging technologies, and the fourth industrial 
revolution. We will shape regional, national, and international agendas, and 
anticipate and respond to the challenges of the future.  
All members of our community, from students to prof essors and members of the 
Professional Services , will be proud of and actively contribute to the many ways in 
which the Universi ty makes a difference to the world around us. Our Birmingham in 
Action  campaign will allow us to draw on our extensive and influential alumni 
community to enhance our impact.  
 
Our Birmingham 2030 goals are to:  
• Become the best university in the UK for innovation , capitalising on our 
distinctive breadth of disciplines and innovation sites.  
• Actively engage our local communities to enhance our education and 
research.  
• Equip our students to make a difference in the world throughout their 
lives.  
Underpinning these goals our key priorities will be:  
Maximising the benefits  we draw from our major sites and assets  
Using our wide disciplinary breadth, we will take full advantage of these assets to 
attract talented academics, work with strategic partners, translate excellent research 
into innovations and practical solutions, an d grow our global reputation. Major assets 
include: Birmingham Health Innovation Campus ; The Exchange ; Birmingham 
Institute of Forest Research ; Manufacturing Technology Centre ; High Temperature 
Research Centre ; the Shakespeare Institute ; Barber Institute ; Tyseley Energy 
Innovation Park ; and the University of Birmingham Dubai . 
 
Incorporating impact from the outset of all our major initiatives and research 
programmes  
From research grants to new buildings and venues, investment in academic 
capacity, and curriculum design, we will embed engagement in research, draw 
connections between research and education, and grow our research 
commercialisation. We aim for every researcher to have the tools and a vision for 
how their research will matter t o others, both now and in the future. We will support 
strong pathways from ideation and discovery to translation and delivery in areas 
such as Quantum Technologies and Bio -medical Engineering.  
Creating a wide range of opportunities for our students to make  a difference 
locally, nationally, and internationally  
We will support development of the skills required for fulfilling careers, and to lead, 
shape and solve the world’s pressing challenges. We will draw on our size and 
academic breadth to provide opportu nities across all disciplines for internships and 
placements, and o ur student incubator hub at The Exchange will enhance 
opportunities for student enterprise and entrepreneurship.  
Seizing major engagement opportunities for Birmingham, Dubai and our other 
locations  
We will use events such as the 2022 Commonwealth Games , the Global Challenges 
Forum , and the Dubai Expo to maximise visibility and benefit for the University, our 
students, r esearch, and the city more generally. We will work with the city to attract 
and shape future major events that have a global impact.  
Engaging and working with our highly diverse local communities  
Our campuses, assets and venues will be open, places for col laboration with our 
partners, with a focus on active engagement of communities and the public. Through 
our Birmingham in Action  campaign, we will support staff and students to volunteer 
one million hours. We will provide our academics with resources, opportunities and 
inspiration to help them develop new and exciting ways to engage the public with 
their work.  
Working across disciplinary boundaries t o make it easy to engage with the 
broad expertise of the University  
Our academic expertise and voice will be recognised by potential partners and 
policy -makers as providing an essential ‘one stop shop’ for  work across disciplines 
and sectors. We will be a University that contributes to the evidence -base in a broad 
 
range of policy areas, develops solutions to challenges, and  creates and 
commercialises new intellectual property. We will shape public debate an d policy to 
address regional, national, and global challenges.  
Civic and global  
Having been founded as the first civic university in the UK, a university “for 
Birmingham and the district”, we are now also a global university, leading locally, 
nationally, and internationally.  
These twin roles as an exemplary civic and a leading global  university are mutually 
reinforcing: together, they strengthen our research excellence, student opportunities, 
and reputation. Our civic credibility in Birmingham, Dubai, Guangzhou, and other 
locations provides the foundation for our global reach. This gl obal influence in turn 
brings significant benefits to the regions in which we operate, and allows us to bring 
new insights, solutions, and opportunities for our students, our academic community, 
our city and region, and the world.  
With our ambition to be a leading global university, we will tackle global challenges, 
so that our research extends beyond regional and national boundaries to have 
international impact. Our students form an international community, and we will 
provide them with an outstanding  international experience, both at their home 
campuses and through high levels of mobility. Importantly, we will build the 
confidence across the University to project our areas of truly world -leading strength.  
As an anchor institution in the city of Birmingham , our Civic University Agreement 
captures how we will work with our local partners to continue to bring deep cultural, 
social, and economic benefits to our city and region. Elsewhere, we will play a 
leading role in delivering Dubai’s vision , and will conti nue to bring demonstrable 
economic benefit  to through our partnerships in our sister city of Guangzhou, China. 
In India, we will collaborate across education, healthcare, environmental sciences, 
global surgery, sports science, and more , to improve lives in  India and across the 
world.  
The challenges faced by the locations in which are operate are those of the world, 
allowing us to speak with authority into the world’s challenges. We aim to build 
further the strong bridges between our civic and global engagem ent, making 
advances in shared challenges of regional, national and global importance in areas 
such as Interfaith Studies, Maternal Health, Social Inequality, and Air Pollution. We 
 
will provide our students with global citizenship skills, while  enabling th em to engage 
actively with their local communities.  
Our Birmingham 2030 goals are to:  
• Welcome the best international students, staff, and partners to Birmingham 
and our global locations.  
• Take the best of Birmingham to the world, expanding our local, nation al, 
and global partnerships.  
• Make a major contribution to our city and each of the regions in which we 
operate.  
Underpinning these goals our key priorities will be:  
Reinforcing our position as an exemplar of a civically -engaged university   
We will bring cultural, social and economic benefits in each of our contexts. This 
includes working closely with major partners such as Birmingham City Council, the 
West Midlands Combined Authority and Birmingham Health Partners to deliver the 
commitments of our C ivic University Agreement ; playing a central role in the 
ambitions of Dubai and the UAE; and extending our impact in China, Europe, North 
America, and India.  
Nurturing current and new local, national, and global partnerships and 
networks   
We will expand  the University’s global reach, drawing on our major research 
strengths  to work closely with industry, academic, public and third sectors partners, 
in order to grow our research and education opportunities.  We will work with our city 
and region to pr ovide solutions to local, national and global challenges in areas such 
as rail, advanced manufacturing, energy, and sustainable business.  
Projecting our world -class strengths, locally and internationally   
We will raise our national and international reput ation by equipping our staff with the 
knowledge and confidence to promote the University; by enabling our students to be 
our best advocates; and by engaging our alumni as ambassadors. All of our 
campuses and locations will benefit from our international re ach and our convening 
power will bring together people and organisations to host debates of global 
importance, leading conferences and events,  such as the Global Challenges Forum.  
 
Equipping our students to engage locally and think globally   
We will attract  growing numbers of the very best students from around the world and 
will provide all our students with the  option of studying or working abroad, to deepen 
their intercultural understanding and skills. They will be models of how to be both 
local and global  citizens.  Our students will contribute to their communities through 
volunteering, internships, entrepreneurship, and other regional initiatives.  
Building on our significant contributions to the wider education system   
We will continue to support the dist inctive mission of the University of Birmingham 
School , develop the National College for Advanced Transportation and 
Infrastructure , and train a wide range of health professionals to lead and innovate 
within the NHS . We will explore further opportunities to grow high -quality educational 
opportunities at all levels for excellent students  in the regions that we operate.  
People and culture  
Achieving the global ambitions of our Strategic Framework depends on our people: 
leading edge researchers, inspiring teachers, and high -quality Professional Services  
and technical staff support.  
We are fortunate to build on strong foundations of highly talented and engaged 
colleagues, who are committed to the core purposes of res earch and education, and 
who share the institution’s ambitions. Our staff have high levels of engagement and 
pride in the University.  
We will capitalise on this platform by seeking to build a culture which is still more 
ambitious and high -performing, but also supportive and inclusive. We will seek to 
attract exceptional groups in our major research and education themes, whilst 
creating a culture in which all speak with the confidence and knowledge about the 
institution, reflecting the pride and reputation of being part of a major global 
university. With a focus on the development of people and teams, this culture will be 
enabled by effective leaders across the University who encourage career 
progression, staff who take responsibility for their own professio nal development and 
wellbeing, and flexibility and trust in how work is undertaken.  
Being part of an academic campus -based community is central to the attraction of 
working for the University of Birmingham, enabling shared learning, formal and 
informal in teraction, social opportunities, creativity, and collaboration within and 
 
across disciplines and roles. These qualities contribute to a vibrant culture for 
research and education, stimulating interdisciplinary thinking, and supporting 
collaboration within the University and beyond.  
Our culture is based on our shared values , which we seek to embody throughout 
the organisation:  
Ambitious  We are confident in the University of Birmingham and project this 
globally. We are focused on our goals, are clear about our 
strengths, and pursue our own direction. We are bold and take 
intelligent risks.  
 
Innovative   We enjoy being the first to do things. Inspired by our Birmingham 
heritage , we are resourceful, creative, grounded, and practical, 
and seek to make a real and positive difference to the world 
around us.   
 
Open  We welcome colleagues, collaborators, and students from across 
the world to work and study with us. We are committed to 
academic freedom, freedom of speech, and equality of opportunity 
for all. We expect everyone to act with sensitivity, respect,  and 
fairness.  
 
Collaborative  The major challenges facing our city, nation, and the world cannot 
be solved if we act alone. We enhance our research and 
education by pursuing creative partnerships within and beyond the 
University.  
 
Responsible  We operate  with transparency, trust, and respect. We value our 
role as an anchor institution for Birmingham. We strive to be an 
excellent employer, to reduce inequalities in access to education, 
and to place sustainability at the heart of our work.  
 
 
Our Birmingham 2030 goals are:  
• Attract, develop and retain great people.  
• Promote an intellectually stimulating and collaborative environment for 
research and education.  
• Nurture a culture that provides opportunities for all to flourish and succeed .  
 
 
Underpinning these goals our key priorities will be:  
Providing clear, flexible  career routes for academic staff   
As a leading global university, we will seek to attract the best academics from around 
the world. Through the refreshed Birmingham Academic Career Framework, we will 
provide clear and attractive career paths for research,  education, engagement and 
impact. We will provide comprehensive support and career development for our early 
career academics.  
Building further on the successful ethos and capabilities of Professional 
Services   
We will run effective and efficient services  to support our research and education 
priorities, holding the contributions of all groups of staff in high esteem. Our 
Birmingham Professional  programme will support the ambitions in this framework, 
including for our support staff and the technical community.  
Delivering the objectives of the University’s recently renewed Equality Scheme  
We will promote diversity in all its forms. We will  significantly improve the 
representation of women and ethnic minorities, particularly at senior levels, and will 
reduce gender and ethnicity pay gaps.  
Investing in leadership development   
We will ensure all our leaders are equipped to motivate and sustain  high 
performance in research and education, build effective and collaborative teams, 
support wellbeing, and create a stimulating intellectual environment. We will invest in 
training and mentoring for those taking on influential roles, and expect our senio r 
leaders to influence nationally and internationally.  
Placing wellbeing at the heart of our decision making   
We will emphasise, support, and enhance wellbeing for the greater good of the 
institution and our colleagues. We will create a culture where staff are actively 
encouraged to take ownership of their wellbeing and support those around them. We 
will facilitate flexibility in how people work and support colleagues to achieve a 
balance of work and personal commitments. This will be underpinned by cr eative 
use of space and digital developments as part of the capital programme.  
 
Sustainability  
As a research -intensive University founded on social responsibility, we have the 
expertise and partnerships to play a significant role in tackling global sustainability 
challenges.  
In line with our aspiration to be a leading global University, we will emb ed 
sustainability in all of our activities, seeking to change society and the environment 
positively through our research and education. Our ambition is to deliver 
sustainability through pioneering research and innovative education, the behaviour 
and actio ns of our students and staff, and engagement with our local communities.  
Our national and international collaborations will draw on our broad disciplinary and 
interdisciplinary strengths to address the major global challenges of our time, 
expressed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We will utilise our 
expertise and our extensive network of partners to take a scientific approach to 
building and adapting our campuses at Edgbaston and Dubai to be innovative and 
smart, efficient, and flexible.  
Our Birmingham 2030 goals are to:  
• Use our research and education to make a major global contribution to 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals .  
• Collaborate with the Birmingham, Dubai, and their wider regions to 
tackle sustainability.   
• Achieve net zero carbon for scope 1 and 2 by 2035, and overall by 2045.  
Underpinning these goals our key priorities will be:  
Using major University initiatives to develop and share our research and 
impact on sustainability   
Birmingham’s contribution to research in sustainability will impact globally, including 
through The Exchange , COP26 , the Forum for Global Challenges , and the 
Commonwealth Games . Through initiatives such as the Institute for Global 
Innovation , the Birmingham Institute for Forest Research , and our new sustainability 
research institute, we will address the UN Susta inable Development Goals, from 
discovery research through to changing the world, in areas such as mitigating 
climate change, creating and marketing technological solutions, and developing 
more sustainable cities.  
 
Using the UN Sustainable Development Goals  to develop educational material 
for each discipline   
We will equip our students to be knowledgeable practitioners of sustainability, 
ensuring our courses address sustainability in the context of each subject. We will 
enable our graduates to be global citi zens, insightful leaders, and contributors to a 
more sustainable future in their chosen career and their lives. We will draw on our 
academic breadth to develop programmes on climate change and sustainable 
solutions, from natural to social capital.  
Contrib uting to sustainability locally through collaboration with our city and 
region   
We will expand our activities on the Tyseley Energy Innovation Park  to create and 
test new technologies that will move energy in Birmingham and elsewher e to net 
zero carbon, including energy storage, the cold economy, the decarbonisation of 
heat, and recycling. Through The Exchange  we will engage our loc al communities in 
key issues around sustainability.  
Developing sustainable, smart campuses and ways of working   
We will work with our industrial partners to use technology to support our net zero 
carbon goal, running our campuses more sustainably, reducing  emissions and 
optimising our campus for our community and the planet. Our Dubai campus will 
embrace sustainable practices, providing an exemplar building that can adapt to 
changes in technology, learning and climate. Utilising technology and mobile 
applic ations, students and staff will be able to maximise their efficiency, working 
smarter. We will continue our commitment to maintaining high environmental, social 
and governance standards across our investment portfolios.  
Supporting staff and students to be knowledgeable about issues of 
sustainability   
We will support our community to consider the personal actions they can take to 
reduce their carbon footprint and contribute to socially responsible activities. We will 
support reduced car use through the redevelopment of the University Station, 
development of new pedestrian and cycle routes, and more flexible working. We will 
use campus Living Labs for staff and students to research into sustainability and 
evidence reductions in emissions, and develop plan s to achieve net zero carbon.  
 
Measures of success  
Our 2030 Measure of Success quantify our long -term ambition. These are the 
principal means by which Council  will assess progress with the delivery of the 
Strategic Framework.  
More detailed quantitative and qualitative performance measures that support these 
principal measures will be integrated into our annual planning process and used by 
University Execu tive Board . This will provide accountability for all areas of the 
University in contributing to the delivery of our ambitions, and will support 
prioritisation of investment decisions.  
• Global reputation:  We will be recogn ised amongst the leading universities 
globally, ranking within the top 50 global institutions in the leading international 
tables.  
• Research quality: The quality of our research will be amongst the best in the 
UK; our volume of citations per FTE will place us in the top 10 in the UK.  
• Teaching and Learning: Our student experience will be exemplary, ranking 
within the top 20 in the sector for institutional student satisfaction.  
• Graduate success: Our graduates will be amongst the most employable in the 
UK, rank ing within the top 5 institutions in the UK for Graduate Outcomes.  
• Engagement and Impact: We will develop measures to monitor progress 
against our priorities relating to social responsibility, community engagement, and 
economic and social impact.  
• Pride in  our University: Our staff will be proud to work at the University; our 
staff engagement, measured via staff surveys, will compare favourably with top 
national and international employers.  
• Environment: We will make annual gains in reducing our carbon footp rint, to 
achieve net zero carbon for scope 1 and 2 by 2035 and overall by 2045.  
• Finance and Growth:  We will continue to ensure our capacity to invest in our 
core activities, by maintaining a 10% annual surplus, and our overall income per 
FTE will be amongs t the top 10 in the UK.  
 
Supporting infrastructure and financial 
plans  
 
Our ambitions will be enabled by the delivery of several supporting plans.  
Central to our strategy is the financial sustainability  of the University. The 
University has a long history of sound financial management: as well as enabling 
significant investment over a long period in the people and buildings that are crucial 
for the University’s academic mission, this strength also provid es us with resilience 
to manage during unexpected circumstances. We will continue to steward the 
University’s finances and resources carefully during the period of the Strategic 
Framework, recognising that this provides us with the ability to invest in our  
academic research and education priorities, including people and the physical and 
digital infrastructure. We will seek to increase and diversify our income streams 
whilst controlling costs, targeting annual cash generation of 10% of income to enable 
this investment.  
We will continue to refresh and develop our campus facilities and IT infrastructure 
through our capital and digital strategies , recognising that high -quality facilities, 
space, and equipment are crucial to the teaching, research and innovation  ambitions 
of this strategic framework. Approximately 60% of our non -residential estate is over 
60 years old, so a significant programme of upgrade and refurbishment will be 
required. We will invest in new forms of space, to support more flexible and 
collaborative working. In light of changes to how we teach, research, and work, our 
investment in technology, through our Digital Strategy [link when published], will form 
a greater proportion of our infrastructure investment.  
Our strategy will be underpinned by a clear ambition for the future size and shape 
of the University and our student population . We will continue to grow the 
number of overseas students that we welcome, while sustaining our strong and 
valued UK student population. Globally, we will contin ue to grow our new Dubai 
campus, whilst also expanding our programmes in China, Singapore, and other 
countries. Drawing on the lessons of bimodal teaching and the increasing need for 
flexible postgraduate education, we will expand our distance learning por tfolio with 
full degrees, micro -credentials and CPD delivered on a variety of platforms.  
Many of the key themes of this framework are supported by Birmingham In Action , 
the University’s fundraising and volunteering campaign, which aims to transform 
lives for our generation and the next by tack ling the world’s biggest challenges, 
 
today. The campaign supports some of the most important areas of work in the 
University, including access to education, youth mental health, cancer, and the 
environment. As well as ambitious financial targets, the campa ign also seeks to 
harness one million volunteering hours from staff, students, alumni, and friends.  
 
University of Birmingham  | Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom.  

