Strategic Plan
2023-2027
In the spirit of reconciliation, Bond University acknowledges  
the Traditional Owners and Custodians  
of the land on which the University now stands. 
 
The Kombumerri people have walked and cared  
for this land and wildlife for thousands of years,  
and their descendants maintain spiritual connection  
and traditions. We thank them for sharing their cultures, 
spiritualities and ways of living with the land and wildlife  
in this place we all now call home.  
 
We pay respect to Elders past, present and emerging,  
and all Indigenous peoples.
Mission
As Australia’s first private non-profit university,  
Bond University seeks to be recognised internationally as a 
leading independent university, imbued with a spirit to innovate, 
a commitment to influence and a dedication to inspire tomorrow’s 
professionals who share a personalised and transformational 
student experience.
The Bond Difference
Bond University is built on an ethos of being 
different and independent. Since its foundation 
in 1989, the University has achieved beyond 
expectations, rising to every challenge with an 
unbridled spirit of determination, innovation, 
excellence, and strong sense of community.  
Our independence as Australia’s first private,  
non-profit university, allows us to determine our  
self-destiny and provides us with the freedoms  
to do things differently. 
This spirit of independence is an essential part of 
Bond’s DNA that is embedded in the curriculum 
of our programs and guides the personal and 
professional development of our students.  
Our people are at the core of Bond University.  
The outstanding collegiate experience is designed 
to create opportunities for students, staff and 
our partners to develop and progress, amplifying 
social connection and personal enrichment.  Our students are supported to develop their 
abilities for critical and independent thought,  
and self-analysis. Our academics are at the 
forefront of knowledge generation in their fields. 
Our support services are designed to foster 
wellbeing and allow our community to forge 
personal connections that endure throughout  
their lifetime.
Our campus life and the transformative student 
experiences that it enables – in education, 
discovery, social connection, sport, and other 
pursuits – are the hallmark of a Bond University 
education. Our people are enriched by an 
understanding of the diversity and strength 
that exists within our community of engaged 
students who each bring their own experiences 
and understandings. We recognise and celebrate 
individual cultures and assist with the achievement  
of individual ambitions.

In a world that is changing rapidly, Bond has 
sustained its own success by evolving, developing, 
and transforming with the times. By accepting the 
need for constant innovation, we also prepare our 
students and staff to embrace change and manage 
uncertainty. 
Bond understands that the future belongs to 
those who can synthesise knowledge from 
different spheres and adapt to emerging 
conditions. We recognise the critical importance 
of transdisciplinary study and interdisciplinary 
skills. We are recognised for the strength of our 
professional disciplines and the practical skills and 
applied knowledge of our graduates. Our emphasis 
is on broadening horizons through international 
experiences, partnerships, and networks.The exploration and dissemination of new 
knowledge is embedded in our teaching, learning 
and engagement with the broader community.  
It provides the bedrock for how our academics  
and students approach societal and global 
challenges. Our researchers are focussed on 
developing world class translational research 
in key areas that are aligned with our teaching 
programs, our values, and our external 
relationships.
This Strategic Plan provides a map to guide our 
collective action and signals our priorities for new 
investment. Importantly, this Plan builds upon 
our existing capabilities and strengthening our 
commitment to the mission that has underpinned 
our success since foundation.

As the world is becoming more complex and uncertain, our ability to prosper and 
progress within it will be determined by the quality and commitment of our people 
– our staff, students, alumni, partners, and the wider Bond community.
A sense of community and belonging is central to the ethos of Bond. Our people 
are essential to how we maintain our relevance, innovate in our teaching, advance 
our research, connect, and collaborate, and preserve our distinctive sense of 
belonging to an inspirational and aspirational learning community. We will achieve 
our mission by maintaining and building an inclusive culture that thrives on the 
collective efforts of our people. 
Our independent status provides us with the freedoms to do things differently 
whilst increasing the importance of building our own resources for a sustainable 
future and ensuring the responsible custodianship of our great but young 
institution. 
The 2023 - 2027 strategy for the University is supported by four core principles, 
which provide the lens through which we plan and prioritise our decision making 
and actions:Principles
Distinctive
As Australia’s first private, 
independent, non-profit  
university, we own and have  
earned a distinctive position. 
Our private status, self-destiny, 
sense of community, and 
enrichment activities are strengths 
to be leveraged, benefited from, 
and celebrated.
Connected
Our boundaries extend beyond 
the physical campus. The impact 
and achievements of our students, 
alumni and staff are global. 
We strive to create an environment 
that is always connected, impactful 
and engaged with a culture that 
embraces opportunities with 
students, alumni, industry,  
and the broader community.Relevant
Our independence, willingness,  
and ability to challenge norms 
enables our culture of innovation. 
We will continue to embrace constant 
uncertainty, look to the future, and 
empower our people to drive change 
as leaders of innovative practice with 
societal influence and a focus on 
human, social, environmental,  
and economic impact.
Excellent
The pursuit of excellence and 
ambition are hallmarks of Bond. 
We aim to attract the best students 
with ambition from around the world, 
and our determination to build  
a world-class workforce creates  
a culture where every individual is 
inspired to excel.1
32
4
3
Advancing our 
unique identity2
Expanding reach 
and making a 
greater impact1
Fostering  
an inspirational  
and aspirational 
learning community
Strategy
1. Fostering an inspirational and 
aspirational learning community
Foster a scholarly, connected and engaged learning community that advances our status 
as a globally recognised university with high impact, which recognises the power of 
interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary scholarship that is demonstrated by the excellence  
of our education and research.
1.1 Student experience : Create seamless, personalised, authentic, and inspirational 
learning experiences that encourage self-discovery, demonstrate capability 
development, and embody lifelong learning, inclusion, and integrity.
1.2 Innovative teaching : Continuously develop innovative programs and products, 
curricula, and teaching formats that deliver on the promise of the Bond student 
experience and align with learners’ needs and workforce demands.
1.3 Graduate skills : Ensure our students have the knowledge, skills, and capabilities that 
prepare them to succeed in the world of future work as ethical leaders and responsible 
contributors to global sustainability.
1.4 Research : Conduct targeted research in key areas which is world-class in quality  
and impact.
2. Expanding reach and making  
a greater impact
Develop and sustain high-quality relationships that strengthen our reputation, enhance our 
student experience, support our research ambitions, demonstrate our relevance,  
and create opportunities for engagement.
2.1 Community: Activate and promote Bond’s presence as a connected, social, and 
vibrant living environment where students, academics, industry, and the community 
come together to learn, research, experiment, discover and answer complex 
challenges.
2.2 Partners:  Build and nurture key partnerships with professions, industry, government,  
and academia that enhance our reputation and grow our capacity including our ability 
to undertake impactful research.
2.3 Alumni: Engender a lifelong connection with our students through continuous 
learning, ongoing support, and by providing opportunities for enrichment, personal 
legacy and influence.
2.4 Reputation for Quality:  Implement innovative business development and recruitment 
strategies that capitalise on our disciplinary strengths, respond to community 
demand, diversify our student cohorts, and attract a high-quality workforce.
3. Advancing our unique identity
Stay true to our principles and implement growth strategies that ensure our future 
sustainability whilst maintaining our unique identity, established by our independence, 
agility, innovative practice, social responsibility, and engagement.
3.1 Culture: Foster an inclusive, respectful and positive culture that embodies the four 
principles of distinctiveness, relevance, connection and excellence.
3.2 Leadership : Empower our leaders to build effective and productive teams, 
make responsible decisions, generate capability and skill, encourage continuous 
improvement and service excellence, and nurture a workforce that is energised to 
advance our strategy.
3.3 Infrastructure : Build and enhance our physical and digital infrastructure, for learning, 
student accommodation, sport, and other extracurricular activities, creating a 
distinctive environment that supports academic ambition, personal development,  
and community.
3.4 Governance and Resources : Govern effectively and focus our resources on areas that 
make the greatest difference and impact, having regard to our status as a non-profit 
university with clear ambitions to remain independent, distinctive, and successful.
MB10952Bond University  
Gold Coast Queensland 4229  
Australia
Toll free: 1800 074 074  
Phone: 07 5595 2222  
bond.edu.au
ABN 88 010 694 121  
CRICOS Provider Code 00017B 
TEQSA Provider Number PRV12072
