BUILDING ON DISTINCTION
A NEW PLAN FOR BROWNOCTOBER 26, 2013
The mission of Brown University is to serve the community, the nation, and the world by discovering,  
communicating, and preserving knowledge and understanding in a spirit of free inquiry, and by  
educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation.  
We do this through a partnership of students and teachers in a unified community known as a university-college.
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  1INTRODUCTION
On the 250th anniversary of its founding, Brown moves forward committed to the values that define and 
sustain our record of excellence and influence in the world. We will continue to welcome and challenge 
independent, creative, diverse, and courageous thinkers to collaborate, innovate, and explore with life-
changing and world-changing impact. That is Brown’s distinction and critical asset in an increasingly digital, 
fast-paced, global community. We will pursue Brown’s mission to discover, communicate, and preserve 
knowledge and understanding at an even higher level of distinction. We will raise Brown’s stature as a leading 
university that unites innovative teaching and outstanding research. Focused investments and responsible 
stewardship will support essential growth and long-term financial security.
Brown matters, to our community of students, faculty, and staff and to the world beyond. Brown is a place 
where ideas, passion, and constructive irreverence lead to lives of purpose and positive consequence. We aim 
to build on Brown’s distinction. 
 
THE BROWN OPPORTUNITY
The Plan for Academic Enrichment, carried out over the last decade, has confirmed Brown’s standing as 
an internationally renowned university by enriching the excellence of our research and the rigor of our 
education. We now have the opportunity to achieve new levels of leadership by sustaining and increasing 
investment in our distinctive academic programs. 
 
THE BROWN DIFFERENCE
Our strategy builds on the essential characteristics that distinguish Brown from other leading universities. 
Brown is both a major research university and an educational institution based upon collegiate values. 
We believe that education and research reinforce each other and that the best academic programs bring 
innovative teaching and rigorous research together. 
Brown is widely known for its open undergraduate curriculum and the close working relationships between 
faculty and students. Innovative education that recognizes the value of student-centered learning at all levels –  
undergraduate, graduate, and medical – is fundamental to our vision of Brown’s future.
 
THE BROWN APPROACH
We are a community that celebrates intellectual curiosity, creativity, and individuality; appreciates the power 
of collaboration among individuals with different perspectives, backgrounds, and areas of expertise; and 
fosters research and education that strive to have a positive influence on society. 
In an era characterized by sharp ideological divisions, we will continue to cultivate an environment of open 
debate and informed civil discourse. In a world focused on immediate results, we will continue to invest in 
the long-term intellectual, creative, and social potential of our students, faculty, and staff. 
 
COMMITMENTS
Brown’s strategic plan for the next ten years expresses our commitment to build in four areas: 
• Integrative Scholarship  | Brown excels at research and education that integrate knowledge from diverse 
disciplines. We will build on this distinctive strength through investments in thematic areas that will 
engage the full community on issues of importance to society now and in the future.  
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  2• Educational Leadership  | Brown offers the best residential liberal education available at a research 
university. We will sustain Brown’s position as a leader in undergraduate, graduate, and medical 
education through innovative approaches to teaching and learning that prepare students for lives of  
“usefulness and reputation” in the 21st century.
• Academic Excellence | Brown’s success is grounded in the talent of its faculty, staff, and students. We 
will continue to strengthen this community through investments that support scholarship, cultivate 
the diversity required for excellence, enhance students’ access to a Brown education, support existing 
academic partnerships, and forge new ones with institutions around the United States and the world. 
• Campus Development  | Brown’s campus must support its academic and extracurricular aspirations   
at the highest levels. We will reinvigorate our physical campus both on College Hill and off, strengthen 
our ties to our city and state, and create a robust virtual campus that enhances the connections between 
members of the Brown community – faculty, students, staff, alumni, and others – around the world.
As these plans are implemented over the coming decade, Brown will experience modest growth in the size of 
its faculty and student body, increasing Brown’s impact on the world. We will undertake our initiatives within 
a framework that keeps the University on a sustainable financial path as we continue to improve and grow. To 
enhance access and affordability, we will control cost growth even as we make investments that further raise 
the value of a Brown degree. We will make new investments in people, programs, and facilities timed and 
sequenced in a fiscally responsible manner. Finally, we will conduct ongoing critical reviews of existing and 
new programs, using appropriate metrics to measure success. 
Our plans are ambitious. Success will require the discipline and community spirit needed to set priorities and 
make focused investments, a willingness to define and measure success, and a capacity to make adjustments 
if our goals are not being met. Success will also require the full participation and support of the Brown 
community: faculty, students, staff, alumni, parents, and friends of the University. Now, on the eve of the 
250th anniversary of the University’s founding, is an ideal time to challenge ourselves to move Brown to ever 
higher levels of significant scholarship and innovative education – to build on our distinction. 
INTEGRATIVE SCHOLARSHIP
Brown has a distinctive tradition of producing scholars who assimilate and integrate ideas in a multi-
disciplinary fashion. The Brown Curriculum encourages undergraduates to explore widely across the 
curriculum and to draw connections across diverse areas of study. Brown’s collaborative environment 
supports research in areas that benefit from an integrative lens. 
We will build on this strength by making focused investments in seven integrative themes that are important 
to society, now and in the future. The themes will build on current departmental and faculty strength, 
enhance the curriculum, leverage existing and new partnerships with public and private institutions locally 
and abroad, and foster creative scholarship that has a positive impact not only on the Brown campus but also 
in the community, the nation, and the world. 
In most instances, investments in the themes will be made through existing departments, schools, and 
centers. Rather than creating new structures, we will coalesce and grow our current academic units in 
alignment with these themes. Brown’s existing interdisciplinary centers will play a crucial role in sustaining 
academic communities that bridge disciplines and support outstanding scholarship. The establishment of 
these themes, however, will not supplant Brown’s long-standing commitment to providing all its faculty, 
students, and staff with the resources and support required to excel at scholarship and education, nor will it 
entail a retreat from the strongest programs and areas of scholarship that were cultivated under the Plan for 
Academic Enrichment that continue to bring distinction to Brown. 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  3Each theme will be built on the foundation of an integrated plan of scholarship and education, with 
opportunities for broad faculty and student involvement. Brown’s success in these areas will require the 
dedicated and focused efforts of faculty and staff as well as a commitment of new resources: new faculty in 
carefully chosen areas who will complement and strengthen our current faculty; seed funds for innovative 
new research and the development of new courses; fellowship support for graduate students; internship and 
research support for undergraduates; and (in some cases) renovated and new facilities.
• Cultivating Creative Expression  | Creative expression is used to explore human values and communicate 
new ideas, to challenge societies, and to draw disparate groups together. At Brown, the creative arts are 
tightly integrated into the liberal arts. We aspire to foster an environment in which artists operating at 
the highest levels of their crafts learn from and inform scholars in disciplines across the campus.
• Understanding the Human Brain  | The study of the brain and its relationship to cognition, behavior, 
and disease is often described as the “last frontier” in biomedical science. This theme will support 
Brown scholars in their efforts to understand functions of the brain that distinguish us as humans, 
discover treatments for disorders that diminish our capacities, and create technologies to improve lives.  
• Sustaining Life on Earth  | Environmental change can threaten global supplies of food and water, harm 
human health, and undermine the stability of societies around the world. We will build an academic  
program focused on the relationship of the environment to human societies combining the efforts of 
natural, physical, and social scientists, together with humanists, to understand the determinants of 
environmental change, alter norms of human behavior, consider ethical issues related to sustainability, 
and develop sound environmental policies. Work on this theme will complement ongoing efforts to 
improve sustainability on campus.
• Creating Peaceful, Just, and Prosperous Societies  | Economic, political and cultural development 
are as important as defense and diplomacy in establishing peaceful and just societies. Brown’s 
multidisciplinary approach to security within and across countries reflects this understanding. We will 
establish Brown as a leading center of international studies that integrates rigorous scholarship and 
education with active engagement in the world of international affairs, and we will support scholarship 
and public discourse on institutions and ideas that promote social justice and economic prosperity 
domestically and internationally.
• Exploring Human Experience  | Brown has a long and distinguished record of innovation in the  
humanities. Learning from the historical record, analyzing present conditions, and comprehending 
our future possibilities are fundamental to the University’s mission and its contributions to society.  
Investment in this theme will continue to develop a robust environment for the study of human 
experience in all its diversity throughout history and around the world. Specifically, it will build on 
the success of the Cogut Center for the Humanities and the Humanities Initiative to promote creative 
critical thinking and informed public dialogue about the most challenging questions facing humanity. 
• Using Science and Technology to Improve Lives  | The development of new technology is critical to 
human progress, and Brown is at the forefront of discovery in areas such as computing, nanoscience and 
bioengineering. We recognize that the benefits of new technologies hinge on how well they ultimately 
align with societal needs. Our plan for enhancing the study of science, engineering, and technology will 
emphasize an interdisciplinary approach to innovation, grounded in a broad understanding of local and 
global needs and concerns. 
• Deciphering Disease and Improving Population Health  | Improving human health requires an 
integrated approach to understanding the causes of disease and translating that knowledge into new 
modes of diagnosis, treatment, and ultimately prevention – from bench to bedside to population. This 
theme will rely upon the close alignment of Brown’s Alpert Medical School and School of Public Health 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  4and synergies with faculty across the campus to create the knowledge on which population health can 
be improved, and educate skilled professionals to use this knowledge for the benefit of people in Rhode 
Island and around the world. 
EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP
Brown is deeply committed to providing outstanding education to undergraduate, graduate, and medical 
students and has long held a place as a leader in educational innovation. The Brown Curriculum prepares 
undergraduates for productive lives by cultivating critical thinking, independence, and creativity through 
exposure to a rigorous curriculum in the liberal arts and sciences. Brown graduate and medical students 
are provided with the courses, mentoring, and opportunities for research, teaching, and professional 
development critical to their success. 
In the coming decade, we will strengthen our position as a leader in education. We will continue to 
emphasize close interactions between students and faculty in an environment that inspires students to 
carve their own intellectual and creative paths. In addition, we will enhance our capacity in the creative 
use of online technologies to increase the quality of education, strengthen the curriculum in key areas, and 
expand opportunities for Brown students to connect their academic experiences to the world outside of 
Brown. We will further enhance career counseling and related services to help all our students prepare for a 
productive and fulfilling life after Brown. We will create innovative new programs for master’s, medical, and 
doctoral students that build on Brown’s strengths and expand the professional training and mentoring that is 
invaluable for these advanced students. 
Our plans include:
• Enhancing the Brown Curriculum  | Brown is committed to its open undergraduate curriculum. 
Analyses conducted as a part of the planning process indicate that our students study widely across the 
curriculum and they leave the University with an education that is both deep and broad. Continuous 
adjustments are required, however, to maintain a strong curriculum that meets the ever-changing 
needs of students. We have identified several areas of curricular growth. One priority is pre-medical 
and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) education, with a focus on integrated, 
problem-based learning that will enhance science education for all students, regardless of their 
concentrations. Another is to expand course offerings that relate to Brown’s liberal learning goal of 
embracing diversity. We propose to develop new sophomore seminars, modeled on the successful first-
year seminar program, that provide students with small, discussion-based classes addressing critical 
questions of identity, equity, and justice. We recognize that students require excellent academic advising 
to take full advantage of Brown’s open curriculum. Brown’s advising system has been strengthened in 
recent years. We are committed to sustaining and building on these improvements. 
• Technology and education  | Higher education is in the early stages of a grand experiment in the creative 
application of online and other digital technologies. There is still substantial uncertainty about how online 
courses will affect the higher education marketplace and much to be discovered about the potential 
applications of digital technology to teaching and learning. Our plan calls for aggressive experimentation 
in new modes of education, testing new ideas, assessing their efficacy, and adapting them as necessary. 
This work will be supported by a new Laboratory for Educational Innovation within the Sheridan Center 
for Teaching and Learning that will help faculty generate online educational content, experiment with 
innovative teaching methods that incorporate online elements into residential education, train faculty, 
graduate students, and undergraduates in the use of new educational technologies, and evaluate the 
results of experimentation. We are especially excited about the prospect of involving undergraduates and 
graduate students in the creation and assessment of courses that include online components and using 
technology to serve students while they study and conduct research abroad.
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  5• Data fluency and analysis  | The massive explosion in data availability has profound implications 
for how we should educate students to be leaders in the 21st century. An increasing number of fields 
require an understanding of how data are collected, stored, analyzed, and visualized. The growth of “big 
data” also poses numerous ethical and policy challenges that range from privacy to data security to the 
protection of intellectual property. Brown must ensure that all members of the Brown community – not 
only those in fields that have long emphasized data analysis – have the resources needed to become 
fluent with data. At the undergraduate level, we will support data fluency as a learning goal with a new 
menu of courses offered in a range of disciplines. Graduate and medical students, faculty, and staff 
also require education and support in the applications of data within their respective disciplines. The 
humanities represent an area of pressing need and remarkable opportunity. We will develop a new entity 
gathering the capacities of the University Library, the Center for Computation and Visualization, and 
Computing and Information Services to provide intensive support for these groups in the collection, 
analysis, storage, and visualization of data. 
• Connecting to the world  | Consistent with our mission to serve “the community, the nation, and the 
world, ” learning that connects academic and real-world experiences is central to the undergraduate 
experience at Brown. As an established leader in this area, Brown is in a position to define the “second 
wave” of integrative approaches to engaged learning. We plan to implement a suite of new programs 
that will provide Brown students with opportunities to work with faculty and community practitioners 
on pressing local and global issues and provide students with expanded access to summer internships 
and research experiences. We will also develop “Brown in the World” courses that integrate coursework 
with international experiences. These programs will take advantage of the expertise of the Swearer 
Center for Public Service and be connected by an overarching Program in Engaged Scholarship in which 
participating students develop an integrated plan of curricular and off-campus experiences including 
Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) as well as paid and unpaid summer internships. 
We will consider changes to the academic calendar that will facilitate opportunities for students to 
conduct research or undertake internships away from campus in times other than the summer.
• Innovative graduate and medical education  | Brown’s aspiration to be an innovator in education 
extends to its graduate and professional students. We plan to enhance our commitment to graduate 
education with new master’s programs in selected areas that will also benefit both undergraduates 
and doctoral students. They will be attractive to Brown undergraduates who may choose to remain 
in Providence for a fifth year, leaving with both a bachelor’s and master’s degree. In addition, doctoral 
students can apply for support to add a master’s degree in a second discipline to their Ph.D. training; we 
are committed to expanding this program. We will also involve doctoral students from all disciplines in 
working with faculty to develop new modes of teaching that make creative use of online content, thus 
better preparing them for the academic job market of the future. Finally, we will create a new track in 
Primary Care and Population Health for students in the Warren Alpert Medical School. This program 
will enhance the Alpert Medical School’s long-standing role as a leader in innovative medical education. 
Already under development, the new program has attracted national attention for its goal of providing 
a cadre of physicians with the understanding of medicine and population health needed to be effective 
leaders in our evolving health care environment. 
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE
Brown’s strength is derived from the talent and dedication of its faculty, students, and staff, working in concert with 
local and global partners and with the support of alumni, parents, and other friends of the University. Members 
of this community embody the values of Brown: They are intellectually independent, creative, principled, and 
collaborative. Brown’s ability to succeed depends not only on cultivating and engaging the most talented people,  
but also on developing an efficient and effective organizational structure in which all its members can thrive. 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  6We will continue to cultivate a community of faculty, students, and staff with the diversity and breadth of 
experience required for excellence and to provide members of this community with the opportunities and 
resources needed for success. In addition, we will foster connections to existing and new collaborating institutions 
and to our city and state and to develop new ways to engage alumni and parents in the life of the University.
The investments in integrative scholarship and educational leadership described above will build on Brown’s 
distinction. Other key strategies are highlighted below.
 
THE FACULTY
Faculty are the lifeblood of a great university. In the coming years, Brown will intensify its cultivation of an 
excellent, diverse faculty that values Brown’s distinctive approach to scholarship and education in the service 
of society. This goal is not new: A central plank of the Plan for Academic Enrichment was a commitment to 
the competitive salaries, sabbatical policies, and research resources needed to recruit, retain, and support an 
outstanding faculty through a period of rapid growth. In the coming years, we will continue this commitment 
to faculty excellence by maintaining the highest standards of research and teaching while providing faculty 
with the competitive compensation and the academic resources needed to be successful. Three areas will 
require special emphasis in the years ahead:  
• Developing diversity  | Brown’s policies and programs directed at diversifying its faculty have had only 
modest success. A diverse faculty is an essential component of scholarly excellence in all disciplines and 
of ensuring that the University meets the complex needs of Brown’s student body. While continuing 
our Target of Opportunity Program, we must look to additional strategies to make progress. We will 
implement a comprehensive plan for diversifying the faculty that focuses on developing the pipeline of 
young scholars and attracting them to join the Brown faculty and on heightening the awareness of our 
community to issues of diversity in recruiting, mentoring, and retaining an excellent faculty. 
• Enhancing time available for scholarship  | Brown faculty members require concentrated periods of 
time to devote to their scholarly work and to enrich their pedagogy. Brown’s sabbatical policy, although 
improved from a decade ago, is still not competitive with our peers. In the coming decade we will 
strengthen support for sabbaticals and consider changes in the scheduling of courses and the structure of 
the academic calendar to provide faculty with concentrated blocks of time to enhance their scholarship, 
experiment with different teaching formats, and engage with students outside of the classroom. 
• Building the research environment  | We will continue to develop an environment that incentivizes and 
supports faculty scholarship, through mentoring of junior faculty, providing increased support to faculty 
members as they develop research proposals, and streamlining the processes for proposal submission and 
project oversight. We will grow the discretionary funds available to chairs and center directors to support 
scholarly activities such as international collaborations, conferences, travel, and the preliminary work 
necessary to attract external support. We will also continue to build infrastructure to help faculty apply 
existing and emerging digital technologies to scholarly work across the full breadth of the University. 
 
UNDERGRADUATES
Brown attracts and benefits from exceptionally talented, creative, and independent students. They are drawn 
by the flexibility and rigor of the Brown Curriculum and by a campus culture that encourages individuality, 
forges community, and embraces diversity of thought and experience. Brown has a deeply held commitment 
to assuring talented and creative students access to this educational experience, regardless of their economic 
backgrounds. Beginning with the Class of 2007, Brown implemented need-blind admission for first-year 
domestic applicants. In the coming decade, we will continue to strengthen financial aid, with the following 
specific priorities:
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  7• Need–blind admission  | Maintain need-blind admission and competitive financial support for domestic 
students with special attention paid to affordability for middle-class as well as high-need students; 
annually reassess scholarship support for all aided international students; and work toward Brown’s long-
standing goal of becoming fully need-blind for all students.
• Summer support  | Provide access to additional support for aided students so that they have the capacity 
to pursue educational or career-oriented opportunities for at least one summer during their time at 
Brown. This would include additional Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) as well as 
financial support to enable aided students to accept paid and unpaid internships.
• Diversity of experience  | Make special efforts to identify applicants who come from backgrounds that 
are underrepresented at Brown, including those who are the first in their families to attend college, as well 
as veterans and children from military families.
 
GRADUATE AND MEDICAL STUDENTS
Graduate and medical education are cornerstones of Brown’s success that will continue to be developed 
and enhanced under our plan. Doctoral students produce excellent, independently inspired scholarship, 
collaborate with faculty, and make critical contributions to undergraduate education. Master’s and medical 
students engage in research, advance knowledge and go on to careers that serve people and communities 
around the world. All are ambassadors for Brown, and their success enhances our reputation. Brown’s graduate 
and medical education programs must continue to attract a diverse pool of exceptionally talented students and 
support them over the course of their educations. 
• Improving doctoral education  | A major focus in the coming years will be to continue to improve 
the quality and visibility of Brown’s doctoral programs. We aim to increase dramatically the fraction 
of doctoral programs that are ranked in the top tier. To achieve this goal, we must maintain stipends 
and summer support at levels that are comparable to those offered by our peers. In addition, we plan to 
provide enhanced stipends and summer support for the most promising applicants, and develop a pool 
of new endowed graduate fellowships that will be awarded to programs that recruit the most outstanding 
students. An important component of our plan is to develop a set of metrics to track the quality of doctoral 
programs over time, so that we can monitor improvements and adjust our strategies for each department 
as needed. Brown’s focus on undergraduate education attracts doctoral students who value teaching. We 
will provide advanced graduate students with support to become effective teachers and mentors.
• Enhancing professional development and career counseling  | To be competitive for academic 
positions, doctoral students need to demonstrate their talents as teachers. Even at leading institutions, 
however, only about 50 percent of doctoral students obtain academic positions after graduation. 
Therefore, we will focus efforts on both assuring our doctoral candidates are trained as outstanding 
disciplinary teachers with experience in newly emerging modes of instruction, but also receive enhanced 
career services to help them explore options beyond the academy.
• Growing and enhancing master’s education  | Master’s degree students often study at Brown in 
preparation for careers requiring expert level knowledge of an academic discipline. As we expand and 
diversify master’s education at Brown we will enhance career services and professional mentoring 
targeted at the needs of this group and more fully integrate these students into the academic community. 
As the number of master’s degree students increases, adequate space must be developed to assure effective 
learning. At the same time, we must continue to hold master’s programs to the same high standards as 
other academic programs at Brown.
• Expanding clinical relationships and community partnerships  | With an expanded medical school class and 
the development of innovative teaching modalities, it is necessary to expand relationships with Lifespan 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  8and Care New England, our current partners, and to develop new relationships with physician practices and 
other hospital partners. We will strengthen collaborations with organizations and clinics that provide care 
to the underserved and enhance our partnerships with Rhode Island health professional schools.
 
STAFF
Brown benefits from the exceptional staff who are integral to fulfillment of our mission of teaching, research, 
and service, and Brown is committed to remaining an employer of choice. Investments in high-performing 
and well-trained staff will be particularly important to the successful implementation of our plan. The skills 
required by Brown staff are constantly evolving. Increasingly, jobs at Brown require a range of technical, 
communications, problem-solving, and project management skills. In addition, as Brown continues to 
diversify, the staff (like all members of the Brown community) must be culturally aware and adept. In the 
coming years, we will maintain investments in professional development and training. We must also offer 
competitive compensation, and provide career paths for staff members to progress to positions of greater 
responsibility. Throughout we will seek to leverage our investments in technology to enable staff to be as 
efficient and effective as possible. 
 
COLLABORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS
Carefully chosen collaborations and partnerships are more important than ever to universities. Successful 
partnerships with outstanding organizations can enhance Brown’s reputation and extend its reach. Brown 
already has an extensive network of institutional partners. We collaborate with the Marine Biological 
Laboratory, Trinity Repertory Company, Rhode Island School of Design, and other local universities on 
student programs and research. Brown’s hospital partners – Lifespan and Care New England, as well as the 
V .A. Medical Center – are integral to the success of our medical school and biomedical research. In the last 
five years, Brown has also developed a range of partnerships with international universities. In the coming 
decade, we will devote increased attention to the cultivation and stewardship of partnerships as well as the 
careful assessment of the quality of prospective partners. 
Brown University also values its relationship with neighbors and partners in Providence and Rhode Island 
and is committed to cultivating strong and positive connections for the benefit of the University, the city, 
and the state. As we implement the priorities of this plan, we will continue to identify partnerships and 
opportunities of importance to the University that advance the economic, educational, social, and cultural 
contributions to our city and state. In addition, as we approach the 250th anniversary of Brown’s founding, 
we will use the occasion to reinforce the historic roots shared by the University, city, and state and to forge ties 
that will endure beyond the celebration.
 
ALUMNI, PARENTS AND FRIENDS OF BROWN
Increasing the engagement of alumni, parents, and friends of Brown is essential to our success. Not only does 
the University rely on the philanthropic support of members of these groups, it also benefits from those who 
volunteer their time as alumni interviewers, advisory council members, fundraisers, and ambassadors. In 
the coming years, we will develop an expanded array of volunteer opportunities, including a strengthened 
undergraduate internship and career advising network and new advisory councils that will provide expert 
advice as the academic themes and educational innovations are developed. We plan to take advantage of 
enhanced modes of communicating with alumni, parents, and friends about the life of the campus. This will 
involve expanding our efforts in social media, making online course content created at Brown available to 
alumni, parents, and friends, and developing outreach programs that bring community members to campus 
and bring Brown to communities outside of Providence. 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  9CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT 
Brown University is a dynamic center of research, teaching, and extracurricular life housed in a rich and 
historic architectural setting. Initially crafted with brick and mortar before the founding of the republic, the 
campus has grown and changed over nearly two and a half centuries to reflect the values and needs of the 
academic mission of the University at each stage of its development. The campus is beloved by members of 
its community. Its eclectic mix of architectural styles emphasizes the University’s long history as well as its 
forward-looking outlook. Its human scale and compact size supports intellectual exchange across disciplines 
and instills a sense of community among our members. 
We have three overarching goals for the development of the Brown campus. One is to maintain the sense of 
intimacy and connectedness that characterizes our setting, while allowing for continued modest growth in 
the numbers of undergraduate, graduate students, and faculty, and for changes in needs related to academics 
and other aspects of campus life. A second is to create a “virtual campus” that supports ties between members 
of the Brown community – faculty, students, staff, alumni, and parents – despite their geographic dispersion. 
A third is to engage in responsible historical, fiscal, and environmental stewardship and sustainability.
 
COLLEGE HILL
College Hill will remain the core of undergraduate instruction and faculty research, as well as the center 
for extracurricular and athletic activities for undergraduates. Brown’s highly collaborative culture in which 
faculty work across academic boundaries and students are free to explore subject areas across the curriculum 
is facilitated by the physical proximity of classrooms, faculty, and academic support, within an easily walkable 
distance. However, land available for new construction on College Hill is increasingly scarce. Decisions about 
where programs should be located will be made carefully and deliberately. Priority for space on College Hill 
will be given to academic departments and programs that involve undergraduates, as well as to classrooms and 
services for students. 
 
THE JEWELRY DISTRICT
Our vision for Brown’s role in the Jewelry District is to be a partner in the development of a vibrant mixed-use 
environment with medical education, scientific research, administrative offices, residential space for graduate and 
medical students, and retail space. Brown’s development in the Jewelry District will accommodate the University’s 
growth in the coming years; free up space on College Hill for undergraduate-focused departments and programs; 
and contribute to the economic and cultural vitality of Providence and Rhode Island. Achieving this objective 
will require coordination between Brown, other universities, local government, and the private sector. 
 
CONNECTING THE PHYSICAL CAMPUS
The development of the Jewelry District – and its connectivity to College Hill – requires a comprehensive 
transportation plan, including pedestrian and bicycle transportation. Initiatives that facilitate more effective 
physical transit between the two parts of our campus should be pursued, as should technological tools that 
make possible virtual meetings and other interactions with ease and predictability. 
 
CREATING A VIRTUAL CAMPUS
Although the Brown campus is a physical place that unites faculty, students, and staff in fulfillment of our 
mission, the Brown community occupies an equally vital and important virtual space that extends well beyond 
the confines of College Hill and the Jewelry District to all parts of the globe. Our goals and objectives for 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  10the Brown campus must also encompass the Brown community, particularly at a time when international 
experiences and understanding of global issues is essential to a well-educated citizenry. Virtual communication 
tools will be developed to further connect the Brown campus with the Brown community around the world.
 
FOSTERING SUSTAINABILITY
Brown’s approach to construction, maintenance, and renewal of space will reflect the value of sustainability. We will 
prioritize the adaptive re-use and optimization of existing facilities. In addition, Brown’s space and infrastructure 
should serve as wide a range of activities and needs as possible through flexible and accessible design and efficient, 
adaptable use. We will seek out opportunities for collaboration and partnership with other institutions to share or 
co-develop space when possible, and we will respect the historic nature of our campus and communities. 
 
THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
Over the coming decade, the campus plan envisions the following major enhancements:
• New buildings to house exceptional scholarly initiatives and promote interdisciplinary collaboration, 
including incremental space for the School of Engineering, the Alpert Medical School, and the Brown 
Institute for Brain Science; 
• New or renovated space for academic needs in the creative and performing arts; 
• Classroom space that is flexible, highly usable, and equipped with current and emerging technology to 
enhance teaching and learning; 
• Renovated space on College Hill for academic departments, centers, and new initiatives in space freed up 
by the movement of administrative functions to the Jewelry District;
• Shared convening spaces spread throughout the campus that foster dynamic intellectual exchange among 
faculty and students from different departments; 
• Departmental and community space for graduate students that reflects the importance, nature, and 
excellence of master’s and doctoral education at the University; 
• Sharpe Refectory and a number of residence halls are long overdue for renovation, and growth in the 
campus population may require collaborations with private-sector developers to create additional 
housing for undergraduate and graduate students; 
• Space for student activities will be incorporated into new renovations and construction. Although significant 
investments in athletics facilities have been completed over the past two years, we will continue to focus on 
completing the improvements that were suggested during the 2011 review of Brown’s athletic programs. 
 
CONCLUSION  
What will the successful implementation of these strategies mean for Brown in the coming decade? While 
we live in a time of considerable uncertainty, a number of outcomes are assured. One is that Brown will 
be grounded, as it is today, in its mission: Brown will continue to promote education and scholarship that 
provide immediate and long-term benefits to society in Rhode Island and around the globe; it will celebrate 
independent and creative thought while promoting a culture of collaboration; and it will sustain a community 
that represents the intellectual breadth and diversity of experience of our nation and the world. 
BUILDING ON DISTINCTION  11Our primary ambition is to pursue Brown’s mission at a higher level of distinction, to raise Brown’s stature 
as a leading university that unites innovative teaching and outstanding research. Our strategy of focused 
investments in integrative scholarship and innovative teaching, combined with enhancements in academic 
excellence across the community, will achieve this end. Success will mean new discoveries that advance 
human well-being and new research that helps us understand the human condition. It will be reflected in an 
increase in the productivity of faculty members working at the forefronts of their fields, a rise in the standing 
of Brown’s graduate and medical programs, and a continued stream of outstanding undergraduates who go 
on to equally outstanding careers that reflect the high value of a Brown degree. 
Overall, our plans reflect Brown’s deep commitment to the principles and goals of a liberal education. 
The need for a global citizenry well-versed in the breadth of disciplinary approaches to societal issues and 
grounded in skills of critical thinking, communication, data analysis, and cultural understanding will become 
increasingly acute in the years ahead. The education our students receive will equip them to be leaders in 
their respective fields as well as outstanding global citizens. 
Our plans reflect the collective aspirations of the Brown community, and the collective efforts of the Brown 
community will be required to realize our goals. With the support of dedicated faculty and staff, talented and 
creative students, and committed alumni, parents, and friends, we can build on our distinction and set Brown 
on a path of increasing academic excellence and societal importance during its second 250 years. 
