1 
   

2 
  
Cairo University environmental Sustainability Report 2020 - 2021. The report includes all 
efforts made to reduce our  negative environmental impacts and create a sustainable 
university. This report is the first sustainability report of Cairo University. The report aims 
to provide a comprehensive view of the culture of sustainability on campus by summarizing 
the universit y's commitment to the environmental, social and economic aspects of 
sustainability.  
It is worth noting that Cairo University 
won first place this year over 27 public 
universities in the competition for the 
best environmentally friendly 
unive rsity.  
 
 The report includes Cairo University's 
efforts to transform the campus into a 
more sustainable society. The report 
includes various aspects of advancing 
the university's sustainability, including 
education, research, campus operations, 
campus comm unity and public engagement.  The report shows the 
extent of Cairo University's 
commitment to achieving the United 
Nations sustainable development goals, 
as well as Egypt's Vision 2030.  
Introduction  

3 
  
 
Prof. Sohir Fahmy  Rama dan 
 
Dr. Mohamed Naguib Mohamed  
 
Roaa  Sameh  Abdelsabour  
 
Safaa  Omar  Elazab   
 
Youmna  Mohamed Farid   
  
 
General co ordinator of Sustainability 
office  
Executive  manager of Sustainab ility 
office  
 
Volunteer student  
 
Volunteer student  
 
Volunteer student  
 
Sustainability report reparation team 
2020 -2021  
4 
  

5 
 1. University Profile  
Cairo University was established in 1908; currently it has 28 faculties/institutions in different 
scientific disciplines, with total volume of about 220000 students.  Cairo University aims to be 
a sustainable, healthy and green university. Cairo University aims to produce graduates with 
the moral, quality and skills to be global citizens. 
The university is committed to conducting 
research and innovations for excellence 
and serving academic services for the 
benefit of society. Cairo University has 
successfully been undertaking its mission 
of delivering education, research and 
cultural duties  over the years. It is 
considered as the mother university among 
other younger universities in Egypt. Cairo 
University is also offering its education and 
research facilities to Arab and foreign 
students and scientists and has become well 
known worldwide. C airo University is a 
comprehensive institution of higher 
learning located in Giza, Egypt. Cairo 
University is usually ranked among the top 
universities in Egypt, and one of the top 
universities in Africa. In  QS ranking 2021 , 
Cairo University was ranked the 2nd in Egypt and the 6th across Africa, and it was 
rated 561 -570 worldwide. In the  Academic 
Ranking of World Universities  (ARWU) 
2020 ranking , the university was ranked 1st 
in Egypt. It was rated 401 -500 worldwide.  
It counts three Nobel Laureates among its 
graduates and is  one of the 50 largest 
institutions of higher education in the world 
by enrollment.   
 

6 
 Cairo University, El -Sheikh Zayed branch
Cairo University is the first public university in Sheikh Zayed City, and it is also the 
first pub lic university to establish a second branch. So it established a branch of Cairo 
University in Sheikh Zayed City. There are branches of some colleges, including:  
  
 
1. Faculty of Commerce, English 
Department  
2. Faculty of Law, English 
Department  
3. Faculty of Pharmacy  
4. Dental college  
5. College of Engineering for 
middle school students  
Inside the university branch there is a 
mosque equipped with all audio 
equipment and a capacity of about 200 
worshipers, an indoor theater equipped 
with all audio and visual equipment, 
display screens and equipped with 268 
chairs, and spaces for playground s and 
green spaces, in addition to the 
transportation service provided to 
college students to transport them from 
the college in Cairo to the college annex 
in Sheikh Zayed City., as well as the 
African Institute, according to the plan to move colleges with  a large density 
outside Cairo.  
 
 
 
It is noteworthy that in 2012, a 
new branch of the College of 
Commerce, the English Language 
Division, was opened in Sheikh Zayed 
City on the sixth of October during the 
reign of Dr. Helmy Al -Bashbeshi, the 
former Dean o f the Faculty of 

7 
 Commerce, and Dr. HossamKamel, the 
former university president.  
In December 2013, a new 
headquarters for the College of 
Pharmacy was opened in Sheikh Zayed 
City. In 2014, President of Cairo 
University, inaugurated the English 
Division, Fac ulty of Law,  
It also established a new branch of 
the College of Engineering for students 
of the middle school, and it consists of 
an educational building that contains 35 
classrooms with a capacity of 36 
students with a total capacity of 1260 
students, a m ulti-purpose hall equipped 
with a cinema projector, two language 
labs with a capacity of 30 devices each, 
and two laboratories. A computer, one of 
which is for students with a capacity of 
36 devices and the second is 
administrative, five chemistry and 
phys ics laboratories, two engineering 
drawing rooms, twenty -two 
administrative offices, three hobby 
rooms for drawing, electricity and 
carpentry, a scientific library and a basketball court, in addition to 
workshop buildings, and there are three 
classroom buil dings. They are the 
Textile Technology Center, the 
production building and the central 
laboratory, and they were equipped with 
eight workshops, namely: the tools 
workshop, the mechanics workshop, the 
electrical workshop, the refrigeration 
and air condition ing workshop, the 
carpentry workshop, the metal 
workshop, the textile workshop, and the 
architectural workshop.  
The new international branch of Cairo 
University in 6th of October City, west 
Cairo, is slated for inauguration in the 
academic year 2020/21, In vest-Gate 
reports.  
 

8 
  
  

9 
 2. Setting & infrastru cture  
Cairo University’s main campus          
situates on 1 Gamaa Street, Giza, Egypt. 
Postal Code: 12613. Cairo University is 
a public university. Cairo University is a 
Comprehensive and urban institution.  
 
1.1. Campus sites  
1. Main CU Campus  
 
 
2. Faculty of medicine   
3. Faculty of Nursing  
 
4. Faculty of Engineering  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

10 
 5. Faculty of physical therapy  
 
 
6. Faculty of Pharmacy  
 
7. Faculty of Agriculture  
 
 
 
 
 
 8. Faculty of Veterinarian  
 
 
9. Faculty of Education for Early  
Childhood  
 
10. Faculty of Computers and  
Artificial Intelligence  
 
 
 
 
 
 

11 
 11. Faculty of Graduate Studies for 
Statistical Research   
 
 
12. Cairo University, Faculty of 
Specific Education  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13. Cairo University, El -Sheikh 
Zayed branch  
 
 
 
14. International branch of Cairo 
university  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

12 
 1.2. Some setting & Infrastructures highlights  
 
 
 

13 
  
1.3. Operation and maintenance  activities of building during Covid -
19 pandemic  
1.3.1 . Providing masks and gloves  
In light of the mandatory application of 
the decision to wear the masks inside the 
university at all times, the university has 
intensified its efforts in supervising the availability of masks and gloves on the 
campus.  

14 
 1.3.2 . Displ aying awareness posters on the university campus  
The university worked to spread 
awareness about prevention precautions 
by hanging posters inside the campus.  
 
1.3.3 . Publication of the awareness guide about the emerging Corona virus 
It is worth noting that Cairo University 
has issued an awareness guide about the 
emerging corona virus, how it is 
transmitted, symptoms of infection and 
ways to prevent i t, and has also finished 
issuing a guide to rules and guidelines 
for home isolation for cases who suffer 
from minor symptoms of infection with 

15 
 the virus instead of transferring them to 
isolation hospitals, with the aim of 
educating students And employees a nd 
faculty members, and introducing the 
scientific rules of isolation, removing fear and ambiguity, and confronting 
popular recipes.  
 
1.3.4 . Cairo University had developed a comprehensive plan to manage the 
educational process since the beginning  of the Corona virus  
Procedures for the educational process 
(rooms, laboratories) and laboratories, 
libraries (Cairo University has 
developed a comprehensive plan to 
manage the educational process since 
the beginning of the Corona virus cr isis 
and for any possible scenario, by 
defining ways to ensure the safety and 
health of the university’s members, 
including students, members of the 
teaching staff, and workers, by 
periodically equipping and sterilizing 
laboratories and terraces). In addit ion to activating the university’s 
transformation plan into a third -
generation smart university and 
providing educational services 
electronically.  
 
 
1.3.5 . Providing electronic platforms 
and clarifying them for   
teaching staff  

16 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4. Campus facilities for disabled, special needs and or maternity care  
Cairo Univ. gives priority to care for 
students with special needs and has 
taken many steps to support people with 
special needs, as it was decided that 
students with special needs have the 
right to attend any faculty that suits their 
circumstances and represent their 
faculty at the University Students 
Union . The university has launched an 
initiative to integrate people with s pecial 
needs in the community. The initiative 
included many activities such as a 
training course teaching sign language for university staff and students in the 
Faculty of Physical Therapy.  
-Cairo University called on the new 
Students Union to prioritize t he 
demands of people with special needs to 
provide a safe environment for them 
inside the university. It was decided to 
abolish the term "Mongolian" from all 
courses at the university.  
 
 
1.4.1 . Cairo University established special roads for students and people s with 
physical disabilities in all faculties and institutions  

17 
  
1.4.2 . Cairo University established disability challenger’s center  
 
 
 

18 
  
 
 
1.4.3 . Cairo University provides Golf cars for people with disabilities  
 

19 
 1.4.4 . Cairo University developed disability support service center  
 
Cairo University established the Center 
for Services and Support for People with 
disabilities at the university, in order to 
spread the culture of inclusion inside and 
outside the university community, and 
implement the vision of Cairo 
University in achiev ing inclusion and 
equal opportunities and providing all 
services for students with disabilities to ensure the achievement of the principle 
of independence, in partnership with 
AMIDEAST.  Cairo University pays 
great attention to students with special 
needs, putting their requirements in 
mind and providing them with all the 
services and requirements they need, 
whether at the academic level or 
personal requirements related to them.  
 
 
 
 

20 
 1.5. Security and safety facilities  
 
Security administration is one of the 
most important administrations in 
Cairo University.  
It has many tasks, such as; preserving 
facilities of Cairo University, securing 
citizens inside the university, as well as 
lifting the level of discipline and 
guaran teeing that education renaissance 
is going on. The administration is 
responsible for supplying security and 
safety at the university's facilities: This 
will be achieved through:  
  
 
1.    Guarding, distributing guards 
among the university's facilities.  
2.    Supervising the movement of 
walking and traffic inside university 
campus and following -up violators.  
3.    Preparing daily comprehensive 
security reports about the university.  
4.    Making sure safety procedures 
inside the university is in work.  
5.    Scrutinizing IDs of individuals in 
front of main entries of the university.  
6.    Preparing entry cards of cars whose 
owners belong to Cairo University.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Cairo 
University 
Campus 
Safety 
provides Environmental Health & 

21 
 Safety, Emergency Preparedness and 
Fire Prevention Services, along with 
other public safety services to create a 
safe and secure environment for 
university students, staff, faculty, and 
visitors.  
1. Cairo University program in civil 
protection and fire alarm system.  
2. Cairo University seeks to achieve 
the largest percentage of civil 
protection for lives, buildings and 
institutions, and therefore the 
following has already been 
implemented . 
3. A comprehensive maintenance 
was carried out for all university 
buildings for fire alarm systems, 
the supply and installation of new 
systems in all administrative and 
central buildings, and work is 
underway on the rest of the 
university’s faculties.  
4. A firefighting system was built 
inside the university campus and a water tank for the fir e was made 
for both of them.  
5. (Campus - University Dorms - 
Faculty of Computers and 
Information - Faculty of 
Physiotherapy - Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine - Faculty of 
Agriculture - University Branch 
in Sheikh Zayed) in order to 
ensure civil protection an d 
firefighting at the university.  
 
 
 
 
6. The civil protection work for the university dormitories has been completely started, 
and the work has been assigned to the Arab Organization for Industrialization with a work 

22 
 plan that includes all un iversity dormitory buildings. Cairo University has built a complete 
and integrated security system to secure the entire campus and faculties from inside and 
outside.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. A network of surveillance cameras has been 
installed on the entire university campus and colleges to ensure a safe learning 
environment.  A complete and comprehensive maintenance of the surveillance 
camera system is carried out.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

23 
  
Securing campus ports  
Entry is secured to all campus entrances 
in cooperation with the security 
elements of the security company to 
control all campus entrances and to 
ensure that no suspicious elements are 
entered among the students and the entry of any undesirable materials t o avoid the 
dangers of sabotage or to take out 
anything from the university that is not 
authorized to leave in order to avoid For 
acts of theft therefore the following 
actions are performed:  
1. Determining the entry and exit 
ports and limitin g them to the narrowest 
limits in order to facilitate the control of 
the visitors to the university.  
2.  Assigning sufficient guards at the 
entrances to control them, in 
cooperation with the security elements 
of Falco Company.  
3. Follow up the entry of students 
and alert the need to wear a mask and maintain the precautionary measures 
and social distancing to limit the spread 
of the Corona virus.  
4. For faculty members and 
employees, they are allowed to enter 
according to the identity card, as for 
students, they are allowed to enter 
according to the college or institute 
card.  

24 
 5.  For foreigners and other 
temporary workers "contract 
workers...etc", specific entry permits 
are issued to them showing the 
necessary data and photographs.  
6. For visitors, they are not allowed 
to enter until after verifying the identity 
of the visitor and agreeing to the visit of 
the person who is requested to visit, 
provided that the data (the visitor’s 
name / his name / identity card number 
/ its issuer / the person to be visited / the 
date and t ime of entry and exit) are 
recorded.  
7. It is not permitted to leave the 
university cars except by virtue of a 
written permission stating (the driver’s 
name / car number / type of assignment 
/ date and time of exit and return).  
8. Monitoring cars carrying goods or 
items coming to the university / college 
/ institute and seizing suspicious parcels 
in order to avoid sabotage operations 
that may occur on this road. Also, loaded 
cars leaving the university / college / 
institute are inspected to ensure their safe exit  and they are not allowed to 
leave without a written permission to the 
contents.  
9. Activating the magnetic 
university card devices on the 
university campus ports to verify the 
identity of the students, faculty 
members, employees and visitors to the 
universit y, to prevent the entry of any 
unauthorized persons to enter the 
campus and to follow up the destructive 
elements among the students inside the 
campus.  
10. Installing iron corridors at the 
university campus ports so that it is 
easier to control the visitors on  the 
university campus to prevent the entry 
of any unauthorized persons to enter.  
11. Coordination with the 
administration of the university and 
colleges before allowing visitors to 
enter  
12. Coordination with the university 
administration before a llowing the 
entry of non -accredited media outlets to 
cover events and activities on campus .
25 
 13. Not allowing entry of vehicles of all kinds except for those who are authorized to 
enter and after verifying the identity of their driver and inspecting them.  
 
Distribution of campus outlets  
1. The main port: It consists of a car 
entry port, a car exit port, and two 
(2) ports for individuals to 
enter/exit, an entry/exit port for 
faculty members, an entrance to 
the university hospital, and an 
outlet for visits.  
2. The public port: It includes (1) 
port for entry/exit of individuals, 
the university hospital, and a 
closed car port. The port is closed 
at 4:00 pm.  
3. Trade outlet: It includes (1) port 
for entry/exit of individuals and 
(1) port for individuals’ 
entry/exit.  
4. Trade outlet 2: It includes a port 
for cars to enter / exit, and the port 
is closed at 5 pm  5. The laser port: It includes a port 
for entry/exit of cars (closed) to 
be used in case of emergency 
only.  
6. Dar Al Uloom  Port: It includes a 
port for entry/exit of individuals 
and a port for entry/exit of cars.  
7. Metro outlet: It includes two (2) 
entry points for individuals and 
one (1) outlet for individuals to 
exit. 
 
 

26 
 1.6. Health infrastructure facilities for st udents, academics and administrative 
staff’s wellbeing  
Cairo University's hospitals are the 
oldest educational and medical hospitals 
and the largest in Egypt and the Middle 
East. It is the citadel of medicine in the 
Arab region. Thanks for C airo 
University's hospitals, the  world is being 
supplied with the most skilled 
physicians. Cairo University's hospitals 
include a group of educational and 
medical hospitals in all the branches of 
medicine.  
In 1837, El Qasr El Ainy hospital has 
been establi shed first as a medical 
hospital in surgery, internal medicine, 
ophthalmology, dermatology, and venereal diseases. This was the basis of 
the School of Medicine.  
El Qasr El Ainy has continued to 
perform its sublime message in all 
circumstances. Its physicia ns lifted 
Egypt's name high in the world's sky 
until a decree of demolishing was issued 
on 17/3/1977 to establish a hospital, 
with modern construction and 
equipment, on the area that was 
occupied by El Qasr El Ainy. The 
hospital with 1200 beds capacity. It  has 
been partially inaugurated in 1955 to 
receive patients. Cairo University's 
hospitals include the following medical 
and educational units:  
1. El Manial Academic Hospital  
The number of beds at El Manial 
Academic Hospital counts about1794 
beds distributed a mong its different 
departments. The hospital is 
administratively divided into three 
administrative units:  
a)    El Manial El Bahary Hospital:  It supervises surgery departments no. 6, 
28, 28, 30, urology department no. 17 
and internal medic ine department no. 9, 
19, 31, orthopedic department no. 7, 20. 
It also supervises accidents reception 
and central rays.  
b)    El Manial El Qebly Hospital:  
It supervises surgery departments no. 5, 
27 
 25, 27, cardiology and ophthalmology 
department no. 12, 14, 16, neurology 
departments no. 4, 15, chest medicine, 
dermatology and venereal diseases, ear, 
nose, and throat department, and 
psychiatry department.  
c)    Operations Units:  
They include operations rooms that 
serve both El Manial El Bahary and El 
Manial El Qebly Hospitals. It is 
composed of 16 equipped operations 
rooms.  
The Kasr Al Ainy Obstetrics and 
Gynecology Hospital  
It is one of Cairo University's hospitals. 
It includes five departments for 
obstetrics and gynecology departments 
that contain 297 beds and two operations 
rooms, besides, two departments of 
surgery and laboratories at Premature 
Infants Unit.  
The Kasr Al Ainy Obstetrics and 
Gynecology Hospital is a major national 
and regional referral center providing 
state-of-the-art medical service.  The 
hospital offers a comprehensive range of services in the field of women ’ s 
health, including general obstetrics and 
gynecology, high risk pregnancy, 
prenatal diagnosis and fetal medicine, 
urogynecology, gynecologic oncology, 
reproductive endocrinology an d 
infertility.  
 Six inpatient units (Depts. 22, 32 
& 33) with a total of 175 beds.  
 An antenatal care and fetal 
medicine unit (Dept. 21) with 
3D and 4D ultrasound facilities.  
 A general surgery unit (Dept. 11) 
with 55 beds.  
 A neonatology unit equipped with 
28 incubators.  
 A 24/7 casualty unit (Dept. 10) 
that includes:  
 An 18 -bed pre -labor ward Two 
operating theaters   Three 
normal labor rooms  
 A 9-bed intermediate intensive 
care unit (ICU . 
 
28 
 2. Internal  Medicine  Hospital  
(IMH)  
 
It is a special  hospital,  majoring  in 
treatment  of internal  diseases.  It 
consists  of seven  floors,  serving  curative  
and teaching  purposes.  It has 306 beds,  
as well as radiology  devices  and 
laboratories.  It is a stand -alone hospital 
that is specialized in internal medicine. 
It includes seve n floors that serve 
medical and educational purposes, 
containing 306 beds other than rays and 
laboratories equipment’s.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Pediatrics New Academic 
Hospital  

29 
 It is a hospital that was constructed by 
the most recent medical equipment in 
the world. It started to work in 1983 
with 185 beds capacity and four 
operations rooms other than rays 
equipment and specialized laboratories. 
This hospital works in perfect 
integration to provide Egyptian and 
Arab children with medical service. It is 
consider ed an advanced center at the 
highest global level in field s of 
pediatrics and its surgery . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
External Clinic  
It includes different clinics of several medicine branches. It presents diagnostic and medical 
services to its visitors. It also pays for medicine  suitable to its cases. It is regarded as an 
independent administrative unit, in accordance with decentralization system that is 
followed by hospitals.  
 
4. The Student  Hospital  
 
The Old Building  
1) Consists of four floors and includes:  
  Emergency Room (ER): capacity 4 
beds 15 Specialized Outpatients Departments 
(OPD): OBG, ENT,   Chest, Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Dermatology, Urology, 
Internal   medicine for males and 
females, Psychiatry, 

30 
 Cardiology,   Physiotherapy, Diabetes, 
Orthopedics and Neurosurgery.  2 Dental 
clinics.  5 Inpatients Departments - 100 
beds, Operating Room (OR): 4 
tables  Laboratory, 
Radiology ,Pharmacy,  Laundry   Kitchen  
 Nephrology and Dialysis; 9 
machines   Rehabilitation Department.  
2) An average of  64219 students were 
seen by the OPD last year  
3) An average of, 1238 students were 
admitted in inpatients departments  
4) An average of 992 students was 
operated upon.  
5) The Hospital is also responsible f or 
treating some of the faculty  members 
and the peo ple working in the university.  
6) The hospital also provides treatment 
for symbolic prices.  
7) A major renovation operation has 
included the OR, kitchen, laundry,   also 
outside passages and the garden.  
 
 
 
New  Building  
Consists of four floors and include:    12 Specialized Outpatients 
Departments (OPD): ENT, 
Surgery,   Ophthalmology, Urology, 
Orthopedics, Dermatology,, 
Internal   medicine for males and 
females, OBG, Chest & 
Pediatrics,   Psychiatry, Cardiology.  
Dental clinic . Self paying patients' 
pharmacy . Intensive care unit (8 bed for 
critical care), (4 beds for   intermediate 
care)  Gastroenterology Endoscopy 
Department.  OR (4 opertating rooms 
and 1 recovery room).  IPD capacity 48 
beds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

31 
  
5. New  Kasr  El-Aini Teaching  
Hospital    
Created on: 2/22/1995  and considered 
the special medical center equipped with up to date advanced scientific methods 
and modern technology
. 
 
 
 
  

32 
   

33 
 [3] Energy and Climate Change  
 Background:  
Cairo University is making great efforts in making a comprehensive 
development to advance the university at all educational, research and 
environmental levels  within the framework of its strategy to shift toward s 
fourth generation universities  despite the exceptional circumstances 
imposed by the Corona pandemic.  
Making regular environmental measurements is one of the most important 
legations to save the environment. This is done to all different facilities aiming  
to make an environmental records and recording the measurement results, 
controlling and environmental monitoring regularly and continuously.  
Also The strategic plan of the international branch of Cairo University is 
based on analyzing the current situatio n of Cairo University, taking into 
account the strategic vision for higher education in the Arab Republic of 
Egypt, which is derived from Egypt’s Vision 2030, allowing the preparation 
of a bold, effective and reversible strategy that works to achieve disti nction 
as a main goal and reflects the available and expected inputs to build on The 
historical strengths of Cairo University with the development of new fields 
and programs that can move the university to different levels and horizons.  
 
  
34 
  [3.1] Energy efficient appliances usage are replacing conventional 
appliances  
1- Installing solar heaters to provide hot water for all campus restaurants 
and student housing . 
2) Replacing all external incandescent lamps for all buildings and 
lighting poles with more energy efficient LEDs.  
3) The use of lighting poles inside the university campus with 
solar energy cells for lighting at night .  
4- Activating the pilot plant project for the production of 
electrical energy at the Faculty of Engineering.  
5- The installati on of occupancy sensor is an indoor motion detection 
device used to detect the presence of a person to control the lights 
automatically  
6- Assigning the administrative security to ensure that all lit lamps are 
turned off at night, as well as on holidays an d vacations.  
7- Recommending obligating colleges to establish an energy management 
team in departments and units, which works to monitor and follow up on 
energy use . 
8- Cairo University formed a committee to follow up the implementation of 
the government's  plan to rationalize electricity consumption in buildings and 
facilities.  
9- The tendency to purchase energy -saving devices instead of traditional 
devices.  

35 
 10- 90% of the external incandescent lamps for all buildings and lighting 
poles have been replaced w ith more energy efficient LED lamps.  
3.2. Total campus' smart building area (m2) 
 
International branch of Cairo University in 6th October city  
The international branch of Cairo University is the way to transform into third -
generation universities, which aims to move higher education towards 
globalization and achieve educational distinction, with smart building design.  
3.3. Smart building implemen tation   

36 
  
 
International branch of Cairo University in 6th October city  
 
The International Branch of Cairo University is considered a nucleus for 
providing an integrated educational approach that aims to integrate 
education and scientific research and the exploitation of knowledge. Related 
programs that support the values of development, innovat ion and 
sustainable development by smart building implementation.  
 
3.4. Renewable energy sources on campus  = solar energy.  
Fourteen Solar cells have been installed  in university buildings.  

37 
  
 

38 
  
The implementation of solar cells on one of Cairo university buildings  
3.5. Renewable energy sources and its capacity (in kilowatt hour)  
The electrical power produced by Solar roofs= 660 kilowatts  and this is a 
nucleus for extending the implementation of solar cells in most of university 
buildings.  
 

39 
  
3.6. Electricity usage per year (in kilowatt hours) = 16000 000  
 

40 
  
 
3.7. Total electricity usage divided by total campus' population (kWh 
per person)  
The total campus populations is divided as follows  
- Staff members number is 12,988  
- Students number is 307,002  
- The officers and workers number is 12158  
The total campus population will be 332148  
Total electricity usage divided by total campus' populat ion (kWh per 
person)  
48.17  
3.8. The ratio of renewable energy production divided by total energy 
usage per year  

41 
 600/16000000= 0.0000375  
This ratio is too low but the university is extending the implementation of 
the solar cells in most of university buildings.  
3.9 Elements of green building implementation as reflected in all 
construction and renovation policies  
 Green building offers employees  a comprehensive set of best practices to 
help their design and construct efficient, healthy homes that benefi t the 
community, the environment, and your bottom line.  
First element is Site planning and design  
Cairo University offers a ffordable housing works best when residents have 
easy access to key services and transit. Infill sites have these and many 
more envi ronmental benefits. Cairo university apply that  and by taking care 
of trees and soil conditions during construction.  
 
 

42 
  
Second element is Indoor Air Quality  
Indoor air quality significantly impacts Cairo university resident health and 
comfort --essential g oals for any building. Achieving a high quality indoor 
environment requires careful design, construction, and materials choices, 
and thus strong coordination among the building team. Indoor air quality 
centers on well -designed ventilation and moisture cont rol, which goes hand 
in hand with energy efficiency and building durability. Ongoing maintenance 
is important, of course, as is a commitment to finding alternatives to toxic 
materials and finishes.  
 
 
  

43 
 Third element  is Water  
Conserve finite freshwater resources and reduce utility bills by installing 
water -efficient appliances and plumbing fixtures, landscaping with drought -
resistant plants and efficient irrigation, and greywater to use.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sewage water treatment unit installation  
  

44 
 Fourth element: Commissioning  
Commissioning is the process of making sure that a building works right. By 
systematically evaluating and adjusting building systems to function together 
as designed, commissioning optimizes efficiency, hea lth, and comfort. A 
commissioning agent --often a third -party architect or engineer --gives advice 
during the design phase and follows through with testing during construction 
and training of operations and maintenance staff.  
[3.10] Greenhouse gas emission e valuation and reduction program  
Time of last record: September 2021  
The recent report of Cairo University ( September 2021) was done by center 
of hazard mitigation, environmental studies and research in Cairo University. 
This center is considered one of th e research and advisory centers 
accredited by the Environmental Affairs Agency , with URL: 
http://www.chmesr.edu.eg/ar/ . 
 
45 
  
 
Environmental measurements including  
1- Suspended dust concentration . 
2- Inhaled dust concentration  
3- Noise intensity  
4- Detection of different greenhouse gases (CO - CO 2- VOC’s)  
 
 

46 
 Measurements and devices used  
 
 
 
 

47 
 Results of measurements  
The following table shows the suspended dust concentration and i nhaled 
dust concentration  recorded during rush hours in Cairo University at the main 
gate, this data reveals that the concentration of dust is within the allowed 
concentration according to environmental law number 4 for the year 1994, 
corrected by law 9 for year 2009, law number 1 05 for the year 2015.  
 
 
 
 
 

48 
  
3.11 Total carbon footprint (CO ₂ emission in the last 12 months, in 
metric tons)  
No. Description  CO 2 emission (tons) in 
last 12 months  Proportion (%)  
1. Transportation Cars  41.416  87.27  
2. Transportation buses  5.127  10.80  
3. Transportation  
motorcycle  0.914  1.93 
Total   47.457  100 
 

49 
 3.12. Total carbon footprint divided by total campus' population (metric 
tons per person)  
47.457/332148= 0.000142879 metric tons per person  
Cairo University is advising staff members to park cars only in parking areas 
to reduce the CO 2 emission  and also is planning to make a huge parking area 
outside the campus to reduce carbon footprint.  
Also Cairo University is advising staff members, worker s to use busses to 
reduce number of cars entering the campus daily.  
 
3.13 Impactful university program(s) on climate change  
A cooperation protocol between the Ministry of Environment and Cairo 
University to establish the first university programs for environmental 
sciences in Africa and the Middle East in cooperation with the World Bank  
 

50 
 A cooperation protocol between the university and the Ministry of 
Environment in preparing university programs for environmental sciences 
through the Air Pollution an d Climate Change Management Project in 
cooperation with the World Bank, within the framework of the presidential 
mandate related to the implementation of an integrated project to reduce and 
limit air pollution and climate change.  
The President of Cairo Uni versity said that the signing of the protocol comes 
within the framework of Cairo University’s transformation into the fourth 
generation of universities that focus within what focuses on the ecosystem, 
and in order to consolidate the role of the university  in many development 
axes and the integration of the university’s educational and research plan 
with Egypt’s strategic vision 2030, and the sustainable development goal s of 
the United Nations.  
Dr. Muhammad Al -Khasht explained that the air pollution and cli mate change 
management programs are the first programs of their kind in Africa and the 
Middle East, where their axes interact in a dynamic and integrated manner 
to keep pace with the fundamental transformations in the labor market, and 
its need for new typ es of graduates equipped with the latest sources of 
science, knowledge and modern technology. Building a modern graduate 
personality that has the ability to creatively interact with various technology 
systems and keep pace with the future challenges of env ironmental 
sustainability.  
 
Dr. Muhammad Al -Khasht stressed the importance of employing 
multidisciplinary sciences in study and research programs related to the 
51 
 environment, because it is by nature a multidisciplinary field, which is at the 
heart of the fu nction of fourth -generation universities, noting that most future 
jobs require scientific training from various disciplines.  
The cooperation protocol between Cairo University and the Ministry of 
Environment includes preparing scientific content in Arabic a nd English for 
the university education program specialized in environmental sciences, 
establishing an entity to organize periodically approved training programs for 
workers in the field of environment and its protection, and coordinating 
between Cairo Uni versity and the Ministry of Environment to hold periodic 
workshops to introduce environmental issues and challenges. Contemporary 
and future, launching a joint awareness campaign on air pollution 
management and climate change, inclusion of scientific curri cula at the 
graduate and postgraduate levels on air pollution management and climate 
change, dissemination and expansion of green jobs, and building scientific 
and technical capabilities and capabilities for practitioners of those jobs 
through university e ducation specialized in science of t he environment.  
 
 
  

52 
  
 
 

53 
 [4] Waste  (WS)  
[4.1] Recycling Program fo r University Waste  
 Waste recycling is done independently in each department and faculty. 
Separation of plastic, paper and food using garbage’s boxes takes place 
from the beginning. One of the university's pollution -reduction initiatives is to 
recycle waste. Food trash is recycled into bird food using special machinery; 
nonetheless, plastic and paper garbage is collected and sold to an echo -
conserve certified company for waste transfer and treatment. Every week on 
Thursday, the waste management unit is in charge of transporting these 
segregated wastes from each faculty and selling them to dealers to be 
recycled in usable form.  Other unclassified Wastes, that are not recycled, 
are stored in their form under dry fermentation conditions and transferred to 
incinerator.  

54 
  
 
[4.2] Programs to reduce the use of paper and plastic on campus  
From 2019, the university has authorized policies and methods aimed at 
reducing paper and plastic usage, such as reusable cups and printing on 
both sides. As digital transfer is one of Egypt's Vision 2030 goals, the 
university has implemented a number of projects, including:  

55 
  - Use of blackboard platform as an e -learning 
channel for teaching, education, scientific 
materials instead of papers over all faculties of 
universities . 
 
 
- Approved usage of an e -documentation system instead of paper 
documents in all university e -meetings, e -announcements, and e -office work.  
  - Use pdf scanning file document replacing photocopy document to reduce 
paper consumption .  
- Use of electronic  system to communicate, announce faculty members, 
students and employees in more than 90% of university’s faculties.  
- Implementation of e -financial system to execute all process to reduce paper 
consumption.  
 - Use of reusable bags instead of plastics .  
- Use of digital art works instead of papers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

56 
 The university now is one of Egyptian universities that is known as Fifth 
generation university and awarded the first green university overall Egypt . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

57 
  
 
[4.3] Organic Waste Treatment  
Because  of the Covid -19 crisis, university organic wastes were roughly 
526.49 tons in 2020, down from 675.96 tons in 2018. This was due to the 
adoption of e -education. Organic waste accounts for 19.56 percent of all 
university garbage. Food waste accounts for aro und 45 percent of all organic 
waste generated at universities.  There is a program of fertilizer production 
from these food wastes established in faculty of agriculture and 
biotechnology program in faculty of science and ministry of environment from 
2018. A facility for energy production is being built in collaboration with the 
Ministry of the Environment. It is scheduled to begin in March of 2022.  

58 
  
 
[4.4] Inorganic Waste Treatment  
The total inorganic wastes were 978.12 tons/year (36.35 %) of the total 
wastes of university based on collected data in 2020. Both of Covid -19 and 
digital transfer polices of university lower the consumption of paper 
consumption especially and other inorganic sources by 10% based on data 
in 2018. The university with collaboration  of a certified waste management 
company established a weekly system for the waste sorting, transfer and 
selling to recycled companies.  

59 
  
 
 
  
 

60 
 [4.5] Toxic Waste Treatment  
Due to the Covid -19 crisis, the average infectious wastes collected from CU 
hospitals in 2020 were higher than those collected in 2019, as CU had one 
of its hospitals designated as an isolation hospital. Infectious waste, such as 
needles, sharp objects, tissues, bathroom wastes, and so on, accounts for 
3.25 tons of waste every day . For the treatment of these wastes, there is a 
recognized system that meets Ministry of Health criteria, as indicated in 
figure 13.  Faculty of medicine CU use a non -pollution incinerator, that 
matches with standards of Ministry of Health, for elimination of hazardous 
waste and has an established system for treatment of remaining ash from 
burned medical wastes . A certified organization licensed to deal with and 
handle these wastes removes both hazardous chemicals and wastes every 
three months.  
 
 
 
 

61 
  
 
 

62 
  
 
[4.6] Sewage Disposal  
The wastewater collected by CU from various campus zones is processed in 
accordance with the environment ministry's standards and policies. The 
purified water is used to water plants and gardens in the university's public 
spaces at a rate of roughly 2000 cm3/day.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

63 
   

64 
 5. Water (WR)  
5.1. Water conservation program and implementation (WR.1)  
The River Nile  is the main source of freshwater in the Cairo University as it gives a 
daily source of the water source that sustains us. The water flowing through our 
campus taps for dr inking and daily use originates in the River Nile . 
 
The River Nile water is  then treated in the Giza water station through a complex 
process to become safe, high quality drinking water, and distributed to the campus 
throughout the city by water pipes.  

65 
  
 
- Mechanisms of rationalizing water consumption within the university campus  
A new drinking and fire water network has been installed and is being 
received, where the water pressures are controlled) to suit the use.  
 
 

66 
 Work to rationalize water consumption  
- The faculties were addressed to take the necessary action towards 
rationalization by speeding up the repair of damaged sanitary ware and 
making posters to guide the university's affiliates, students, administrators and 
faculty members, on the importance of rationalization in consumption and the 
speed of reporting any leaks.  
- A follow -up committee was formed twice a month to follow up on the various 
colleges to find out any problems resulting from water pipe leaks to prevent 
waste resulting from these leaks.  
- Plans and mechanisms for maintaining taps and internal supply networks for 
the university to prevent water wastage  
- Water -saving cutting technology is a modern, simple and easy way to 
disassemble and install it is installed on the nozzles of the taps currently in 
use without the need to change those taps at all. Flowing water, which 
achieves the rationalization axis, one of the most important axes of the 
strategy for the development and management of water resources.  
- Replac ing pipes with drilled holes with spray manifolds.  
- Using m anual spraying system once a day  for irrigation.  
- The workers b e sure nozzles are properly positioned to ensure precise spray 
coverage with minimal waste . 
- Install ing in-line strainers on all spray headers  with inspect ion of  nozzles 
regularly for clogging and wear . 
-As a result of the problem of water scarcity and the university’s belief in its 
important role as a key partner to confront this problem and to activate the 
principle of sustainable development, Cairo University has l ong since tended 
to plant drought -tolerant plants such as palms (date palms and prichardia) and 
67 
 trees (conocarpus, tamarind, prosops, Broad pepper, Ficus netda, glass 
mattress, carob, cypress, lemon cypress, thin pepper, decrostaches, sycamore, 
bell, caszu rina, buckthorn, olive, arthurina, poinciana, acacialinga and fitna).  
 
- List of planted trees in the campus.  
 
 
List of dates in the campus  
 

68 
 Date palms   
prichardia  
 

69 
 conocarpus  
 
prosopis  
 

70 
 Ficus netda  
 
 
  
-  

71 
 -  
- Template for Evidence(s)  
- UI GreenMetric  Questionnaire  
- Cairo University has ground tank for water conservation  

72 
  
 
5.2. Water recycling program implementation (WR.2)  
Water recycling and reuse mechanisms  
Each individual consumes 152 liters of water per day, approximately 15% of 
which is gray water, which means that it needs less complex treatments to 
transform into water suitable for secondary uses such as garden irrigation for 
cleaning purposes, toilets and other uses, and from this point of view, Cairo 
University implements several mechanism s. 
Two units for the treatment of gray water were established at Cairo 
University in the following places (the mosque of the Faculty of 
Commerce / Building No. 2 in the University City) and based on the 
visits and inspections that were made on this subject . The unit consists 
of the following:  
1. Gray water collection tank.  

73 
 2. Water pump.  
3. Treated water collection tank.  
4. A washing water tank or sewage line.  
5. Sand filter: - purification of impurities from water to 52 microns.  
6. Carbon filter: To remove colour, taste and  odor.  
7. Micro purification: - To purify impurities from water up to 22 
microns.  
8. Super purification: - To purify the impurities down to 5 microns.  
9. Ultraviolet sterilization: To kill bacteria in water by means of 
ultraviolet rays.  
10. Operation and control unit.  
11. External fence to protect the unit.  
 
- Cairo University owns a pilot wastewater treatment plant for the safe disposal 
of wastewater.  

74 
  
 
5.3. Water efficient appliances usage (WR.3)  
Currently, Cairo University started water -saving equipment change and water  supply 
management system installation in accordance with the actual operating conditions  
A water efficient water 
closet (toilet)  
 

75 
 Automatic sensor 
tap  
 
Compressed air 
tap 
 
dual flush toilet  
 

76 
 Urinal automatic 
sensor  
 
 
 
 Water taps  Toilets  Showers  Urinals  
Normal  Water 
saving  Normal  Water 
saving  Normal  Water 
saving  Normal  Water 
saving  
Quantity 
(Pieces)  19,678  543 26,378  311 - - 3,476  211 
Total 
quantity  
(Pieces)  20,221  26,689  - 3,687  
Ratio [%]  97,31  2.75 98,83  1.16 - - 94.27  5.72 
Total 
proportion  
[%]  1.065 from 50,597 pieces with ration of 2.1 %  
 
5.4. Consumption of treated water (WR.4)  
Treated wastewater System Cairo University is reused for gardening and 
watering the lawn of the common areas of the university.  
 
 
 
 

77 
   

78 
 6. Transportation  
6.1 Cars actively used and managed by university  
• Cairo university provides cars for research purposes as well as some cars 
for examination services outside campus.  
• Cairo University provides a mass transportation policy by providing 49 
buses operating on 49 line s and providing a safe and comfortable means of 
transportation for 1,553 employees and faculty members. From here, it is 
clear that each bus carries approximately 28 people.   
• President of Cairo University: We are studying a project to produce 
an Egyptian -made car  
Dr. Mohamed Othman Elkhosht, President of Cairo University, said that the 
university is ready to transfer technology in the field of manufacturing and 
production of engines and build integrated production lines through its 
research centers and un its, to become ready for implementation on the 
ground for industrial quantitative production.   
79 
 6.2. Number of cars entering the university daily  
Cairo University leader decided not to allow cars to enter the university 
campus unless they have a university permit and not to enter cars for 
students, and parking cars in the places designated for them on the campus, 
so as not to impede the movement of students or the work of administrative 
security or the movement of cars heading to the campus, and the entry of  
new students to the campus will be organized with a card Nomination for 
their colleges located on the campus with the presentation of the identity 
card, while the old students enter their colleges with the card of the last 
academic year until the completi on of the issuance of university cards for all 
students before the end of the current month of October. As for people, who 
are not affiliated with Cairo University, who have interests and connections 
within the university campus, and visiting delegations, their entry will be 
arranged through the university's public relations.  
 

80 
  
2   Energy and 
Climate 
Change (EC)  
 
6.3 Shuttle services  
• Cairo University provides a mass transportation policy by providing 49 
buses operating on 49 lines and providing a safe and comfortable means of 
transportation for 1,553 employees and faculty members. From here, it is 
clear that each bus carries approximately 28 people.  
• Shuttle service is provided (by the university or other parties) and the 
university contributes a part of the cost.  
• The university is characterized by an excellent and strategic location, with 
many public transportation means.  

81 
 • The university provides a comprehensive bus service available to all its 
members.  
• Buses operate on set times throughout the day, five days a week, in 
addition to limited times on Saturdays.  
• Faculty of Commerce, Cairo University, provides transportation for 
students of the English Language Division at El -Sheikh Branch.  
• The university has a dedicated door for the Cairo Univer sity metro station.  
• Operating high -quality buses to connect the 6th of October and Sheikh 
Zayed areas with the Cairo University metro.  
Engineer Sherif El -Sherbiny, Head of the 6th of October City Authority, 
revealed a project to operate high -quality buse s to connect the 6th of October 
and Sheikh Zayed areas with the Cairo University metro, stressing that the 
project includes buses and minibuses, as there are 50 minibuses within the 
project, as well as 20 buses with a load of 40 passengers.  
 

82 
  
 
 
6.4. Zero  Emission Vehicles (ZEV) policy on campus   
Cairo University is making great efforts in making a comprehensive 
development to advance the university at all educational, research and 
environmental levels within the framework of its strategy to shift towards 
fourth generation universities despite the exceptional circumstances 
imposed by the Corona pandemic.  
Making regular environmental measurements is one of the most important 
legations to save the environment. This is done to all different facilities aiming 
to make an environmental records and recording the measurement results, 
controlling and environmental monitoring regularly and continuously.  
The continuous efforts aiming to zero emission is planned by different ways:  

83 
 - Planning to make a huge parking area outside the campus  
- Planning to increase shuttles for transportation instead of huge number of 
cars.  
- Planning to make deal with ministry of petroleum to construct a building for 
replacing benzene cars with natural gas to encourage staff members.  
- Encou rage the use of electric or hybrid cars.  
- Encourage using bicycles  
- Put filter on cafeterias to filtrate gases before release to atmosphere.  
  
84 
 6.5. Zero Emission Vehicles (e.g. bicycles, electric car, etc.) on campus 
per day  
1- The President of Cairo Un iversity leads a bicycle marathon inside 
the university campus  
Dr. Mohamed Othman Elkhosht, President of Cairo University, led a cycling 
marathon inside the university campus; celebrating the start of the new 
academic year with the participation of dozens of university students.  
He announced the opening of renovation and development works in the 
university city of Cairo University in the coming days.  
 He explained that 6 buildings in the University City and the green areas of 
the University City were renovated, and the university mosque was also 
renovated and developed.  
 
 
85 
  
 

86 
  
 
 
2- A Cairo engineering team won a bronze medal for inventing an 
electric  race car  

87 
 Cairo University President Dr. Mohamed Othman Elkhosht announced that 
the Cairo University Racing Team -Formula Student team won the bronze 
medal at the “Geneva International Exhibition of Inventions” in its 
extraordinary session 2021 for their i nvention of an electric racing car, and 
the Academy of Scientific Research and Technology nominated the team to 
participate in the exhibition from Among the hundreds of applicants.  
Al-Khasht said, in a statement issued by Cairo University, that the univers ity 
encourages its students to participate in international competitions and is 
keen to provide them with the opportunity for creativity, innovation and 
communication with their peers from all over the world, stressing its support 
for student projects and innovations in various fields, indicating that 
distinguished rewards will be disbursed. For winning students and the 
supervisory body.  
The President of Cairo University indicated that the Faculty of Engineering 
has advanced in international classifications  and is ranked globally among 
the top 150 in the British QS classification, and comes in the category 
between the top 200: 300 in the world in the Chinese classification 
“Shanghai” for the year 2020, noting that the College of Engineering is not 
just a col lege for learning and graduating cadres only, but it is a house of 
expertise that has the best cadres locally, regionally and internationally.  
 
 
88 
  
6.6. Ratio of parking area to total campus area.  
Formula: ((2500/1105126.12) x 100%)= 0.226  
 
 
6.7. Initiative s to decrease private vehicles on campus  
1- Encouraging riding bicycles by Cairo University President Dr. Mohamed 
Othman Elkhosht  
2- President of Cairo University is studying a project to produce an 
Egyptian -made car.  
3- Planning to make deal with ministry  of petroleum to construct a building 
for replacing benzene cars with natural gas to encourage staff members.  

89 
 4- Planning to make a huge parking area outside the campus  
6.8. Pedestrian path on campus   
Pedestrian paths are available, designed for safety, co nvenience, and in 
some parts provided with disabled -friendly features.  
- Safety: equipped with enough lighting, separator between road for vehicle 
and pedestrian path, and some handrail.  
- Convenience: Level difference with a mild slant for walking alongside the 
pavement, some area covered, using soft (rubber, woods, etc.) material, 
availability of location information and directions  
- Disabled -friendly: ramps and guiding blocks which have a suitable design 
for pedestrian having physical disabilities . 
 

90 
  
 
Golf cars to deliver students of Cairo University with disabilities to 
exam venues  
More attention is given to people with disabilities in Egypt, and this time 
interest appeared in Cairo University, which succeeded in cooperation with 
an unnamed comp any in providing 3 golf carts for students with special 
needs to move around the university from one place to another, specifically 
to the examination sites. This unnamed company donated the three cars, 
whose capacity varies between 4 and 6 people.  

91 
 These v ehicles will also serve the university's faculty members and 
employees with disabilities, and will be present at the university's gates to 
transport students, staff and teachers to the places they want. Two cars will 
be present continuously inside the univ ersity and a third car in the University 
City to serve students with disabilities and transport them to the examination 
sites in the university's stadiums.  
 
 
 
 
 

92 
   

93 
 7. Education and Research  
7.1. Total number of courses offered  
No. Institution  Total  
1.  Faculty of Science  2040  
2.  Faculty of Law  700 
3.  Faculty of Arts  1460  
4.  Faculty of Engineering  1480  
5.  Faculty of Medicine   2600  
6.  Faculty of Computers and Artificial Intelligence  1880  
7.  Faculty of Pharmacy   980 
8.  Faculty of Agriculture  1840  
9.  Faculty of Economics and Political Science  920 
10.  Faculty of Archaeology   1100  
11.  Faculty of Commerce   1600  
12.  Faculty of Specific Education   480 
13.  Faculty of Nursing  1023  
14.  Faculty of Physical Therapy   843 
15.  Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine  674 
16.  Faculty of Veterinary Medicine  1988  
17.  Faculty of Dar El -Ulum  543 
18.  Faculty of Education For Early Childhood  432 
19.  Faculty of Graduate Studies for Statistical Research   1430  
20.  Faculty of African Postgraduate Studies  1230  
21.  Faculty of Regional and Urban Planning  423 
22.  Faculty of Graduat e Studies for Education  476 
23.  Faculty of Nanotechnology for Postgraduates Studies  37 
24.  Faculty of Mass Communication  622 
25.  National Institute of Laser Enhanced Sciences (NILES)   323 
94 
 26.  National Cancer Institute  89 
Total  27,213  
 
7.2. Number of courses/subjects related to sustainability offered  
 
Cairo University has established 26 
academic units, both faculties and 
institutes, offering 1460 degree 
programs, which are 314 Bachelor’s, 
459 Diploma’s, 400 Master’s and 287 
Doctoral degree programs with the 
total of 27,213 courses or subjects. About 17, 688 that representing 64.99 
% of the total courses studied in the 
Cairo Universit y are related to 
sustainability.  
 
 
 
2721317688Total number of
courses/subjects offered
Number of courses/subjects
related to sustainability
offered
95 
 7.3. Representative courses of sustainability courses studied in the Cairo 
University.  
No. Degree  Programs  Faculty  
1.   
 
 
 
Bachelor's  
 SUSTAINABLE ENERGY 
ENGINEERING [SEE]   
 
 
 
        Engineering  2.  Infrastructure engineering program  
3.  Architectural engineering and 
technology program  
4.  Healthcare Engineering and 
Management Program  
5.  Electrical Power Engineering Program  
6.  Water and Environmental 
Engineering Program  
7.  Sustainable Energy Engineering 
Program  
 
8.   
 
 
Bachelor's  
 Agriculture and Environment 
Legislation  
and human rights   
 
 
Agriculture  9.  The foundations of generalization of 
the environment  
10.  Environmental Economics  
11.  The environment and natural 
resources  
12.  Ecology and physiology of insects  
96 
 13.  Pollution of the environment with 
pesticides  
14.  microorganism environment  
 
15.   
Master  Industrial  Medicine  & Occupational  
Diseases   
Medicine  
16.  Medical  Microbiology  & Immunology  
17.  Medical  Parasitology   
18.  Psychiatry  
19.  Medical  Pharmacology  
20.  Blood Transfusion  
 
21.  Bachelor's  
 Architecture & Urban Morphology  Faculty of Regional 
and Urban 
Planning  
 22.  Urban Conservation & Upgrading  
23.  Design of Urban Communities  
24.  Man and Environment  
25.  Introduction to Environmental 
Systems  
26.  Environmental Planning  
27.  Environmental Information Systems  
28.  Environmental Economics & Natural 
Resources  
29.  Environmental Geotechnical Analysis  
30.  Environment Surveys  
 
31.   Economics of Urban Management  
97 
 32.  Master  Sustainability and future cities  Faculty of Regional 
and Urban 
Planning  
 33.  Issues and urban development policies  
 
34.   
Ph.D.,  urban upgrading and conservation 
methods   
Faculty of Regional 
and Urban 
Planning  
 35.  introduction in environmental 
planning and natural resources 
management  
36.  urban upgrading and conservation 
issues  
37.  Environmental and infrastructure 
planning projects  
 
7.4. Total no. of research publication in last 3 years  
98 
  
 
7.5. Total research funds (in US Dollars)  
 
 
7.6. Total research funds dedicated to sustainability research (in US Dollars)  
13387138.6315322604.0117897107.21
02000000400000060000008000000100000001200000014000000160000001800000020000000
2019 2020 2021Total research fund in US Dollars
99 
  
 
7.7. Ration of Total sustainability research fund  towards Total research fund  (%) 
 
7.8. Research centers  and sustainability  
7.8.1. Center for Environmental Hazard Mitigation and Environmental 
Research  and Studies at Cairo University  
8029516.5311846920.814263022.32
0200000040000006000000800000010000000120000001400000016000000
2019 2020 2021Total sustainability research fund
59.9877.3279.69
0102030405060708090
2019 2020 2021Ration of Total sustainability research fund 
towards Total research fund (%)
100 
 Center for Environmental Hazard 
Mitigation and Environmental 
Research and Studies at Cairo 
University  (C.H.M.E.S.R.)  applying 
geographic information systems using 
the latest software systems and 
extrapolat e satellite images to create 
an optimal land use map.  The 
C.H.M.E.S.R. d etermin e the 
geotechnical and engineering 
characteristics of the foundation soil in 
construction sites and new cities in 
cooperation with the Ministry of 
Housing, Utilities and Urban 
Communities, the Ministry of 
Electricity and Energy, the Ministry of 
Tourism and the private sector.  The 
C.H.M.E.S.R. a ssesses the 
environmental impact of agricultural, 
industrial, urban and medical 
activities, and in landfill sites and 
petroleum activities.  The 
C.H.M.E.S.R. d eterm ines the seismic 
code and preparing seismic range 
maps for strategic construction sites  
and c arry out chemical analyzes and 
evaluating the effects of toxic and harmful elements to the environment 
in the field of industrial drainage,  
sewage and agricultural drainage, and 
air and soil pollutants.  Also the 
C.H.M.E.S.R. d eterm ines the levels of 
groundwater and the degree of its 
pollution and the sources of this 
pollution and its impact on 
construction activities and burial sites 
of hazar dous waste.  The C.H.M.E.S.R. 
aims to m easur e air pollutants for 
industrial facilities and petroleum 
activities sites using the latest devices 
in the mobile center laboratory.  In 
addition, the C.H.M.E.S.R. a ddress 
environmental problems in the areas of 
air and water pollution and hazardous 
waste disposal, as well as 
environmental impact assessment 
studies and basic geological and 
geophysical studies for future plans in 
urban, agricultural, tourism and 
industrial expansion.  The center also 
activat es the coope ration protocols 
between the Center and the Ministry of 
State for Environmental Affairs and 
the governorates of the Republic, the 
101 
 Ministry of Housing and Construction 
and the Petroleum Authority.  
 
7.8.2. Experimental wastewater treatment pl ant at Cairo University  
The experimental wastewater 
treatment plant at Cairo University 
designed by the university as part of a 
research project with a Japanese 
university to treat sewage water and convert it into potable water. It can 
also be  used in agriculture after the 
results of the final and official analyzes 
that confirmed the validity of the water 
for drinking.  

102 
  
7.8.3. The Development and Technological Planning Consultation and 
Research Center  
The Development and Technological 
Planning Consultation and Research 
Center was established in 1979, and is 
the first and largest center of its kind at 
Cairo University and Egyptian 
universities. This is through the 
"Technological Development 
Program" for research cooperation 
between the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology in the United States and 
Cairo University, with the support of 
USAID in Cairo. The main objective 
of this program was to conduct 14 national research projects in which 
Cairo University and the 
Massachusetts Institute participate in 
addition to the concerned Egyptian 
ministries. It aims to analyze, plan and 
manage important development 
programs in Egypt with a broader goal 
of forming an institutional framework 
for this program through the  
establishment of an independent 
research center dedicated to this 
purpose. Cairo University under the 
name of "Development Consulting and 

103 
 Research Center and Technological 
Planning".  
 
7.8.4. Scientific Computation Center - Cairo University  
Scientific Computation Center - Cairo 
University is specialized in large -scale 
national projects characterized by 
modern management requirement of 
precise data collection and cadres 
training to enhance benefiting from 
material and human poten tials 
contributing thus to facilitating 
differentiation from among best 
available alternative, besides helping 
in expediting proper decisions for decision  makers. S.C.C is specialized 
more over in implementing 
information systems plans, offering 
consultat ive services and training of all 
faculties of Cairo University, external 
bodies and individual in computer and 
info technology engineering. It 
conduits especially the following 
researches and studies for improving 
efficiency of scientific computation 
and e lectronic computers.  

104 
 7.8.5. Science Heritage Center  
In the end of the year 1996, the board of Cairo University, under the presidency of 
Professor Mofid Shehab, decided to establish a center for the history of Science 
named as "Science Heritage Center" in the Faculty of Science.  
In spite of the interest in history that is characteristic of Egypt, teaching history of 
science is not included in the University and general education curricula. So, the 
Science Heritage Center represents the first step for the initiation and revival of the 
scientific history and achievements in the ancient Egyptian and Islamic era .
The Science Heritage Center is 
devoted to the study of the history of 
science. The process of scientific 
thinking and acquisition of knowledge 
acquisition and their interrelations 
with cultural, technical, and social 
contexts will be central points for investigation. Even though, natural 
science might be considered the 
principal objective of resear ch and 
studies at the center, the 
methodologies applied are rooted in 
the humanities, and in particular in 
studies of human culture.  

105 
  
  
  
7.9. Events related to sustainability  
 
Sustainability day  27/10/2021  
 
 
  
 

106 
  Sustainability competition                                                                      Y our health week guys  
 
Environmental Awareness Week         
 Drinking water seminars between 
pollution and poisoning  
 
 
 
  

107 
 Steroids and youth, causes and risks                                                
 World Environment and Green Economy 
Day 
 
Cycling marathon  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

108 
 Celebration of the World Mental Health Day and in line with the efforts of Cairo University 
for sustainable development  
 
                   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Today’s 
session 10/18 on sustainable development 
and waste recycling to produce 
educational aids for children Presenter of 
the symposium Prof. Dr. Samah Abdel 
Fattah Marzouk. The symposium included 
two topics  1- Sustainable 
development and how to conserve natural 
resources and rationalize consumption  
2- Recycling waste to produce educational 
aids for the child  
  

109 
 "Get Green" Initiative  
It aims to change behaviors, spread environmental awareness, and urge citizens, especially 
young people, to participate in preserving the environment and natural resources to ensure 
their sustainability in order to preserve the rights of future generations . 
The initiative also aims to spread 
awareness of the preservation and 
management of natural reserves according 
to international standards, in order to 
ensure the preservation of the balance of 
ecosystems and to maximize opportunities 
for economic and soc ial development.  
  
 
The initiative launched by the Ministry of Environment raises awareness of the importance 
of afforestation, recycling of waste, rationalizing food and energy consumption, reducing the 
use of plastic, preserving marine  creatures, reducing air pollution, and protecting nature 
reserves.  
 
 
 
 

110 
 7.10. Examples of Cairo University sustainability competition posters.  
7.11. Student organizations related to sustainability  
MSP Tech Club is a student activity 
organized by Microsoft student 
partners under the supervision of 
Microsoft, aiming to increase the knowledge of students by providing 
them with the essential training and the 
interpersonal skills.  
 

111 
 Cairo University Entrepreneurship Club  
 
1.  Literary club Faculty of arts  
2.  Committee of Art and Culture Outreach - Faculty of Law Students  
3.  Outreach and Volunteer Faculty of Science  
4.  Families Committee in all 28 faculties  
5.  Sports Activity Committee in all 28 faculties  
6.  Committee for cultural and media activity in all 28 faculties  
7.  Technical Activities Committee in all 28 faculties  
8.  Mobile and Public Service Committee in all 28 faculties  
9.  Social Activities Committee in all 28 faculties  
10.  Scientific and Technological Activities Committee in all 28 
faculties  
 
7.12. Cultural activities on campus  
Educational seminars for your health guys  
  

112 
 Violence against Woman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heritage Week Seminars  
 
 
 

113 
 Egyptian epic symposium  
 
Turkish University concert  
 
7.13. Sustainability community services project organized and/or involving 
students  
1. Small and medium enterprise project  
 
 
 
 
 
 

114 
 2. Entrepreneurship, stock market and money market project  
 
3. Digital Mechanization Model Project  
 
 

115 
 4. Project of the full vision model to clarify the requirements of the labor 
market from all directions  
 
7.14. U niversity program(s) to cope with Covid -19 pandemic  
Cairo University has developed a 
comprehensive plan to manage the 
educational process since the 
beginning of the Corona virus crisis 
and for any possible scenario, by 
defining ways to ensure the safety and 
health of the university’s members, 
including students, members of the 
teaching body and workers, by 
periodically equipping and sterilizing 
laboratories and terraces, in addition to 
activating the plan to transform the 
university into a smart university from the third generation and the provision 
of educational services electronically . 
 
 

116 
 First: Providing electronic pl atforms and clarifyi ng them for the teaching staff:
Supporting colleges to switch to e -
education and distance study using 
global programs and applications for 
distance education by uploading 
courses and questions for each college 
electronically on the university’s 
website and college websites, and 
making them available to students at 
the bachelor’s and bachelor’s levels, 
whether in terms of two semesters or 
credit hours, through Word files And 
PowerPoint, PDF, and video, and the 
disbursement of rewards to faculty 
members and technical cadres for 
contributing to the creation of 
electronic courses.  
 With the onset of the crisis, a 
workshop was held at the Knowledge 
and Electronic Services Center, for all 
faculties coordinators to train them on 
methods of d istance study, develop 
methods of teaching courses, and 
discuss the problems that students may 
face in browsing the Internet, and CDs 
were provided on them with weekly 
lectures for each course with the 
availability of The possibility of 
receiving it from c olleges or sending 
content to students through e -mail.  
 
 
 
  

117 
 Second: In the event those students have to attend some practical practices 
that could not be taught through electronic platforms : 
In the event that students had to attend 
some practical practices that could not 
be taught through electronic platforms: 
the university prevented overcrowding and increased the number of hours in 
the working day to be from 9 am to 9 
pm. to come on time . 
 
Third: Procedures for cafeterias and food inside the university  
Due to what the country is going through from the new Corona pandemic, His 
Excellency Mr. Prof. Dr. President of Cairo University emphasizing the following: - 
 
 

118 
 1. Preventing overcrowding in cafeterias  
2. Observe the distance between individuals  
3. Take into account the use of single -use cups.  
4. Washing and sterilizing hands for all employees who are responsible for 
preparing food.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth: Procedures for incoming students and travelers to and from abroad  
The university cities received 16 
regiments, which included 2,922 
Egyptians returning from the State of 
Kuwait, to spend the period of 
precautionary sanitary isolation, which 
contributes to emphasizing  the role of 
the Egyptian state in caring for its 
children and providing all their needs 
for free, in addition to hosting 531 
male and female students from 6 
different nationalities.   
 

119 
   
Cairo University has succeeded 
During the period of receiving the 
Egyptian groups returning from abroad 
and the residence of the foreign 
students, in the preparation of 
collecting the necessary equipment 
inside the university dormitories to provide safe an d sterile 
accommodation and provide full 
medical care, as an integrated clinic 
operating around the clock, a 
pharmacy, an equipped ambulance, 
and first aid kits were provided, With 
the provision of full 
support from the central medical 
administration of t he university and 
university hospitals, the consequences 
of the health status of the residents and 
hosting some of them for treatment in 
the university hospitals. The university 
has hired additional companies for 
cleaning works in the University City 
to co nduct continuous cleaning and 
disinfection of rooms and buildings, 
while providing large quantities of hand sanitizers and liquid soap, and 
distributing masks and gloves. The 
restaurants of the University City and 
the guest house provided meals in 
addition  to the use of external 
restaurants, and TV screens and 
shower dishes were installed in the 
rooms.  The rooms designated for 
isolation in order to provide the best 
service and requested all precautions.  
 
 
 

120 
 Fifth: Procedures for student event s and activities  
Cairo University has succeeded in 
implementing the largest plan for 
student activities through electronic 
platforms, by launching cultural, 
artistic and scientific competitions, with the aim of motivating students 
and supporti ng the spirit of 
competition among them. Some events 
were also hosted, taking into account 
the precautionary measures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sixth : Procedures for handling suspected cases  
Cairo University issued a guide 
explaining the rules and guidelines for 
home isolation for cases that suffer 
from simple symptoms of infection 
with the virus instead of transferring 
them to isolation hospitals, with the aim of educating students, workers a nd 
faculty members, and introducing the 
scientific rules of isolation and 
removing fear and ambiguity.  
 

121 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seventh: Procedures for following up on the implementation of precautionary and 
preventive measures  
His Excellency  Prof. Dr. Muhammad Al -Khasht directed him to follow up on the 
implementation of the precautionary and preventive measures as follows:  
 Assigning the team of the Supreme Committee for Crisis Management in 
coordination with the General Department of Preventive Affairs  
 To follow up on the implementation of precautionary measures.  
 Control and control teams have been formed.  
 Contact persons have been identified for each college.  
 The degree of readiness of Al -Qasr Al -Aini Hospital has been raised to recei ve 
suspected cases of corona.  
  

122 
 8- Events and competitions  
Cairo University celebrated the international day of sustainability by several ways, among 
it celebration among all faculties  
 
  

123 
              
 
International sustainability day celebration by faculty of science  
  

124 
  
 
 
First experimental use of can bank, faculty of science  
 

125 
 8.2- Cairo University win first place among all universities in field as best eco -
friendly university  
 
 

126 
 8.3 Cooperation with international agencies and universities  
Interna tional birds cooperation partnership presented a lecture about birds bio - conservation 
at Cairo University’s sustainability day by President, International Bird Conservation 
Partnership , Nico Arcilla, PhD , Affiliate Fellow, University of Nebraska, USA  
 
 
  

127 
 8.4 Sustainability office conducted Awareness lectures  at National Cancer Institute  
 
 
 
 
 

128 
 8.5 Sustainability office conducted Awareness lectures  in cooperation with 
institutional animal care and use committee  
 

129 
  
       
  

130 
 8.6 Sustainability office, Cairo University announced competition titled Cairo 
University and sustainability goals  
 
 
 

131 
 The contribution of all faculties was as follows  
 
  0510152025عدد المشاركات
132 
 The winning posters were  
 
The winning photographs and drawing were  
 

