The purpose of the Office of Institutional Research and Planning (IRP) is to support and sustain institution-wide continuous improvement efforts at Canadian University Dubai. This is accomplished by using relevant, up-to-date information to support assessments, decision making and policy formation.
IRP supports business sustainability through continuous improvement of the University’s internal processes, via comprehensive and integrated Strategic and Performance Management methodologies targeted at Students and Academic Programs, Employee and Financial outcomes.
Vision & Mission
VISION: To be a reliable strategic partner that provides institutional data, information and knowledge to drive quality assurance and promote performance driven learning and services for the advancement of the University.
MISSION: To ensure accurate, useful information and the availability of the appropriate tools for institutional planning, decision making, academic assessment and operational improvement; and to coordinate these services in an objective, systematic, thorough and transparent manner, in direct support of the Canadian University Dubai Strategic Plan.
The key Behaviors of IRP that supports CUD’s core values (PRIDE) are:
Ethical: We are principled in delivering our services with full transparency and commitment.
Strategic: We will ensure clear lines of sight towards the University’s strategic direction in implementing our action plan.
Quality: We provide secured reliable data, analysis, and information for reporting, planning, and decision making.
Efficient: We use our resources wisely.
Functions
To facilitate Canadian University Dubai strategic planning and performance monitoring, focusing on the alignment towards the vision, mission and strategic goals.
To facilitate all aspects related to accreditation including standards compliance, applications, reviews and self-evaluation documents related to the CAA.
To manage all institutional surveys and evaluation and close the loop to provide information and measure the impact of the related performance gaps.
To conduct research and benchmarking to ensure state-of-the-art knowledge acquisition, application and preservation.
The goal of the institutional effectiveness program at Canadian University Dubai is to ensure that the strategy is being developed and managed via SMART measures of academic, service, and administrative units in a consistent and transparent manner.
The Office is itself a service office with the mandate to help administrators design, conduct, analyze, and ultimately direct planning through these assessment activities. ‘Closing the loop’, whereby evaluative findings are incorporated into the planning processes, is the ultimate goal of any assessment activity at a university and is essential for the continued improvement of services and academic quality at Canadian University Dubai.
Our Vision
Canadian University Dubai is committed to providing students with an international academic experience, guided by the highest educational and corporate ethics, adding value to the personal and professional lives of its graduates, and the communities in which we serve.
Our Mission
Canadian University Dubai promotes Canadian perspectives in learning, research and application, grounded in an appreciation and respect for the diverse culture and values of the UAE.
Core Values (PRIDE)
CUD has adopted a set of core values that aim at supporting the Vision and the Mission of the University. These core values are termed as “PRIDE” which are the fundamental elements that drive CUD organizational culture and operations.
P People:
“People are our Greatest Asset” recognizes the essential importance of people: students, faculty, and support staff, and their contribution to the success of our mission. We strive to ensure the CUD community embraces our values in their day-to-day interactions.
R Respect:
We value all individuals and strive to maintain an environment built on mutual trust, openness and personal dignity.
I Integrity:
We are committed to creating an academic environment built on honesty, abiding by all legal and ethical standards, thereby earning and maintaining the trust and respect of our stakeholders and community.
D Diversity:
We strive to build a community that celebrates diversity, strengthening the educational environment, and preparing our students and employees to be global citizens.
E Excellence:
We are committed to achieving high academic standards and professional services. We strive to support personal growth and intellectual advancement of our students and employees.
Goals and Objectives
Goal 1:
To create and maintain an environment conducive to continual learning and improvement, while continuously evaluating all aspects of CUD operations to ensure relevance, excellence and growth.
Objectives::
1.1 To provide opportunities for students to enhance their classroom experience through the use of multi-media and online resources.
1.2Through the Office of Institutional Research and Planning, continuously evaluating our performance as a teaching and research organization, for the satisfaction of students, staff, and all external stakeholders.
1.3To use systematic evidenced-based planning for the development of the University, both operationally and strategically.
1.4To continue to grow the base of programs and student numbers, to fulfil the mission and deliver the Strategic Plan of the University.
Goal 2:
To encourage the enthusiasm and celebrate the contribution of staff and students, and to support the ambitions of all, by providing them with academic excellence and the empirical experience required for career success.
Objectives:
2.1 To deliver excellence in teaching, measured by student evaluation and the applicable external entities
2.2 To provide opportunities for student job placements, projects, and internship.
2.3 To engage government and private sectors, and non-profit organizations, within the region, in the University initiatives for the advancement of all involved.
2.3 To provide opportunities of professional development for faculty and staff to enhance their knowledge, skills, and aptitude for their career progression.
Goal 3:
To generate an atmosphere with the established international ethical freedom of teaching and research, while fostering scholarly debate and mutual respect.
Objectives:
3.1 To develop a focused Research Center, which conducts research and engages students and faculty in the pursuit of scholarly activity.
3.2 To hold periodic open and public lectures to encourage debate grounded in academic rigor on issues of concern.
3.3 To develop, with students and staff, a code of conduct that is honored and respected.
Goal 4:
To hold accountability and value the input of all stakeholders in developing and maintaining CUD’s portal to Canadian education, making CUD a University of Choice and an Employer of Choice.
Objectives:
4.1 To have a clear strategy for collaboration and co-operation with Canadian post-secondary educational institutions and to develop collaborative agreements, to be a coast-to-coast Canadian portal to education.
4.2 To systematically collect data from stakeholders, internal and external, concerning the performance of the University, its strategic brand position and its opportunities for growth.
Goal 5:
To account for the needs of all internal and external stakeholders, by securing sufficient and relevant resources, for the achievement of the goals and operational objectives.
Objectives:
5.1 To undertake systematic resource planning for the university operations, to fulfill CUD’s mission and vision.
5.2 To maintain our status as a self-funded institution, while using new investments for expansion and development.
