University Strategy 2019-2 8
Executive Summary 
Reflecting on our pr ogress so far 
The U niversity of E ssex i s equally co mmitt ed to excellence in education and research, for 
the benefit o f individuals,  communities and society. We a re proud to offer a transformational 
research -led education, welcoming students to t he University on the basis o f their pot ential, 
helping t hem t o fulfil that potential, an d transforming the l ives of ev eryone who chooses t o 
study at E ssex.  
The 2013- 19 strategic  plan period was a period of ou tstanding achievements for t he 
University. Under th e 2013- 19 plan , the Un iversity went from strength t o strength. We se t 
ourselves  some am bitious ch allenges: to ach ieve excellence  in education and research, and 
to be r ecognised as a U K top 25 University, w hile growing ou r student nu mbers by 50%; to 
improve our financial su stainability, generating an annual ca sh surplus o f at least 5.5% while 
significantly growing ou r academic s taff b ase and developing our ca mpuses.  And, w ith every  
fresh  challenge t hat faces H igher E ducation, to s eek out oppor tunities for the University o f 
Essex t o grow, t o thriv e and to adv ance our m ission of ex cellence in education and 
research, for t he bene fit of i ndividuals and communities.  
Highlights o f our ach ievements since 2013 i nclude: 
1.W
e’re part of an elite group of dual intensive universities recognised for excellence i n
educ
ation (Gold Award, TEF 2017) and excellence in research (top 20 in REF 2014).
2.We have successfully grown the University, attracting students from around the worl d
t
o join our community and benefit from our distinctive Essex education. In 2018 mor e
t
han 5,000 students came from outside the UK to study at Essex from 150 different
countries, making us the most international mainstream university in the UK outsi de
London (
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2018). We are rank ed
14t
h in the world – and 2nd in the UK – for international outlook in the Times Higher
Education World University Rankings 2019.
3.We’re recognised internationally for our globally important research with peaks of
excellence in social sciences, human rights and data analytics. We were awarded t he
U
K’s first Regius Professorship of Political Science, Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for
Human Rights and Social Sciences, and the world’s first UNESCO Chair in Analytics
and Data Science.
4.We’re in the top 30 of all UK universities thanks to the outstanding student
experience we offer, strong graduate prospects, and world- leading research (The
Times and Sunday Times Good Universit y Guide 2019).
5.We are top 15 amongst mainstream English universities for overall student
satisfaction (National Student Survey 2018).
6.We contribute more than £500m every year to the national and regional economy –according to our Economic Impact report
.
7.Our Knowledge Gateway  technology and research park is becoming the location of
choice for intelligent businesses who want to link up with our research expertise,graduate and student talent, and benefit from our campus services and business
support capabilities. Our Parkside Office Village is fully let and we are top 5 in the UK
for our technology -driven business partners hips (KTPs).
8.In 2018 we were awarded the prestigious Times Higher Education (THE) award of
University of the Year. The award citation recognised our commitment to putting
student and staff success at the centre of everything we do, with tremendous effect.
The citation read:
“What are Universities if not communities of talented, committed people. By putting these people – both staff and students – first, the University of Essex has every right to its claim to 
be a ‘home f or staff and students w ho want to ma ke the w orld a better pl ace. It i s also our 
University of the Year.” 
Looking ahead to 2028  
As w e embark on our ne xt strategic  plan period, we are looking t o the future with confidence, 
optimism  and conviction.  
•T
he mission and purpose of the University is clear and unchanged: we are committ ed
t
o excellence in education and research for the benefit of individuals  and
c
ommunities.
•The distinctive character of the University of Essex is clear and unchanged: we ar e
“f
reer, more daring, more experimental”;  tenacious, bold, inquisitive, and impatient for
change. Our Essex Spirit is nurtured by our global community and outlook, enabl ed
t
hrough our culture of belonging and membership and powered by our researc h
m
ind-set.
•We are clear about what we stand for: transformational education and research,
inclusion, academic freedom, partnerships based on shared values, and t he
c
ommitment to make a difference in the world by putting ideas into action to creat e
bene
fit for other s.
What’s  new in our proposed University Strategy 2019-2 8? 
1.B
uilding on our commitment to be firmly established in the top 25 of the TGUG (KPI 1), w e
hav
e set ourselves a new challenge: to be globally recognised as one of the world’s t op 200
Un
iversities (KPI 2).
2.B
uilding on our commitments to transformational education and inclusion, we have re-
focused on consistency in the range and quality of learning opportunities for every student,responsive to our students’ needs  and aspirations . This is reflected in our emphasis on
supporting every student, from every background, to achieve outstanding outcomes. In
addition to consistent excellence at subject level (KPI1 – TGUG; KPI3 – TEF) we hav
e
added a new
 challenge in KPI 6 (no attainment gaps for measures of student success).
3.W
e have articulated more strongly and clearly the purpose of our commitment t o
ex
cellence in education and research: to improve the lives of people and communities. This
builds on the commitments of our staff and students to advocacy, activism, social
entrepreneurship and service to our communities, and is reflected in our focus on social
action as the defining characteristic of Essex education and research.
4.W
e have re -framed our priorities to reflect our commitme nt to putting people (staff and
students) at the centre of everything we do. This reflects our values of inclusion, partnershi p
and c
ommunity. We recognise the contributions that every member of our community makes
to realising our vision and ambitions. We  are a people- centred organisation: our priorities
and objectives seek to realise the full potential of every member of our community i n
c
ontributing to transformational education and research. Our priorities are based on the
process through which we create benefit: our people (priority 1) create and apply knowledg e
(
priority 2) to generate benefit for our community of students and staff and for t he
c
ommunities who benefit from our education and research (priority 3).
5.W
e will aim to grow the University  to a community of about 20,000 students and 1,000
researchers, including two new departments or disciplines to meet the needs of our time.This will generate the resources to realise our ambitions for world- class transformational
education and research, and to ensure the financial sustainability of the University.
University Strategy, 2019-2 8 
Our m ission  
Excellence in education and research, for the benefit of individuals and communities 
Our vision for 2028 
We will put student succes s at the heart of our mission, supporting every student from every 
background to achieve outstanding outcomes; preparing our students to thrive in their future 
lives and nurturing our community of educators to support and promote student success . 
Our r esearch w ill continue to focus on as king di fficult questions, c hallenging conventional 
wisdom, t ackling wit h rigour t he questions t hat matter f or peopl e and communities and 
putting ideas into action to improve people’s lives.  
In 2028 we will be recognised nationally  (top 25 Times Good Univers ity Guide) and globally 
(top 200 Times H igher E ducati on World Rankings) fo r the quality and impact o f our 
transformational educa tion and for t he international ex cellence and world- leading q uality, 
scale and impact o f our r esearch .  
We w ill nur ture and ce lebrate our sh ared co mmitment t o social action, s upporting ev ery 
person in our U niversity community t o realise t he potential o f their E ssex S pirit t hroug h their 
contribution t o our sh ared mis sion. 
We w ill have g rown the University, enabl ing us to offer t ransformational e ducation to abou t 
20,000 students, t o ach ieve transformational r esearc h through a c ommunity of abou t 1,000 
researchers, t o extend the knowledge base by i nvesting in new di sciplines t hat m eet the 
needs o f our t ime and t o ensur e the financial su stainability of t he U niversity. 
Our P riorities 
1. Peopl
e
2. Kno
wledge
3. Com
munities
Priority 1: P eople 
Our pur pose, a s set out in the U niversity C harter, is “to adva nce educa tion, sc holarship, 
knowledge and understanding by t eaching and research, f or the benef it of individuals and 
society a t large”. Our first p riority i s to inspire, e mpower and support al l students and s taff 
across academic departments and professional services sec tions to fulfil their potential in 
contributing to the University’s vision and ambitions for 2019-2 8.  
‘We looke d for peopl e who would w ork together, and who were in sympathy wit h the 
University p rogramme a nd determi ned to se e it through.’ (Albert S loman, Reith Lectures)  
Our ability to improve people’s lives through excellence in educ ation and research is built on 
the talents  and capabilities of our people. In the period 2019-2 8, we will recruit students and 
staff w ho are co mmitt ed to contributing to our m ission of ex cellence  in education and 
research  for the benefit o f peopl e and co mmunities.  Our first  priority  will be to dev elop and 
enable every st udent an d every st aff member t o realise t he full pot ential o f their E ssex S pirit. 
1.1 Supporting and celebrating st udent success 
1.1.1 Supporting s tudents to achieve success  is at the heart o f our m ission. Our st udents 
are a diverse community of committed, engaged learners. We are committed to 
supporting every student to realise their personal ambitions, transform their lives and 
use their Essex education for the benefit of people and communities. Our students are active members of our University communities, taking responsibility for their own 
learning and helping to shape our living and learning communities, in partnership with 
each other and with staff who are responsive to their needs  and aspirations . 
1.
1.2 Student success will remain at the heart of our mission, as we support our students to discover and define their own ‘Essex Spirit’ within our living and learning community, supported by committed partnerships between the University, the 
Students’ Union and external partner organisations.  
1.1.3  Essex graduates are members of the University for life. We cherish and celebrate the impact of our graduates and their Essex Spirit on our global  community. We welcome 
the contributions that our graduates make to shaping the life and future of the 
University, supporting the advancement of University and helping current and future 
generations of Essex students to realise their full potential and fulfil their own Essex 
Spirit.  
1.
2 Supporting and celebrating people for their contributions to transformational 
education  
1.
2.1 Our commitment to transformational education for every student, regardless of 
background, is realised through the care, skill and commitment of our community of 
talented people. Our people are dedicated to student success, recognise the power 
of transformational education, view talent as a starting point for future potential, value 
inclusion and are responsive to the needs and aspirations of our diverse student 
population.  
1.2.2  Every member of Essex staff contributes to our mission of excellence in education, through their contributions to student learning, student experience and by creating 
and sustaining the environments in which transformational education flourishes. Our 
staff will be supported to develop and apply their skills, professional knowledge and expertise to educate and enable every student to realise their full potential, and to 
nurture and sustain the environments that enable transformational education.  
1.2.3  Through collaborative networks and communities of staff and students, we will support our staff to work together across departments and sections, and - with our 
students and external partners - to ensure that an Essex education m eets our 
students’ needs  and aspirations,  prepar ing them for their future lives, future careers 
and future learning.  
1.
3 Supporting and celebrating people for their contributions to transformational 
research 
1.
3.1 Our commitment to transformational research is realised through the care, skill and commitment of our community of talented people. Our staff and students are 
dedicated to asking difficult questions, challenging received wisdom, conducting 
ambitious, innovative and significant research that addresses contemporary and 
emerging challenges, and applying knowledge and ideas for the benefit of individuals, communities and society.  
1.3.2  Every member of our community contributes to our mission of excellence in research, through the creation, application and communication of knowledge, ideas and 
innovations and by creating and sustaining the environments in which 
transformational research flourishes.  
1.3.3  Our people will be equipped with the capabilities to realise their own Essex Spirit as active, empathetic, entrepreneurial and engaged global citizens. Our staff will be supported to develop and apply their skills, professional knowledge and expertise, to 
realise their full potential as researchers and to nurture the environments that enable 
transformational research. Th rough collaborative networks and communities of staff, 
students and partners, we will support research at the growing points of knowledge, meet the needs of our time, and harness our collective power as a community that drives innovation, creativity and enterprise internationally, nationally and in our 
region.  
1.
4 Supporting and celebrating the contributions of all staff to our shared mission 
1.
4.1 At Essex, we value the contribution that every member of staff makes to our University mission. We recognise the importance of meaningful relationships and 
partnerships across the University in realising our shared endeavour, and the role of 
staff voices in helping to shape our living and learning communities.  
1.4.2  As a learning organisation, we value and support the ongoing development of professional knowledge, expertise and skills. We are committed to a culture of 
collaboration, agility and team -work, sharing good practices, promoting learning and 
skills across de partments and sections and working across disciplines and functions 
to produce outstanding outcomes.  
1.4.3  We will work in partnership across the University’s communities to nurture the 
environments that support transformational education and research, enabling and 
recognising the contributions of all staff to our shared mission. We will promote our commitment to education and research through the value we place on learning within 
and across teams, and on evidence and data -led decision making, in academic 
depart ments and professional services. We never stop learning and this commitment 
shapes our relationships with each other and with our partners.    
P
riority 2: Knowledge 
T
he purpose of the University, as defined in our University Charter, is ‘the advancement  of 
learning and knowledge by teaching and research and for enabling students to obtain the 
advantages of University education.’ Our mission of excellence in education and research is built on the creation, communication, transfer and application of knowledge, ideas and 
innovation, in our curricula, in our research and in our ways of working, within and across our 
campus communities and with our global, national and regional partners.  
2.
1 Transformational curricula  
2.
1.1 Our research -led curricula will induct our students into our communities of academic 
and professional practice through disciplinary and interdisciplinary knowledge, ideas, 
practices and techniques.  
2.1.2  We will work in partnership with our students to ensure that our curricula meet their needs  and aspi rations , to create opportunities for students to develop their Essex 
education and to ensure that every student is supported to acquire the skills and capabilities to put ideas into action, to benefit people and communities . Every 
programme will offer stud ents opportunities to work across disciplinary and skill 
boundaries, to shape their learning and to develop the skills and practices that support social action.  
2.1.3  We will continue to nurture our global mind- set, collaborating with international 
partners to develop innovative programmes of study, learning from international 
innovations and experiences and providing opportunities for our students and staff to 
benefit from our global outlook.  
2.
2 Transformational research 
2.
2.1 Our Essex Spirit compels us to ask challenging questions, applying disciplinary and interdisciplinary ideas and knowledge and negotiating the spaces between 
boundaries to pursue creative and radical innovation and address emerging 
challenges.  
2.2.2  Our research will meet the challenges of our time, addressing problems of global 
importance to shape and influence disciplinary and interdisciplinary thinking. We will 
draw on and extend our distinctive discipline mix to maximise the transformational 
potential of our research capabilities. We will champion collaboration, within and 
across disciplines and between academic and non- academic communities.   
2.2.3  Our researchers will define the next generation of research challenges, set agendas for addressing enduring and emerging challenges, lead the advancement of 
knowledge and develop innovative applications of knowledge and ideas for the 
benefit of people and communities.  
2.
3 Transformational innovation and enterprise  
2.
3.1 Our Essex Spirit is founded on a commitment to ‘radical innovation’ , to be ‘ freer, 
more daring, more experimental’ in meeting the challenges and needs of each 
generation, including the needs of industry. Inspired by our inquisitive and ambitious Essex Spirit, our students and staff will collaborate with and be responsive to the needs of industry, enterprise and employers, aligning our students’ learning and 
experiences with current, emerging and future needs and opportunities and sharing 
the benefits of our transformational research and education with communities beyond 
our campuses.  
2.3.2  As an innovation and enterprise ecosystem, our Knowledge Gateway offers a unique opportunity to benefit people and communities through entrepreneurship and 
enterprise. We will continue to develop the Knowledge Gateway to enable easy access to the knowledge base, talent pipeline and research and development 
expertise of the University.  
2.3.3  Partnerships between our tenants, researchers, educators and students across the University’s disciplines and departments will enable us to support social, commercial 
and cultural entrepreneurship, to engage our local and regional communities in the research and education mission of the University, to share our facilities and to 
collaborate on programmes of innovation and enterprise that benefit people and 
communities, globally, nationally and regionally.  
2.
4 Transformational environments  
2.4.
1 Our success in realising our ambitions for transformational education and research is 
rooted in the environments in which we live, learn and work, and powered and 
enabled by the services we deliver for the University community.  
2.4.2  We will develop creative and scalable, streamlined and efficient, intelligent and 
supportive services, to meet the needs of a community of around 20,000 students 
and 1,000 res earchers in 2028. This  will be achieved through creative 
partnerships  across our sections and departments and with our students. We will 
be agile in seek ing out opportunities to innovate, to harness the power of new 
ideas and knowledge and to identify the most effective ways of realising our 
ambitions.  2.
4.3 People are at the heart of our services: our dedicated and professional teams will 
identify, develop, implement, refine and deliver highly -functioning services and 
systems that meet the needs of staff and students by creating the environments in which transformational education and research can flourish.      
Prior
ity 3: Communities 
The
 purpose of our mission of excellence in education and research is to improve people’s 
lives, transform communities and benefit society. Serving our communities through 
transformational education and research that meets the needs of our time remains at the 
heart of our mission.  
As
 we grow, we will extend the scale, global reach and impact of our education and 
research. On our campuses, “ bigness will be reconciled with intimacy ”, by ensuring that our 
campus communities foster our sense of belonging, well- being, inclusion and purpose, our 
connections with each other and with our global and regional partners. And we will maximise 
the impact of the University on communities beyond our campuses.  
Our
 Essex Spirit is driven by our ambition to achieve meaningful impact of global 
significance, and to realise the benefits of a world- class university for our region. We will 
achieve this by encouraging and supporting our students, staff, alumni and partners in collective action that creates benefit for people and communities around the world.  
3.1 N
urturing our living and learning communities 
3.1.
1 Albert Sloman said, “ A university should, I believe, provide an experience of living as 
well as an opportunity for learning.”  We will work in partnership with our students and 
the Students’ Union to create living and learning communities, both campus -based 
and communities of interest, shaped around our students’ needs, ambitions and ideas.  
3.1.2  We will provide a transformational student experience by scaling the range of opportunities for students to apply their learning, to discover their Essex Spirit and to 
develop and practice the capabilities to put their ideas into action for the benefit of 
people and communities.  
3.1.3  We will celebrate the diversity of our students and staff, nurturing communities of 
belonging in which all are accepted without exception, and promoting inclusion, well -
being, resilience and empowerment to enable every member of the University to achieve their full potential.  
3.2 E
nabling communities for transformational education and research  
3.2.
1 Our campuses provide the physical and digital, social and natural environments for our community of staff and students to connect, collaborate, test and exchange the 
knowledge and ideas that drive transformational research and education.  
3.2.2  As we grow our community of staff and students, we will nurture, develop and grow 
our campus communities. Investment to grow our academic staff will aim to reduce 
student -staff ratios, and investment in our campuses will ensure that we provide a 
transformational environment for education and research, equipped with physical and digital infrastructure, facilities, workspaces, learning spaces, shared spaces and 
environments aligned to our ambitions and priorities.  
3.2.3  Our campus environments will nurture our sense of community and belonging, 
providing safe and effective social environments, where positive relationships 
promote well -being for all. Economies of scale in the delivery of our work will enable 
us to offer an outstanding experience to our students and staff.  
3.
3 The impact of our Essex Spirit  
3.
3.1 We will nurture and promote our impact, reputation and standing, to ensure that the 
University of Essex is recognised globally and nationally for the quality, profile and 
visibility of our transformational research and education and for the benefit we create 
for people and communities.  
3.3.2  We will lead research programmes of global and national importance, harnessing the 
knowledge base of the University to make the world a better place. We will  support 
our students and graduates to apply their Essex Spirit for the benefit of people and communities. We will celebrate the successes of our alumni, their global impact, and 
the inspiration they give to our current and future students.    
3.3.3  Albert Sloman said: “ A great University has a lot to give to its community. ” We will 
work closely with people and organisations who share our values to maximise our impact as a world- class University committed to creating global and local benefit. We 
will work with strategic partners in schools, businesses, industry, cultural organisations, local authorities and public services to advance the quality, profile and 
visibility of our transformative research and research- led education, and to ensure 
that the work of the University has a positive impact in the world around us.  
Objectives 
P
eople 
O
1.1 Offer every student a transformational education, empowering them to discover and 
develop their own Essex Spirit, to achieve their potential, to improve their own lives and, 
through social and community engagement and action, to find solutions to societal and 
environmental problems for the benefit of people and communities.  
O
1.2 Seek out input and ideas from our students to enable them, in partnership with staff 
who are responsive to their needs  and aspirations, to help shape our living and learning 
communities and contribute to the University’s decision making processes.  
O
1.3 Recognise and celebrate the contributions of every member of staff to the achievement 
of transformational education and research and to sustaining the environments in which these can flourish.  
O
1.4 Promote and facilitate formal and informal learning across all sections and departments 
of the University, and support all colleagues in their roles as educators working within and 
across teams.  
O
1.5 Nurture and promote our commitment to research- led education and the development 
of a research mind- set for undergraduate and postgraduate students, for staff researchers 
and through our practices of research and data- informed decision- making across a ll 
departments and sections of the University.  
O
1.6 Ensure that every member of staff is supported, through induction and ongoing 
professional development, to be inspirational, inclusive and innovative, to define their own 
professional paths, plan their career goals, identify and address learning needs  and 
opportunities , build and develop skills and knowledge, maintain rigorous professional 
standards, navigate moments of transition and share good practice across the University.  
O
1.7 Listen to, support and develop each other, responding to employee voices, building our 
staff community through practices of coaching and mentoring, recognising the connection 
between rest, creativity and wellbeing and helping our community to manage their physical 
and mental wellbeing through healthy working lifestyles.  
O
1.8 Support an inclusive working environment which recognises and harnesses the 
contribution of every member of the University, through inclusive policies and processes that 
put people at the centre and also by our behaviours, which will promote an environment 
where people learn from others and are supported through effective processes and 
partnership to take decisions on behalf of the organisation. 
O
1.9 Establish a flexible, digitally fluent working culture which leads to self -managed time 
with a focus on outcomes over input, fluid boundaries between teams and a culture of 
collaborative problem solving.  
O
1.10 Support our graduates to realise their personal ambitions, supporting them through 
the multiple trans itions of their future careers, future learning and future lives and celebrating 
the impact of their Essex Spirit through agency, activism, advocacy, entrepreneurship, service to our communities and their commitment to social action. 
Knowledge 
O2.1 S upport staff and students t o co-produce  relevant, r esponsive and inclusiv e curricula 
that o ffer a diverse  range o f learning opportunities and that ar e agile, responsive to current 
issues/emerging challenges and designed t o meet the needs, i nterests, l earning styles,  
aspirations and bac kgrounds o f our s tudent co mmunity. 
O2.2 O ffer st udents t he opportunity t o dev elop their E ssex educa tion, ha rnessing the pow er 
of ou r intellectual a ssets,  discipline mix and interdisciplinary st rengths, and adopt ing a 
rounded approach  that p repares our st udents t o be innovative, ent repreneurial ch ange-
makers. 
O2.3 Encourage and enable our s tudents to collaborate w ith communities and social 
enterprises to develop projects o r ventures that cr eate social bene fit.  
O2.4 R ealise the oppor tunities t o meet the needs and aspirations o f students and g raduates 
through i nnovative approaches t o learning, i ncluding where appropriate blended learning, 
flexible and accelerat ed degrees,  and flexible opportunities for s tudents and graduates  to 
accumulate cr edit. 
O2.5 D raw on and ex tend our di stinctive discipline mix and capabilities an d our uni que 
research  asse ts to de fine research  challenges, s et agendas, l ead t he adv ancement o f 
knowledge and r espon d to enduring and emerging challenges. 
O2.6 Collaborate with partners w ho share our v alues and commitment t o improving people’s 
lives t o develop innovative programmes o f study a nd research and to promote intellectual 
exchange, i nter-disciplinarity  and openness, guided by pr inciples of open science, 
transparency  and intellectual honest y. 
O2.7 Work  in par tnership w ith Knowledg e Gateway t enants t o drive innovation and 
enterprise in our region, to showcase the U niversity’s r esearch  strengths  and contributions 
as a national l eader i n innovation and the appl ication of knowledg e to business  and 
enterprise (including social ent erprise), and t o sca le the range of oppo rtunities for s tudents 
and staff across  our range of di sciplines  to contribut e to and bene fit from the success  of the 
Knowledge Gateway. 
O2.8 C ontinue to develop the net works,  strategic partnerships and co mmunication channels 
that co nnect ou r research and education base  with our use r communities, including i ndustry, 
enterprise, g overnment, pol icy, public sector and thir d sector users,  to maximise  the 
effectiveness  and impact  of our r esearch  and education in improving peopl e’s lives. 
O2.9 D evelop professional se rvices t hat a re creative, sca lable, s treamlined and efficient, and 
optimised to provide education and research services  to a community of about 20,000 
students and 1,000 researchers in 2028.  
O2.10 R eview, r efine, de velop and create se amless  systems and pr ocesses t o support, 
inform and prompt decision making, monitor t heir impact, e ffectiveness  and efficiency  and 
listen and respond to feedback  from partners and use rs. 
C
ommunities  
O
3.1 Create living and learning communities that foster students and staff to feel a sense of 
belonging, inclusion, well -being, resilience and empowerment. We will  work in collaboration 
with our students and the Students’ Union to shape our communities around our students’ 
needs, ambitions and ideas and to nurture the strengths, capabilities and experiences that 
our students bring to Essex.  
O
3.2 Enhance our support for students’ future lives, careers and learning by scaling the 
range of opportunities for students to apply their learning, including the integration of 
experiential, work -related, employer -engaged and entrepreneurial learning in the curriculum.  
O
3.3 Provide opportunities for our alumni to participate in our living and learning 
communities, nurturing their continuing sense of belonging on our campuses and providing opportunities for alumni to support the advancement of the University through philanthropy, 
to share their experiences with students  and staff, to contribute to the University’s mission in 
education and research and to continue their learning journey with Essex as they progress through the multiple transitions of their future lives and careers .  
O
3.4 Ensure that our campuses are equipped with world class education and research 
infrastructure, including teaching and learning spaces that are designed and equipped to 
enable our ambitions for transformative education, appropriate and flexible facilities and 
equipment for research and shared open spaces for community, collaboration and chance 
encounters.  
O
3.5. Ensure that our natural, built, digital and social environments promote connections, 
community and innovation across departments and sections of the University through 
collaborative and agile working, across and through existing boundaries, a culture of 
empowerment, responsibility and mutual trust, and by supporting wellbeing, motivation and 
effectiveness.  
O
3.6 Develop the networks, strategic partnership and communication channels that connect 
our research base with our user communities (including industry, enterprise, government, 
policy, public sector and third sector users), harnessing the power of co- production to 
maximise the effectiveness of our research outputs in improving people’s lives.  
O
3.7 Be a catalyst for international, national and regional research and development by 
scaling the range of opportunities for researchers to connect with collaborators and communities of practice, globally and locally, and nurturing partnerships that advance the 
quality, profile and visibility of our transformative research and education.  
O
3.8 Continue to connect our alumni with the University and each other to celebrate their 
Essex Spirit and its impact on people and communities, locally and globally.  
O
3.9 Promote the opportunities that the University’s investment s in the Knowledge Gateway  
and in building strong partnerships with others who share our values have  created for 
businesses, industry and regional development partnerships to access knowledge and 
innovation through partnerships with our staff and students and to realise economic growth, increased productivity and social benefit for our region. 
O
3.10 Eng age with the local communities in which the University and its campuses are 
located, including their related public authorities and our local schools, to make the most of the opportunities provided for students and staff from within these communities, and,  through 
the benefit that flows bac k into our l ocal communities  to maximise t he oppo rtunities t hat 
these partnerships provide for the work of the University to have impact in the world. 
University Strategy, 2019-2 8 
Key Performance Indicators 
Overall R eputation and Standing 
Our v ision: We a re an a mbitious uni versity, co mmitted t o global ex cellence i n research and 
education, for the purpose of i mproving people’s l ives.   
KPI 1: TGUG: to be firmly establis hed in the top 25 of UK institutions as measured by 
TGUG; and each subject area to be in the top 20% of their subject area by 2028 
KPI 2: THE: to be ranked in the top 250 of Univ ersities globally , as measured by the Times 
Higher Education (THE) World University Rank ing system by 2025; and in the top 200 by 
2028; and for each subject area reported to THE to be in the top 200 of their subject area by 
2028. 
Education 
Our vision: In 2028, we will be recognised nationally and globally for providing 
transformational educa tion. We w ill put st udent s uccess a t the heart o f our mis sion, 
supporting ev ery st udent from ev ery bac kground t o achieve outstanding outcomes; 
preparing ou r students to t hrive in their future lives and nurturing our co mmunity of educa tors 
to support and promote s tudent su ccess.  
KPI 3 : TEF: University t o retai n TE F Gold awar d and each su bject a rea offered by t he 
University t o obtai n TE F Gold subject l evel at eac h asses sment poi nt. 
KPI 4: National Student Survey: University to remain firmly established in the top 25 of UK 
institutions through the period 2019-20 28, and each s ubject area offered by the University to 
reach the top 20% of their subject area through the period 2019-2 028.   
KPI 5: G raduate O utcomes: U niversity t o be firmly est ablished in the top 25 of U K 
institutions and each subject area offered by the Univers ity to be in the top 20% of their 
subject area by 2025, and to sustain these positions through the period 2025-2 028. 
KPI 6: Student Outcomes (Equality and Diversity): by 2025, University to have no 
significant equality  attainment gaps for measures of student success at institutional level; 
and to maintain this through the period 2025-2 8. 
Education and R esearch 
KPI 7: R esearch Degrees: 
a.Completion: University to exceed the UKRI minimum submission threshold
(submission within 12 active terms) at the institutional level by 2025; maintain this
performance and consistently to meet the minimum threshold in all departments by
2028
.
b.Awards: University’s average number of doc toral awards per FTE of academic  staff
with research in their contract to be equal to benchmarks achieved by research-
intensive Universities.
Research
 
Our vision: In 2028, we will be recognised nationally and globally for the international 
excellence and world- leading quality, s cale and impac t of our r esearc h. Our r esearc h will 
continue to focus  on as king difficult questions, challenging conventional w isdom, t ackling 
with rigour t he questions that m atter for peopl e and communities and putting ideas i nto 
action to i mprove people’s l ives.  
KPI 8 : REF:  
Institutional and subject research p rofile as  indicated by per formance i n the R esearch 
Excellenc e Framework (REF): U niversity t o be i n the top 20 nat ionally f or overall r esearch 
profile i n the 2021 R EF, and eac h Unit of Assessment su bmitted by t he U niversity t o be in 
the top 20%, using TG UG m ethodology. 
KPI 9: C itations: 
To be ranked in the top 40 of UK institutions for citations per publication by 2025; and in 
the top 25 of UK institutions for citations per publication by 2028. 
KPI 10: I ncom e from R esearch 
a.Average research income per FTE for academic  and research staff, calculated at
institutional  
and cost-c entre levels, to meet (by 2025) and exceed (by 2028) average
benchmark ac
hieved by research-intensive UK universities.
b.Research income from industry calculated at institutional level, to meet (by 2025) and
exceed (by 202
8) average income from industry achieved by research-i ntensive UK
universities.
c.Total income reported in HEBCIS calculated at institutional level to meet (by 2025)
and exceed (by 2028) average reported by research-i ntensive UK universities.
Finance  
Our v
ision: We will have grown the University, enabling us to offer transformational 
education to about 20,000 students, to achieve transformational research through a 
community of about 1,000 researchers, to extend our knowledge base by investing in new 
disciplines that meet the needs of our time and to ensure the financial sustainability of the University.  
KPI
 11: Financial Sustainability  
a.Institutional cash surplus to be at least 5.5% annually.
b.Liquidity: minimum requirement for access to cash to fund expenditure determined byrisk-based assessment of minimum liquid funds.
c.Debt servicing costs: Minimum ratio of earnings before income tax, depreciation andamortization (EBITDA) to debt servicing costs to be 2 to 1.
