Strategy and 
Development Plan 
2021–2024

Table of contents
7 Charter
13 Context
19 Strategic areas of action
 21 Data and information
 25 Health and medicine
 28 Materials and manufacturing
 29 Responsibility and sustainability
35 The next generations
39 Pioneering research
 43  Knowledge exchange, technology transfer and  
promoting innovation
47 Enabling strategies
ETH Zurich’s Strategy and Development Plan provides a roadmap 
for the next four years: it is a tool to help the ETH community and the 
institution as a whole chart its course when it comes to education, 
research, and knowledge and technology transfer. Just like science 
itself, this process is not linear, but rather more akin to a constant 
search for solutions and a willingness to critically examine what has 
already been achieved. 
This means that our roadmap must remain flexible to adapt 
quickly to changing circumstances, to let go of what has become 
obsolete, and to seize new opportunities. The coronavirus pandemic 
has shown the world just how quickly the best laid plans and 
intentions can turn to dust. The crisis is not an argument against 
far-sighted planning, but it has shown us that we need to put even 
more emphasis on scientific expertise.
Expanding this expertise and passing it on to the next generation  
is, after all, the raison d’être of our university. The Strategy and 
Development Plan ties into the strategic priorities of the previous 
four-year period and sets out four strategic action areas: data and 
information, health and medicine, materials and manufacturing,  
and responsibility and sustainability.
At the end of the day, it is people who drive ETH Zurich forward 
and make it so successful. This is why living out our values is so 
 crucial: values like responsibility, openness, diversity, team spirit and  
excellence should be guiding our actions. In order to live up to these 
principles, we still have to make improvements in some areas: for 
instance, when it comes to raising female representation throughout 
the university, or transferring the spirit of solidarity shown during 
the corona crisis back into the “new normal” state of affairs. 
ETH has a distinct culture of quality. By culture of quality, we 
primarily mean a culture of learning that adapts to the ever-changing  
demands and expectations of society, students, professors and  
employees. By laying out ETH Zurich’s qualitative goals and the 
measures it will take to achieve them, this Strategy and Development  
Plan is also part of the university’s quality strategy. 
This Strategy and Development Plan outlines ETH’s mission of 
contributing to prosperity and well-being in Switzerland and  4   A word from the President
advocating for the preservation of the country’s vital resources.  
 The scale and complexity of the global challenges we face require 
an interdisciplinary approach and the will to cooperate with stake-
holders from every part of society. We have recalibrated our compass  
and are ready to take the next steps. The next four years offer many 
opportunities for ETH to develop as an educational institution and  
to raise its profile on the national and international stage.5   A word from the President


Charter7


Paving the way in a complex world.9   Vision
10   Mission
By educating the next generation of critical and creative thinkers,  
we make a significant contribution to the common good and  
the preservation of societal well-being, natural resources and  
the environment. Analysing, developing solutions, making  
decisions and creative thinking: these are the key skills of our 
graduates and staff. Our research generates new knowledge  
and technologies for the future. Together with our partners, we  
find answers to the important questions of our time – and in  
doing so, we advance our society, strengthen the economy, and 
protect nature and the environment.
11   Values
Excellence
We strive for excellence in everything that we do. Our students,  
researchers and employees shape our university and society with 
the high quality of their contributions.
Responsibility
Integrity, mutual respect, and respect for people and the environ -
ment form the foundation of our actions and reflect our freedom in 
 research and teaching. We are tackling the great challenges of  
our time and use a culture of critical thinking and the constant search  
for sustainable solutions as our basis.
Diversity
Our success is based on the wide array of talented people in the  
ETH community who creatively develop bold ideas and put solutions 
into practice. We see all aspects of diversity as an opportunity. 
Our international orientation and our intense dialogue with society 
and across disciplines are factors that contribute majorly to 
 developing new research questions and teaching our students.
Openness
We are open to new ideas, new talent and new partnerships. As part  
of this openness, we attach importance to internal and external 
transparency. Participation and involvement are important features 
of our decision-making process and have an identity-forming  
effect. Students, researchers and employees are on equal footing 
in this regard. We are known as a place where people can freely 
express opinions and engage in open debate.
Team spirit
We solve complex issues in complementary teams that cut across 
disciplines and job functions. We are committed to ETH and maintain 
a culture of togetherness, mutual appreciation and mutual learning.

Context13
14   Context
Paving the way
ETH is characterised by its curiosity-driven 
approach to science, proximity to research, in -
novative teaching, strong partnerships and entre -
preneurial spirit. Our staff and students create an 
inspiring environment that st imulates dialogue 
and puts talent development in the spotlight. 
ETH is exploring long-term societal and en  viron -
mental developments in-depth and is strategical -
ly working towards maintaining its position as 
one of Europe’s  –  and the world’s  –  leading 
 universities.
Innovative teaching.  ETH’s main focus areas from 
the previous four-year period  (2017–2020) – medi -
cine, data, sustainability and manufacturing – 
brought about not only numerous new research 
projects, but also new degree programmes. The 
new Bachelor’s programme in Human Medicine 
teaches students the fundamentals of molecu -
lar biology and medical technology alongside 
traditional medical knowledge. EPFL (Swiss 
 Federal Institute of Technology in Lau sanne) 
and ETH Zurich launched a joint Mast er’s degree 
programme in Cyber Security. A new Ma ster’s 
degree programme in Quantum Engineering, 
which includes a strong emphasis on project-  
oriented learning, allows students to implement 
their knowledge in a modern engineering train -
ing programme. From 2017–2020, ETH almost 
doubled the amount of innovative continuing 
education programmes on offer. One ex  ample 
is the new Certificate of Advanced  Studies 
(CAS) in Advanced Materials and Processes, in 
which industry specialists complete a hands-on 
con tinuing education programme as part of a 
 sabbatical at ETH.
Successful research.  The people at a university 
are what drives its success. Our researchers’ 
success rate with regard to European Research 
Council (ERC) grants regularly exceeds  –  by 
far – the European average in every category. The 
same applies to being the home institution for 
the Swiss National Science Foundation’s (SNF) 
National Centres of Competence in Research 
(NCCRs). Our researchers regularly receive 
the highest international honours, such as the 
Fields Medal in 2018. These are just a few select 
examples of our exceptional achievements. ETH 
has also made significant investments in new 
platforms and technologies, thereby creating an 
excellent environment for researching the key 
issues of the future. 
Participation and innovation.  Interdisciplinary 
collaboration is especially successful when 
 people work together to devise solutions that they otherwise would not have achieved  without 
the knowledge, methodology and experience 
of all partners. Open ETH ( formerly known as 
ETH+) allows all members of the ETH com -
munity to shape the future of the university. 
Since 2017, this initiative has seen around 
CHF 130 million invest ed in 15 new professor -
ships, technology platforms, and the establish -
ment of networks and interdisciplinary centres. 
Knowledge and technology transfer are part 
of our core mission. We are seeing positive 
trends when it comes to technology transfer: 
in 2020, 34 new companies were founded as 
ETH spinoffs. ETH Transfer was also the fir st 
non-Anglo-Saxon institution to be honoured by 
the Global University Venturing Award as “Tech 
Transfer Unit of the Year” .
Societal developments and  
global  challenges
In 2015, the member states of the United 
Nations agreed on the Sustainable Develop -
ment Goals (SDGs) as part of their 2030 Agenda. 
All countries are called on to work together 
to solve the urgent problems confronting the 
global community and to fost er sustainable 
development. As platforms for research, teach -
ing and knowledge transfer, universities have 
a special role to play in this undertaking. ETH 
has accepted the challenge and takes the SDGs 
into consideration as part of the university’s 
mission. Below we will look at several import -
ant societal trends and global challenges that 
heavily influenced the formulation of ETH’s 
four strategic action areas.
Digitalisation is shaping all sectors of the econ -
omy and numerous facets of our lives.  Many 
 people fear the job losses that will occur as a result 
of automation – a process that is also threaten -
ing careers in the knowledge economy. On the 
other hand, the automation process is bringing 
about new opportunities that will put completely 
different demands on how employees need to 
be trained and the types of tasks they have to 
perform. Modern, personalised products and 
services based on data have the potential to funda -
mentally change entire sectors in short periods of 
time – and to bring about entirely new models of 
doing business. The need to find solutions to the 
challenges of data protection, privacy and cyber 
security is becoming more urgent, and calls for 
transparency and personal sovereignty over data 
are growing louder. Research and teaching will 
not only have to take these trends into account 
but also influence them, generating stimuli for 
innovation.
15   Context
Climate change is proceeding apace.  The growing 
threat to the ability of the world to su stain a grow -
ing population can only be countered through 
joint global action towards behavioural change 
and more environmentally friendly technologies. 
The impact of climate change  –  temperature 
increases, natural disast ers, thawing permafrost, 
rising sea levels – will not only be felt by coastal 
cities. Consequences such as droughts, famines 
and biodiversity loss pose a threat to global food 
systems and food security in both poor and pros-
perous regions alike – developments that jeop -
ardise peace and security. We are witnessing the 
development of new technologies for  renewable 
energy production and st orage and energy-  
efficient sy stems for both household and indus -
trial use. These technologies will provide a bridge 
to a low-emission or emission-free future. It is 
only possible to achieve a sustainable resource 
economy – one that also takes the growth and 
well  -being of developing and emerging econ -
omies into account  –  through internationally 
recognised cooperation in research and training 
that cuts across borders.
The population is ageing.  Birth rates are low in 
many industrialised nations, while many people 
born in baby-boom years are reaching retirement 
age. The resulting imbalance is jeopardising 
the long-term stability of healthcare and social 
welfare sy stems. Meanwhile, life expectancy is 
increasing thanks to the progress of modern 
medi cine. In order for people to live longer lives 
while remaining healthy, society is looking to the 
scientific community for solutions: prevention 
and treatment that is affordable and can be sus -
tained across generations.
Urbanisation is creating megacities.  All across 
the world, there has been an increase in mobil -
ity and migration from rural regions. The driv -
ers are population growth, coupled with a lack 
of economic perspectives and the impact of 
climate change. Growing urbanisation requires 
expanding the sustainable infrastructure of new 
megacities in a way that considers people’s needs. 
These areas will influence a large part of global 
economic growth in the future.
Society is orienting itself towards a multipolar 
world in which education, technology and inno -
vation will play a central role. ETH, as part of 
a network with partners in education and the 
 private sector, now has a greater chance than 
ever before to contribute to under standing and 
solving all of these challenges. We are taking 
developments in academia and higher educa -
tion on board and working to shape them actively 
going forward. Developments in academia and  
higher education
ETH operates in a competitive environment and 
measures its performance in research and teach -
ing against the best universities and research 
institutions in the world. We want to be an 
attractive institution of higher education for our 
students and an excellent employer for our staff. 
Certain developments are particularly relevant 
to the international university landscape and will 
have a significant impact on our strategic devel -
opment in the future. We will take a closer look 
at these topics in the chapters “The next gen -
erations” , “Pioneering research” , “Knowledge 
exchange, technology transfer and promoting 
innovation” , and “Enabling strategies” .
The higher education landscape around the world 
is in a state of flux.  Universities are engaged in 
a global competition for talent, research results 
and funding, and strive to strengthen the national 
economies of their home countries. Countries 
like China are investing considerable resources 
in educational and research in stitutions and 
are currently in direct competition with tradi -
tional research centres in the United States and 
Europe. What we consider to be universal  values 
are weighted differently in different cultures, 
which leads to different interpretations of scien -
tific ethics and different opportunities when it 
comes to developing and using technology. This 
can have implications for our competitiveness 
going  f orward. 
Increasing the transparency of the university 
and research landscape. The public is turning 
a critical eye towards scientific findings that 
significantly impact the future of the environ -
ment and society. At the same time, higher 
education budgets are coming under political 
pressure. There is an increasing expectation 
from the general public that universities should 
tackle issues such as good governance and social 
responsibility. Good scientific practice, transpar -
ency, better scientific communication, dialogue 
with policymakers and society at large, and an 
exchange between researchers and the general 
public – all of these help to explain research find -
ings and to under stand their practical implica -
tions, strengthening mutual trust on both sides. 
Scientific achievements require this kind of 
intellectual engagement in order for their soci -
etal relevance to be better under stood, accepted 
and supported.
Open access and open data are making 
research results accessible to the general pub -
lic and are changing the established sy stem of 
verifying and disseminating these findings.  
16   Context
Gatekeepers such as prestigious academic jour -
nals and peer review processes are being que s-
tioned, and alternative models are being discussed. 
However, these alternative models must preserve 
basic requirements for scientific publications: 
accuracy, replicability and reproducibility.
In the future, the value that education brings 
to a certain location will be assessed on a global 
level. Universities should develop shared con -
cepts for overcoming the language and cultural 
barriers that arise when working across bor -
ders – and for turning these experiences into 
mutual learning opportunities.
Technological change shapes research and 
teaching.  Modern technology has fundamentally 
changed the way we communicate. It influences 
how we work together, how we share data, and 
how we make use of media. The ability to effi -
ciently process large amounts of data has changed 
processes and methodologies in many areas of 
research. Established methods are now com -
plemented by the use of machine learning, and 
new analytical processes are making large data 
sets more accessible and easier to analyse. The 
growing digitalisation of research requires the 
constant development of research infrastructure.
New technology-based formats are being 
experimented with as education and training 
tools. Around the world, billions are being 
inve sted in educational technology, and the 
online education sector is growing. There are 
two main questions that arise from this state of 
affairs: Who is checking the information that is 
available, determining its accuracy, and making 
it available? And who is teaching the skills and 
methods needed to put theory into practice, to 
assess knowledge critically, and to advance it to 
the next level? These questions are relevant to 
all phases of learning and teaching: secondary 
school, higher education and continuing edu -
cation. Universities that conduct pioneering 
research and research-based teaching have the 
expertise needed to stake out a clear position 
in this environment and to integrate modern 
technologies into their operations. However, 
personal interaction will remain an important 
part of education in the future, which means 
that a modern infrastructure with auditoriums 
and flexible spaces is needed.
Tech companies are investing in basic research 
and competing for talent.  Four of the five US com -
panies with the biggest market capital isation are 
technology companies. China is pursuing a strat -
egy of promoting the global reach of its tech firms. 
These companies are investing billions in research 
and development, with particular emphasis on 
basic research. They are now  competing directly with universities – more so than at any time over 
the past few decades – to recruit the best and 
brightest minds. 
Investing in life-long learning. The next gener -
ations will be characterised by their pursuit of 
multiple careers – sometimes simultaneously. 
The type and amount of available knowledge 
is changing ever more rapidly due to digitalisa -
tion and improved algorithms. This means that 
life-long learning – in particular, learning new 
methods for using knowledge for specific appli -
cations – will continue to grow in importance. 
Universities will need to work with stakeholders 
from the private sector and society at large to 
develop new models that extend beyond conven -
tional continuing education programmes.
The ETH environment
Open and international. The openness and inter -
national outlook of Switzerland as a location 
for education and research is central to ETH’s 
ability to attract excellent students, early- career 
and established researchers, professors and staff. 
Switzerland’s international orientation also 
makes it easier for us to shape and take part in 
international research networks. 
European universities are characterised by 
their intense cross-border cooperation, which 
forms the basis of their joint efforts to find 
knowledge-based solutions to the most urgent 
challenges currently facing society. Horizon 
Europe is a research and innovation programme 
launched by the European Union and is the 
 large st such programme in the world. Switzer -
land’s participation in Horizon Europe is essen -
tial to the country’s development and importance 
as a location for research and innovation.
Last but not least, the quality of life offered by 
Switzerland is very attractive to the large inter -
national companies (and their staff ) who open 
research centres here. This strengthens the eco-
nomic power of the region and the Swiss research 
community.
Autonomy and governance.  The ETH Act, which 
grants us academic and financial autonomy, plays 
a significant role in our successful development. 
The active participation of the entire ETH 
community in shaping the development of the 
university is an important factor in our success 
and sets us apart internationally. The rETHink 
initative, which was launched in 2020 with the 
aim of setting the course for the university’s 
future development, is a good example of our 
ability to consolidate our strengths and engage 
with the ETH community.
17   Context
ETH’s autonomy guarantees efficiency and 
academic freedom, thanks to a structure consist -
ing of autonomous departments and independent 
research groups along with the freedom to set 
and implement our own strategic action areas in 
research and teaching.
Stable and reliable funding. Stable and reliable 
funding from the Swiss federal government is 
essential for fulfilling our core mission and for 
our future organisational development. This 
funding allows us to build excellent infrastruc -
ture and cutting-edge technology platforms. It 
also ensures suitable infrastructure for our profes -
sors, enabling them to submit successful research 
proposals at home and abroad and to conduct 
exploratory basic research. Furthermore, gener -
ous public funding is an important pre requisite 
for successfully acquiring third-party funds and 
is connected with sustainable financial manage -
ment – essential preconditions for our ability to 
remain competitive on an international level.

Strategic areas  
of action19
We are continually developing the diversity of 
our research and teaching activities while at the 
same time keeping our focus on a few core areas 
that are of particular importance for the future of 
Switzer  land. Bolst ered by the individual strategies 
of our academic departments, we have defined the 
following strategic action areas for the 2021–2024 
period: data and information, health and medi cine, 
materials and manufacturing, and respon sibility 
and sustainability. 
All four st rategic action areas open up equal 
possibilities for exploratory basic research, applied  
research, and new teaching programmes. Basic 
research is the foundation for the success of ETH 
as a whole and particularly for mission- oriented 
research targeted at solving global challenges. 
Interdisciplinary collaboration will be strength -
ened in all strategic action areas, thereby promot -
ing the translation of research results into real-
world applications and education and training 
programmes. Our research and teaching activ -
ities acknowledge and respect the diverse range 
of individual and group characteristics. All four 
strategic action areas will facilitate new degree 
programmes, innovative continuing education 
programmes, stronger networking within inter -
disciplinary degree programmes, and project 
work with practical applications.20   Strategic areas of action
Data and information
Our society has been permeated by digitalisation, 
social networks, artificial intelligence and other 
IT-based innovations. The consequences of 
these disruptions – for instance, changes in the 
working world, or issues surrounding  security 
and privacy  –  are fundamental in nature and 
closely linked to technological developments. 
Issues surrounding digitalisation are reflected 
in all strategic action areas, and we are trans -
lating these issues into concrete objectives and 
measures.
Data science and artificial intelligence
Over the course of 2021–2024, we want to create 
more capacity in data science while strengthen -
ing the connection between the core subjects 
of computer science, mathematics, electrical 
engineering and information technology, and all 
other disciplines represented at ETH. The ten -
sion between the broad interest in data and the 
right to privacy has given risen to new interdiscip-
linary research topics that go beyond technical 
issues and require close cooperation with the 
social sciences and humanities.
Working together with Swiss and interna -
tional partners, we will continue to engage in 
important collaborative research. Data Science is 
one of the ETH Domain’s Strategic Focus Areas, 
and it is under this umbrella that we created the 
Swiss Data Science Center together with EPFL. 
The centre provides advice to Swiss businesses 
and research institutions relating to the use of 
appropriate models and methods for machine 
learning. The Center for Learning Sy stems is 
a joint research centre of ETH Zurich and the 
Max Planck Society and is dedicated to machine 
learning. 
We educate computer scientists, giving them 
profound expertise and fost ering their critical 
thinking skills when it comes to digital technol -
ogies. We teach the fundamentals of computer 
science and data science in all our study pro -
grammes. Beyond the walls of ETH, we are con -
tinuing to work with Swiss high schools to recruit 
students for our computer science programme, 
with an emphasis on encouraging female students 
to take an interest in the field. We support schools 
in their goal of comprehensively integrating com -
puter science into their curricula and continuing 
education programmes.
The Greater Zurich Area and other Swiss 
 cities are increasingly becoming IT hubs. This is 21   Strategic areas of action
Objectives
1 We aim to secure our role as a leading research institution in 
data science, cyber security, artificial intelligence and machine 
learning. We seek to promote understanding of the opportun-
ities and risks posed by new technologies while grappling with 
the associated ethical issues.
2 We are strengthening our computer science and data science 
instruction by integrating these topics into all disciplines, 
thereby contributing to the upskilling of society.
3 We foster exchange and cooperation with the Swiss private 
sector and start-ups and act as an expert partner regarding 
issues of digital transformation.
4 We create conditions that attract the world’s best minds in the 
fields of data science, cyber security and artificial intelligence 
and provide them with a challenging and inspiring environ -
ment with attractive conditions for conducting research.
5 We are increasing our involvement in digitalisation initiatives 
in Switzerland and abroad and take a leading role in these 
projects.
Measures and initiatives
  We are in the process of building up the ETH AI Center in order 
to strengthen research on artificial research and related dis -
ciplines. The ETH AI Center will promote interdisciplinary col -
laboration and drive the adoption of new AI developments in 
the natural sciences, health sciences, environmental sciences 
and robotics. An important component of this will be the ETH+ 
initiative Foundations of Data Science.
  A new National Centre of Competence in Research – NCCR 
Automation – is being created to fortify our research and edu-
cation activities in the fields of cyber-physical systems, the 
Internet of Things, autonomous mobility and machine learning. 
Together with our research partners at EPFL, Swiss Federal 
Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology (Empa) and 
the University of Applied Sciences Northwestern Switzerland, 
we will advance the methodological and technological founda-
tions of AI. The aim is to make the broad-scale implementation 
of complex automated systems possible.
  Thanks to new kinds of partnerships with private sector stake -
holders – with large tech firms in particular, but also with 
SMEs and large medical, energy and environmental firms – we 
are securing access to data that is crucial for research. We are 
also advocating to ease access to public sector data.
  ETH is solidifying its position as a hub for research and educa-
tion on security and privacy issues, for instance through the 
ETH+ Security and Privacy in the Digital Society initiative. We 
hope to meet the growing demand for expertise in information 
security and data protection with the new Swiss Support 
Center for Cybersecurity, which builds on existing initiatives 
such as the Zurich Information Security and Privacy Center, the 
SCION project for a secure internet, and the Cyber-Defense 
Campus. We run the centre in cooperation with EPFL and offer 
critical expertise to our partners in the Swiss government, pri -
vate sector and civil society.
  The ETH+ initiative Digital Transformation and Society expands 
ETH’s capacity for interdisciplinary research, teaching, know -
ledge transfer and outreach on the societal dimension of 
 digital transformation. Operating at the interface of social 
sciences, computer science and humanities, the initiative also 
engages with the general public.a development that we want to support, and we 
are increasingly working together with companies 
in the area.
Information security and cyber security are 
topics that enjoy high priority on an economic, 
societal, political and military level. The digi -
talised knowledge economy is critically linked 
with the ability to securely transfer, process and 
store information – while protecting privacy. In 
order to strengthen our expertise in information 
security, we will continue to invest primarily in 
the following areas:
Secure hardware: The security of the entire 
hardware chain must be guaranteed via con -
trolled, secure processes. This requires the 
development of new hardware concepts and 
security standards for connected devices. 
Notably, new computer architectures will 
become necessary to make security by design 
possible.
Secure software: Software security – specif -
ically, the ability to verify authenticity and 
protect against manipulation – requires new 
programming concepts and innovative proto -
cols that work in tandem with secure hardware.
Secure sy stems: The combination of secure 
hardware and reliable software delivers indis -
pensable sy stem security for robotics, net -
worked sy stems and the Internet of Things. 
This has an impact on areas such as the future 
of mobility: self-driving vehicles must be 
secured against unauthorised interventions. 
Automated production, military sy stems, and 
critical infrastructure for energy, water and gas 
supply rely on these novel concepts for secure 
systems.22   Strategic areas of action Data and information
———
—

Quantum engineering and computing
Our strategic involvement in quantum engineer -
ing and computing allows us to shape the devel -
opment of new quantum hardware and software 
and to lay the foundation for future applications.
Quantum technology is revolutionising the 
methodology of how specific numerical problems 
are solved, how data is transferred, and how tiny 
signals can be measured. New findings in quan -
tum physics allow us to tackle problems that were 
previously difficult to solve and to revamp how 
data transfers are safeguarded.
ETH has been at the forefront of shaping quan -
tum information science and quantum technology 
since the advent of these fields. Our strengths lie 
in conducting basic research: we are inve stigating 
various potential platforms and paying particular 
attention to superconducting and semiconducting 
systems, but also to configurations of atoms, ions 
and photons. Over the next few years, we want to 
work across disciplines with physicists, electrical 
engineers, material scientists and computer sci -
entists in order to translate established research 
findings into applied technologies.
Thanks to our cooperation with the Paul 
Scherrer In stitute (PSI) and the private sector, we 
will be able to build the infrastructure required 
for a countrywide quantum ecosy stem. Objectives
1We are educating Switzerland’s first generations of quantum 
engineers.
2We are expanding our capacity in quantum technology at the 
interface between basic research and engineering.
Measures and initiatives
Based on the successes of the Quantum Science and Technol -
ogy (QSIT) NCCR, the Quantum Engineering Initiative, and the 
EU Quantum Flagship, we aim to build a Swiss hub for quan -
tum research over the 2021–2024 period. This ETH Centre 
for Quantum Science and Technology will cover the following 
areas:
  Research: Working at the intersection between physics, com-
puter science and electrical engineering, we will translate 
fundamental findings from the quantum sciences into technol -
ogies and applications. We will expand our capacity at the 
interface of basic research and engineering.
  Education: We will continue to run the new Master’s degree 
programme in Quantum Engineering, which was launched as 
a pilot project in 2019.
  Cooperation: We will work with the PSI and partners from the 
private sector to build a countrywide quantum ecosystem, 
 taking research cooperation in Switzerland and Europe to the 
next level.24   Strategic areas of action Data and information
Health and medicine
Ageing societies in industrialised countries 
require technological solutions for prevention, 
diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation. These 
solutions must be affordable and sustainable 
across generations. Similar solutions can and 
should be used to open up access to medical ser -
vices for all. New medical approaches are being 
developed with the help of data science, digi -
talisation, and new technologies in engineering 
and the life sciences. We under stand health to 
be more than the result of medical processes: 
it is also the result of external influences such 
as nutrition, pollution and individual lifestyles. 
In today’s society, living longer, healthier lives 
is a goal that challenges both medicine and the 
social sy stem and also requires solutions for facil -
itating people’s largely unrestricted participation 
in social life as they age. 
Healthcare research must take a number of 
structural and financial challenges into consid -
eration such as the shortage of highly skilled 
medical researchers as well as the high costs and 
stringent requirements of clinical trials. Partner -
ships between healthcare providers, industry and 
academia are needed to support high-quality med -
ical research and its translation into real-world 
applications. 
We aim to strengthen our contribution to 
the Swiss healthcare sy stem by building on 
our involvement in existing national initiatives 
such as the Swiss Personalized Health Network 
and the ETH Domain’s Strategic Focus Area 
Personalized Health and Related Technologies. 
We will continue to invest in partnerships with 
universities, hospitals and companies, thereby 
promoting the translation of research findings 
into real-world medical applications. University 
Medicine Zurich, a partnership between ETH, 
the University of Zurich and the University of 
Zurich’s four hospitals, will play an important role 
in this process. 
Education and training.  We successfully launched 
the Bachelor’s degree programme in Human 
Medicine as a pilot project in 2017. We will con -
tinue to run the programme and expand our 
cooperation with partner universities. Working 
alongside various Swiss universities, university 
hospitals and cantonal hospitals, we are treading 
new ground in educating and training doctors 
and other healthcare specialists. This is our con -
tribution to training more doctors in  Switzerland 
and is also our way of reacting to rapid devel -
opments in the medical field. New technologies 25   Strategic areas of action
Objectives
1 We are committed to teaching and training a new generation 
of doctors and healthcare experts at the interface of medicine, 
technology and basic research. We support innovators who 
work in the healthcare industry.
2 We foster interdisciplinary collaboration between hospitals, 
researchers and other stakeholders in the healthcare sector.
3 We support digital transformation in medicine by intensifying 
cooperation with computer science.
4 We are developing new solutions for healthcare provision in 
Switzerland, with a focus on prevention, diagnostics and re-
habilitation. These solutions also help to improve healthcare 
in developing countries and conflict zones.

Measures and initiatives
  Developing clinical research centres together with hospitals 
in Zurich (e.  g. The Loop Zurich), Basel and other locations. Cre -
ating additional capacity via professorships that have access 
to clinical research infrastructure, e.  g. ETHeart, which aims 
to develop new therapies for cardiovascular diseases.
  Researching and developing digital/mobile healthcare solu -
tions by establishing research partnerships with the private 
sector. We are paying particular attention to data science and 
personalised medicine: for instance, our tumour profiler pro-
ject (a new diagnostic tool being developed with Hoffmann-  
La Roche, the university hospitals in Zurich and Basel, and the 
University of Zurich) and the Future Health Technologies pro-
gramme at the Singapore-ETH Centre.
  At the Wyss Zurich centre, ETH and the University of Zurich are 
working together with the Wyss Zurich Foundation to translate 
findings from basic research into practical applications for the 
healthcare sector.
  Intensifying research, teaching and knowledge transfer in the 
field of rehabilitation technology and science via the Rehab 
Initiative and the Rehabilitation Engineering and Science 
Center, a centre of excellence that was founded in 2020. We 
will also continue our dialogue with the public by continuing 
our Cybathlon events.
  The Botnar Research Centre for Child Health is a research 
 centre run by ETH and the University of Basel. The centre is 
dedicated to paediatric research, overcoming healthcare chal -
lenges in developing countries, and developing digital and 
mobile healthcare solutions as well as cell-based therapies.
  Launching the Microbiomes NCCR in order to study micro-
organism interaction in various systems (human, animal, plant 
and environmental). A joint initiative by the University of Lau-
sanne, ETH, EPFL, Lausanne University Hospital, the Swiss 
Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (Eawag), 
the University of Bern, and the University of Zurich, the Micro-
biomes NCCR brings together the life sciences, medicine, 
bioinformatics, nutrition and environmental science.
  SKINTEGRITY is an ETH+ initiative that brings together experts 
from basic research, clinical research, bioengineering and 
bioinformatics at ETH, the University of Zurich and the Univer -
sity Hospital Zurich. SKINTEGRITY is improving our under -
standing of and ability to diagnose and treat skin defects and 
severe dermatological illnesses.
  Thanks to the establishment of the MAS programme in Digital 
Clinical Research and the expansion of the MedLAB, we are 
creating an excellent foundation for doctors to familiarise 
themselves with the latest state of research at ETH, either 
during their specialist medical training or later when they are 
practicing physicians.27   Strategic areas of action
are making earlier prediction, reliable diagnos -
tics and effective treatments easier and better. 
These developments, which are also due to 
 digitalisation, require a rethinking and partial 
reorientation of what medical careers look like. 
They also require an increase in interprofessional 
cooperation between hospitals, researchers and 
other stakeholders in the healthcare sector.
Access to medical research and translation into 
real-world applications.  We are opening up 
access to medical research and its translation 
into real-world applications. Approximately 
one-third of our professors in nine different 
departments – from the natural sciences to engin -
eering – are directly or indirectly involved in 
medical research. Their activities include con -
ducting basic research, developing new materials, 
medical technologies, pharmaceutical products 
and other bioactive substances, and creating 
novel approaches for prediction and diagnostics.  
Many of these activities are led by individual 
researchers who often do not have the access to 
patients, patient data or infrastructure that would 
allow them to translate preclinical findings into 
 clinical practice. On the other side of the equation, 
healthcare professionals who work directly on the 
ground often lack access to research infrastruc -
ture and the knowledge of how to turn patient 
data into relevant insights. Closer working rela -
tionships with hospitals and new joint platforms 
for clinical research are improving the translation 
of new research findings into medically relevant 
applications.
Strengthening capacity for medical research. 
In order to promote cutting edge-research, we 
are creating new professorships that will be 
able to develop and lead new kinds of clinical 
studies. Their job consist s of conducting basic 
and applied research and delivering fir st-class 
teaching to students without providing  clinical 
services. We will work together with clinical 
partners to provide the infrastructure that is 
needed for independent medical research. Tech -
nological solutions can be used in tandem to con -
duct expensive, time-consuming clinical studies 
in a more efficient manner.
Engagement in developing countries and conflict  
zones. We are developing solutions and processes 
that allow for outpatient treatment and location  -
independent monitoring, thereby reducing costs. 
Intelligent algorithms can help to develop reliable 
and affordable models for diagno stics and pre -
vention. By working together with international 
organisations, we are demonstrating our commit -
ment to efficient solutions for crisis zones and 
developing regions.Health and medicine
Materials and manufacturing
Objectives
1 We are consolidating our position as a leading research and 
education centre for new materials and pioneering manufac -
turing processes. New findings in these areas will be applied 
in construction, the mechanical, electrical and metal industry, 
medical technology, the pharmaceutical industry and the food 
industry.
2 We are creating networks between the fields of material sci -
ence and manufacturing and process technology to generate 
new applications for industrial use in Switzerland and abroad. 
By bringing together computer science, artificial intelligence, 
and information and communication technology, we are 
exploring possibilities for digitalising and optimising entire 
production processes.
2 By working closely with large companies and SMEs, we create 
added value via active knowledge and technology transfer and 
innovations in materials and manufacturing.
Measures and initiatives
  The Centre for Computationally Augmented Design in Archi -
tecture and Construction (Design++) is an ETH+ initiative that 
is opening up new possibilities in digital design. In the robotics 
space, the RobotX Center brings together intelligent machines, 
infrastructure, education and research, while the Robotic 
Materials initiative is linking new paths in material develop -
ment with the latest advances in robotics, human-robot inter -
action and artificial intelligence.
  The newly launched Laboratory for Multiscale Materials Syn -
thesis is promoting investments in the development of new 
intelligent materials. Suitable models and machine learning 
allow scientists to design new metallic and semiconductive 
materials and to engage in their experimental production and 
characterisation.
  Bringing Materials to Life is an ETH+ initiative that uses an 
interdisciplinary approach to investigate how living organisms 
adjust and produce certain material characteristics in a 
 targeted manner. 
  We are developing a cross-departmental initiative called 
Engin eering with Living Materials, which is dedicated to 
researching material systems that are adaptive, self-healing 
and organic. The goal is also to research temporary materials 
that break down in the body after fulfilling their function.
  Knowledge and technology transfer is supported by inspire AG, 
a national centre of excellence for technology transfer to the 
mechanical, electrical and metal industries.
  AdditivETH is a platform that supports capacity building and 
collaboration in the field of 3D printing and the scaling of 
 additive manufacturing processes for personalised medicine 
and robotics.New su stainable, resource-saving materials and 
production technologies are of great importance 
to the economy and the prosperity of Switzer -
land and the world. Digitalisation is fundamen -
tally transforming the landscape when it comes 
to material development, constructive design 
and manufacturing technologies, and the reuse 
and recycling of materials. These developments 
are leading to more flexibility, productivity and 
quality. Innovative materials and digital manu -
facturing processes such as additive technologies 
and robotics are opening up new possibilities in 
the production of new shapes and combinations 
of materials.
Developing new materials and under standing 
them on all levels – from their atomic structure to 
their use as components – is of great importance 
to future manufacturing processes, which span 
a range that includes nanotechnology, surface 
technology, additive manufacturing, indust rial 
processes and the construction industry. Take 
information and quantum technology as an ex -
ample: progress in these fields depends on the 
ability to integrate new materials into semicon -
ductor manufacturing. In medical technology and 
new industrial production processes, the proper -
ties of materials are decisive for both quality and 
reliability, for instance when it comes to  metallic 
materials, ceramics, plastics, biomaterials and 
construction materials.
ETH helped to build up the ETH Domain’s 
Strategic Focus Area in Advanced Manufactur -
ing over the course of 2017–2020. Manufacturing 
technology was a main focus area of ETH Zurich 
during this time, and we will continue to actively 
promote and develop this field. ETH’s inter -
disciplinary Competence Center for Materials 
and Processes has been successful in bundling 
the university’s general expertise in innovative 
mater ials and its special expertise in soft mater -
ials and metals. The centre is helping to continue 
expanding this expertise by running joint cross-  
departmental projects. We also initiated innova -
tive research projects on additive manufacturing 
and engaged with external partners through 
the ETH Domain’s Strategic Focus Area in 
Advanced Manufacturing. We also strengthened 
research and teaching in digital fabrication and 
 robotics with National Centres of Competence in 
Research by the same names: the NCCR Digital 
Fabrication and the NCCR Robotics. 28   Strategic areas of action
Responsibility and sustainability
The scope and complexity of the urgent challenges 
of our time require a holistic, interdisciplinary 
approach that calls for open cooperation between 
people who think and act critically. According to 
the ETH Act, teaching and research are guided 
by respect for human dignity, responsibility in 
the use of natural resources and the environment 
together with an evaluation of the consequences 
of technological applications. In order to live up to 
these principles, we integrate sustainability into 
our research activities and our daily actions. We 
promote responsibility, cooperation, and a cul -
ture of critical and constructive thinking, and we 
engage in dialogue with the general public.Objectives
1 We promote the responsible use of natural resources through 
research, teaching and innovation.
2 We aim to be carbon neutral by 2030 by reducing our green -
house gas emissions by at least 50 percent compared to 2006 
and covering the remaining emissions via carbon offsets. To 
help achieve this goal, we undertake research and teaching 
projects as part of our Living Labs programme.
3 We take on a leading role in society and the scientific commu-
nity when it comes to assessing the opportunities, risks and 
consequences of technological change. We are strengthening 
our research in this area, which enables us to answer complex 
ethical questions and propose solutions.
4 We are creating structures and instruments to anticipate and 
develop solutions for future technological developments and 
societal challenges long before they happen.
5 We are internationally renowned as an interdisciplinary centre 
of excellence for integrative solutions that cut across discip-
lines, and we foster cooperation on a national and international 
level.
6 We maintain a dialogue with the general public, build new part -
nerships and perform our role as a provider of knowledge for 
evidence-based policy. 
7 We foster the analytical abilities of our students and staff, 
encourage them to reflect on their own actions as well as those 
of others, and urge them to consider various perspectives 
when developing solutions. This allows them to act  responsibly 
on behalf of ETH and society as a whole.29   Strategic areas of action
Sustainability
We want to contribute to global efforts towards 
the sustainable development of all countries 
and the maintenance of our natural resources. 
We have consciously decided to take a holistic 
approach that combines the economic, social and 
ecological dimensions of sustainability. For this 
reason, we are actively committed to the sustain -
able use of resources in our research, teaching 
and innovation activities.
Sustainability is part of the culture at ETH 
and has played a central role in research, teach -
ing and knowledge transfer for many years. Su s-
tainability was one of our five main focus areas 
during the 2017–2020 period. Our research and 
teaching are aimed at better under standing the 
scientific underpinnings of the natural world 
and at bringing more sustainable practices to the 
fields responsible for the bulk of environmental 
pollution. We want to ensure that future gener -
ations can live more sustainably. For this reason, 
our sustainability efforts focus on protecting the 
environment, natural resources and biodiversity 
as well as finding sustainable solutions for con -
struction, housing, energy, mobility and nutrition. 
Furthermore, we live up to sustainable values on 
our own campus and promote the idea of using 
ETH as a living lab.Measures and initiatives
  Urbanisation is a global trend that ETH has been researching 
at the Future Cities Laboratory at the Singapore-ETH Centre. 
The Future Cities Laboratory (FCL) – Global initiative will build 
on these efforts in order to research and design the cities of 
the future on a broader scale. Additionally, we are launching 
a new Master’s degree programme in Landscape Architecture 
to teach the next generation about understanding, maintaining 
and developing public spaces and landscapes in a time of 
rapid change.
   We have partnered with the other ETH Domain institutions, 
private sector partners and additional universities to take part 
in SWEET (SWiss Energy research for the Energy Transition), 
a new funding programme of the Swiss Federal Office of 
Energy. The Energy Science Center has launched the Renew -
able Management and Real-Time Control Platform project as 
a test environment for researching future energy supply sys-
tems. The SCCER Mobility supported the development of 
expertise and networks within the research community as well 
as with the private sector and public authorities. We will build 
on the momentum generated by the SCCER Mobility and our 
mobility initiative to establish the Competence Centre on Sus-
tainable Future Mobility.
  NCCR Catalysis, a new National Centre of Competence in 
Research, has begun and is being conducted jointly with EPFL, 
the University of Basel, the University of Bern, the University of 
Zurich, the School of Engineering and Architecture of Fribourg, 
and the Zurich University of Applied Sciences. Researchers are 
working to lay the basis for sustainable chemistry in order to 
create a CO₂-neutral chemical industry.
  We are breaking new ground in researching and developing 
safe and healthy nutrition. The Future Food Initiative was 
jointly launched by ETH’s World Food System Center and 
EPFL’s Integrative Food Science and Nutrition Center. The ini-
tiative supports up-and-coming researchers on the postdoc 
level, brings academic and industrial research closer together, 
and strengthens efforts to translate academic findings in the 
field of nutrition into real-world applications. The Plant Hub 
Eschikon research station will create a comprehensive infra-
structure for the next generation of plant science.
  By 2024, we aim to reduce our CO₂ emissions by a further 20 
percent compared to 2018, and we will see a substantial reduc-
tion in emissions from air travel. ETH will also continue to 
decarbonise its energy supply by implementing the energy 
master plan for the central campus and developing the Anergie 
grid on the Hönggerberg campus. This will allow ETH to achieve 
the targets set by the Swiss federal government.
  We are strengthening the ETH for Development initiative in 
order to combat poverty sustainably through collaborative 
research between the natural sciences, engineering and social 
sciences. Working together with EPFL, the International Com-
mittee of the Red Cross and other potential partners, we are 
strategically developing technologies and approaches that can 
be used in humanitarian relief work. 
  Along with MeteoSwiss, Empa, the Swiss Federal Institute for 
Forest, Snow and Landscape Research (WSL), and Agroscope, 
we are jointly investing in the cross-institutional Center for 
Climate Systems Modeling and the ETH+ initiative EXCLAIM. 
These investments will create a state-of-the-art infrastructure 
that allows for weather and climate modelling, the develop -
ment of new climate change scenarios for Switzerland, and an 
open conversation with the general public. 30   Strategic areas of action Responsibility and sustainability

Measures and initiatives
  An ethics centre will be established in order to address the 
mounting ethical challenges arising at the intersection of 
research, real-world applications and society. The focus is on 
technoethics, bioethics and scientific ethics.
  In order to understand the opportunities and risks posed by 
technological change and to share this expertise with the 
 public and decision-makers, ETH researchers are joining the 
conversation on the development of new technologies and 
their real-world applications. We are integrating these issues 
into our curricula. 
  We are creating a structure at ETH that allows us to anticipate 
technological and social change and to define strategic areas 
of action with international relevance at an early stage 
( strategic foresight).
Measures and initiatives
  We are creating additional incentives and infrastructure for 
interdisciplinary collaboration. The ETH+ initiative, launched 
in late 2017, promotes capacity building and interdisciplinary 
collaboration between academic departments. Open ETH 
arose from the ETH+ initiative and goes one step further by 
promoting interdisciplinary collaboration beyond ETH, thereby 
lending support to long-term research initiatives.
  Collegium Helveticum has established itself as a transdisciplin-
ary laboratory for creative partnerships and as a location for 
promoting selected up-and-coming talent in the arts and 
sciences.32   Strategic areas of action
Technological change:  
opportunities and risks
New technologies act as the driver of societal 
progress. At the same time, they have great con -
sequences – both positive and negative – for the 
environment and society. These consequences 
are often unexpected and only become visible 
once the technology is at a further stage of devel -
opment. We are examining this issue from two 
angles. Fir stly, how can we use research to iden -
tify the opportunities and risks of technological 
change early on, enhancing its utility for business 
and society while at the same time limiting its 
downsides? Secondly, how can we identify pio -
neering developments early on in order to help 
ETH maintain its position as a leading technical 
and scientific university with national and inter -
national reach?
Interdisciplinary cooperation
The complexity of scientific and sociopolitical 
issues has increased and often goes beyond the 
scope of a single discipline. Working together 
across different fields will better the odds of find -
ing innovative solutions.
ETH+, an initiative launched in late 2017, 
began a process of promoting interdisciplinary 
issues that cut across departmental lines and 
building up the capacity needed to address them.Responsibility and sustainability
Measures and initiatives
  We are intensifying our dialogue with society at large when it 
comes to issues from our strategic action areas, employing 
innovative formats and contemporary forms of science com -
munication. We will continue to increase our capacity to engage 
in an open, proactive dialogue with the public, building on suc-
cessfully established outreach programmes such as Treff -
punkt Science City, Scientifica, ETH Meets You and the ETH 
Digital Platform.
  We engage with policymakers and inform policy through dia -
logue and new platforms, bringing the scientific community 
and decision-makers together. 
  We are developing new exhibition formats and platforms for 
dialogue that fuse science and art and help to present complex 
topics in an attractive, accessible way. By moving art and 
 science closer to one another, we are acting in the spirit of 
 Gottfried Semper’s motto: “Science shall be pervaded by art 
and art by science.”
  We bring ETH to life in an interactive visitors’ centre. Our 
diverse collections are being made more accessible thanks to 
digitalisation. Engaging with the public
As a leading European scientific and technical 
university and one of the best universities in 
the world, we have a responsibility to constantly 
promote and cultivate knowledge exchange in 
a spirit of partnership with the scientific com -
munity, the private sector, policymakers and the 
general public.
We serve society by educating graduates with 
a sense of responsibility and sending them into 
the world equipped to think and act in a global, 
sustainable context. We use our research find -
ings to provide an empirical basis for political 
and economic decision-making and to cultivate 
a dialogue with the public on equal footing. 
The COVID-19 crisis has once again confirmed 
how important scientific findings are to govern -
ments and societies. Although most research had 
to be conducted remotely, new research activities 
quickly arose and contributed to our under stand -
ing of the pandemic and how to deal with and 
contain it. Researchers pushed ahead with new 
projects at breakneck speed, ranging from basic 
research in biology, chemistry, health science and 
medicine to engineering new types of ventilators. 
The helfpfulETH platform was created to bring 
hospitals and other healthcare institutions closer 
to the research community so that researchers 
could react quickly to concrete needs and develop 
solutions.
The social, economic and political implica -
tions of the pandemic are also important research 
questions, including the impact on our behaviour, 
the working world and management. Two areas 
of research have enjoyed particular prominence: 
inve stigations of how the virus spreads, both 
within Switzerland and globally, and the devel -
opment of the SwissCovid app, a tool for contact 
tracing that was created in cooperation with EPFL 
and the Federal Office of Public Health. Several 
ETH professors serve on the Swiss National 
COVID-19 Science Task Force and provide their 
expertise to the federal authorities. 33   Strategic areas of action Responsibility and sustainability

35
 The next   
generations
36   The next  generations
We are training our students to become independ -
ent and creative thinkers who can act as respon -
sible citizens and help shape the future. Education 
at ETH is interdisciplinary and research-based; 
it trains students to identify problems and find 
solutions in our complex, quickly changing world.
Our degree programmes provide a solid 
metho dological foundation and technical expert -
ise, interdisciplinary and sy stemic thinking, and 
social skills. We fost er a culture of independent 
learning that boosts students’ individual strengths 
and allows them flexibility in designing their 
study programme. Our study programmes and 
curricula are competitive and oriented towards 
the needs of the next generations and the work -
ing world. Our graduates are in high demand in 
society, the scientific community and the private 
sector in Switzerland and abroad.
Students are active agents in their education 
and help shape courses through their participa -
tion. They are motivated, committed to acquiring 
social and technical skills, and open to innovative 
forms of teaching.
Research-based teaching
Research and teaching must be closely linked. 
We therefore continually develop the content 
of our degree programmes based on the latest  
developments in science and technology. The 
challenge lies in developing new content that 
simultaneously teaches and solidifies the basics 
of the field while taking cutting-edge develop -
ments into equal consideration. Integrating all 
ETH researchers into our teaching activities is 
the best way to achieve this. Our close working 
relationship with the private sector allows us 
to hold courses that give students real-world 
insights and encourage entrepreneurial thinking.
Our curricula are sy stematically developed 
in order to fost er flexibility and personal initia -
tive. We give students more freedom of choice 
within their degree programmes by offering more 
specialisations and electives. Students are sup -
ported by tutors when designing their studies. 
Our Mast er’s degree programmes are designed 
to give st udents direct entry into cutting-edge 
research or the ability to launch a career in the 
private or public sector.
Creativity and soft skills
Teaching skills outside of the subject immediately 
at hand is an important component of all courses. 
Students and staff develop and practice the  ability 
to differentiate between different positions, 
points of view and behaviours, to critically – and 
self-critically – examine them, and to identify 
appropriate courses of action. Critical thinking 
thus forms the foundation of a comprehensive 
vision of university education and  organisational Objectives
1 We promote the acquisition of soft skills (e.  g. entrepreneurial 
thinking), social skills, leadership abilities, computational 
competencies, and the ability to analyse complex issues. 
2 We are intensifying our efforts to create space for curiosity, 
creativity and flexibility in our degree programmes, thereby 
laying the foundations for lifelong learning.
3 We use modern technology in our teaching activities, integrate 
scientific findings into our lessons, and conduct pedagogical 
research.
4 Our courses for future teachers place heavy emphasis on 
teaching critical thinking skills to ensure that this fundamental 
concept is already taught in early education. 
37   The next  generations
culture that teaches additional soft skills. These 
skills make it possible to solve complex prob -
lems and shape our transformation towards a 
 sustainable society. 
Soft skills also include the ability to openly 
reflect on and maintain one’s own physical and 
mental health. We support students by giving 
them appropriate workloads. We live up to our 
leadership responsibilities and offer support and 
advice to students and staff.
We motivate students and staff to think cre-
atively beyond cultural and field-specific borders, 
to assess complex problems holistically, to adopt 
stances based on ethics and to act in a responsible 
manner. They should also recognise how stereo-
types and unconscious bias work and under stand 
why awareness of equal opportunity and  diversity 
form an important component of responsible 
conduct.
The Science in Perspective programme teaches 
students to recognise connections between scien -
tific findings, technical innov  ations, cultural 
contexts, individuals and soci eties and to assess 
them in a critical manner. This improves students’ 
reflection skills and prepares them for the societal 
developments and global challenges that they will 
later face. This kind of thinking is being increas-
ingly integrated into all degree programmes.
We are particularly committed to project-based 
learning, which is being strengthened and pro -
moted in all departments. Projects are an import -
ant tool for increasing students’ motivation and 
curiosity via interdisciplinary collaborative work. 
They also serve to promote the development of 
students’ social skills and ability to think holisti -
cally. Experiential and problem-oriented learning, 
comprehensive skill development and construct -
ive feedback are all central components of this 
process.
Quality through innovation
Quality assurance for teaching and curriculum 
development needs to be viewed through the lens 
of ETH’s growing student population, the growing 
heterogeneity of the st udent body and the addition 
of new degree programmes and technologies.
This growth, particularly on the Mast er’s 
degree level, is a challenge because of the level of 
individual supervision required for each student. 
For this reason, we need to develop instruments 
that allow for moderate growth without losing 
sight of quality, to significantly increase our 
teaching capacity both in terms of infrastructure 
and staff, and to develop new teaching formats 
and techniques that increase the efficiency of 
teaching without reducing its quality.
New technologies have had a major impact 
on teaching over the past two decades, making 
it possible to host remote lectures and easier Measures and initiatives
  We are launching new initiatives and developing existing pro-
grammes such as ETH Week in order to meet the urgent need 
for soft skills and critical thinking abilities. The ETH Talent 
project aims to emphasise the importance of soft skills, to 
boost the visibility of interdisciplinary training, and to provide 
lecturers with easy-to-implement didactic models. PRISMA is 
a student project that integrates interdisciplinary project work 
into the ETH curriculum. As part of PRISMA, students work  
in small interdisciplinary teams to tackle important social  
and scientific questions and to develop answers to challenges 
 facing societies across the globe. 
  The Student Project House promotes the development of soft 
skills and entrepreneurial thinking. The Social Innovation Lab, 
which is part of the Student Project House, offers students the 
opportunity to tackle unsolved societal problems of global sig -
nificance by working together in interdisciplinary teams. The 
ETH Singapore Month programme pursues a similar goal. The 
four-week summer school at the Singapore-ETH Centre is run 
together with CREATE and local partners. 
  The new Future Learning Initiative is supported by twenty  -
three professors from nine departments. The aim is to make 
ETH a leading centre for the science of learning, with research 
that can be immediately applied to teaching practice. ETH sup -
ports innovative adjustments to teaching in its academic 
departments as well as student initiatives. 
  ETH supports student initiatives. One example is the establish -
ment of the new Interdisciplinary Engineering degree pro -
gramme, which provides students with the opportunity to 
combine the fundamentals of engineering with content from 
all engineering fields, business and management, and the 
social sciences and humanities. The programme promotes a 
holistic interdisciplinary education and meets the demands of 
the job market by expanding the methodological skills of our 
graduates. 
  Our Youth Academy promotes STEM subjects and specialisa -
tions to high school students, recruits suitable students to 
study at ETH, and prepares them for their degree programmes. 
The initiative is based on ETH’s strong relationships with high 
schools in German- and Italian-speaking Switzerland. It offers 
exciting courses that are scientifically evaluated for effective-
ness and continually improved.
38   The next  generations
to study on a flexible timetable. By combining 
these formats with mentoring and interdisciplin -
ary project work, it becomes possible to take 
students’ individual learning styles more into 
account. Teaching concepts based on this kind 
of new technology require that students have the 
skills and ability to deal with flexible, changing 
and individualised forms of learning – skills that 
are becoming increasingly important in the work -
ing world as we move into the future.
The COVID-19 crisis was a great challenge for 
lecturers, students and staff at ETH. At the same 
time, however, the crisis provided an impetus for 
innovative teaching ideas. Driven by the special 
circum stances of the lockdown, di stance learning 
became a widespread form of instruction within 
just a short period of time. While it is clear that 
direct interaction between lecturers and students 
will remain a core component of excellent teach -
ing, our experiences with remote teaching during 
the lockdown have advanced our under standing 
of how to best combine classroom teaching with 
new online methods in the future. 
The changes in education accelerated by the 
corona crisis have boost ed the importance of 
research into teaching and learning. Our goal 
is to continue improving teaching and learning 
outcomes on the university level and to take on a 
leading role in the science of teaching and in  nova -
tive teaching methods. We want to under stand 
the nature of formal and informal learning on 
a neural, cognitive, social and cultural level and 
to drive the implementation of these findings in 
real-world teaching activities.
We fo ster innovation in teaching via strategic 
programmes, funding instruments, prizes and 
curriculum development experts. We give the 
Golden Owl and KITE awards to teaching staff 
who exhibit excellence in teaching and enrich 
their lessons in innovative ways. We will continue 
expanding virtual reality and online platforms 
that enable new kinds of interactions. While 
regular interaction between teaching staff and 
students should take place in person wherever 
possible, digital technologies can complement 
personal contact and allow for independent learn -
ing, subject specialisation and flexibility. There 
will be expanded options for participation, and 
the personal supervision of large groups of stu-
dents will become easier, even when the students 
are scattered across the globe.
Findings from research in teaching and 
learning and the development and application 
of new technologies help us to develop strat-
egies for dealing with the growth of the student 
body. During the last planning period, the aca -
demic departments and the Educational Devel -
opment and Technology office launched several 
 initiatives such as the Center for Active Learning and  sabbatical opportunities for lecturers in the 
private sector (and vice versa). We will build on 
these initiatives in order to continue shaping the 
development of teaching, particularly with regard 
to introducing new technological tools and in  -
novative teaching methods.
A significant portion of math, computer sci -
ence and natural science teachers in advanced 
high schools in Switzerland are graduates of 
ETH  Zurich. By training these future STEM 
teachers, we support high school students’ inter -
est in science and mathematics and fost er the 
skills they need to succeed in these subjects. We 
therefore consider the education and training of 
high school teachers to be one of our core activ -
ities and an important contribution to knowledge 
transfer in Switzerland. We also run learning cen -
tres at EducETH, where we support instruction 
in STEM subjects at the primary and second -
ary level by working together with teachers to 
develop and implement new teaching concepts.
39
Pioneering   
research
40   Pioneering  research
Objectives
1 We will continue to create space for exploratory research and 
provide optimal conditions for using the great innovative 
potential of basic research.
2 Building on their strengths and expertise, our academic 
departments work together closely with the aim of strategic-
ally establishing interdisciplinary research expertise and 
research centres.
3 We will maintain, consolidate and construct top-notch scien -
tific infrastructure and make our technology platforms avail -
able to the research community and the private sector.
4 We create structures to ensure that our scientists respect 
 ethical principles and good scientific practice in their research 
and day-to-day interactions.Research is the primary source of innovation in 
knowledge-based societies. It forms the founda -
tion for higher education at ETH. Our outstand -
ing research achievements are made possible by 
generous federal funding, competitive research 
grants (particularly those from the Swiss National 
Science Foundation, Innosuisse, numerous 
foundations, and European research funding 
programmes), and collaboration with the private 
sector. This helps us ensure that our research 
findings can make long-term contributions to the 
wellbeing of society, to economic development, 
and to solving the complex problems facing our 
planet.
Our current strategic challenge is balancing 
the need to advance new fields of research while 
further developing our expertise in core fields. 
Our goal is to add new research areas by continu -
ally expanding capacity, particularly by appoint -
ing new professors, and to open up important 
new areas of interdisciplinary investigation.
Investment in curiosity-driven research 
We ensure that researchers have optimal con -
ditions and financial resources for conducting 
 cutting-edge basic research. We promote research 
into new issues through bottom-up research initi -
atives while respecting the principles of subsidi -
arity and autonomy.
Research networks
We are continuing to promote bottom-up inter -
disciplinary projects within ETH and will take part 
in national research networks such as NCCRs. 
Furthermore, we make significant contributions 
to the Strategic Focus Areas of the ETH Domain: 
Data Science, Personalised Health and Related 
Technologies, and Advanced Manufacturing. We 
are also intensifying bilateral cooperation with 
institutions within the ETH Domain, with the 
University of Zurich, and with other players.
The digitalisation of research
The ability to efficiently collect, st ore and process 
vast amounts of data is changing the way we do 
research and making a big impact on scientific 
methodology in many fields. Examples include 
using computer-assist ed machine learning to 
complement model-based approaches, and the 
extraction of information and knowledge using 
new types of analytical processes. In order to stay 
on top of these trends, we are building our expert -
ise and resources in statistics, data science, infor -
mation theory, modelling and machine learning 
in several departments. At the same time, we 
are intensifying the links between mathematics, 
computer science, information technology and 
other disciplines in order to develop new research 
areas at the intersection of these disciplines.
41   Pioneering  research
Measures and initiatives
  We promote basic research and interdisciplinary research by 
operating and expanding existing structures and initiatives 
such as the Institute for Theoretical Studies and National 
 Centres of Competence in Research. 
  We are launching the Origin and Prevalence of Life initiative to 
explore the origin and diversity of life on this planet and 
beyond. The main elements of the initiative are an interdiscip-
linary centre and the creation of new professorships to build 
an important bridge between existing professorships and 
activities in biology, chemistry, physics, earth science and 
environmental science. There are also plans for courses with 
a stronger interdisciplinary focus in this area.
  We are launching the Filming Electrons in Action initiative in 
collaboration with the PSI. The latest advances in ultra-fast 
laser technology combined with XFEL technology allow us to 
better understand the swift movements of electrons over very 
short distances. 
  The development and university-wide implementation of a soft -
ware system for evaluating and funding projects in teaching 
and research (eResearch) will make it possible to manage fund -
ing more efficiently and advance digitalisation at ETH.
  We are planning a significant development of the Swiss 
National Supercomputing Centre, with the upcoming upgrade 
of the Sustained Scientific User Lab for Simulation Based Sci-
ence deserving special mention. There are also plans for new 
research infrastructure. ETH will continue to provide dedi -
cated data processing infrastructure, expanding it based on 
the needs of researchers.
  We are working together with EPFL to establish the Swiss 
Catalysis Hub, a new research infrastructure within the ETH 
Domain. Various other ETH Domain institutions are involved in 
establishing the hub, which will advance the development of 
new kinds of catalytic processes and the use of renewable 
energy sources such as hydroelectric, solar and wind energy 
to power chemical reactors. The hub is a central element of 
the NCCR Catalysis.1 
  We will continue to develop guidelines and processes with 
regard to scientific integrity, good scientific practice and deal -
ing with scientific misconduct.
  We are developing university-wide guidelines for handling 
research data. These guidelines will take the principles of 
open data, open code and open innovation into account. In the 
long term, we are striving towards a comprehensive open 
 science policy that will serve as the basis for further concrete 
measures.The digitalisation of research also requires con -
stant infrastructure development. This requires 
an expansion of our existing data processing and 
storage infrastructure – and related programming 
support – in strategically important areas.
Research infrastructure and  
technology platforms
Today’s research is, to a large extent, based on 
technology. This means that we can only main -
tain our top position by operating and constantly 
updating our cutting-edge research infrastruc -
ture and by strengthening collaborative research 
through our technology platforms.
National and international consortia are 
increasingly needed to tackle this challenge due 
to the complexity and the rising costs for plann -
ing, building and operating this kind of infra -
structure. For this reason, we operate large-scale 
national research infrastructure and take part in 
inter national consortia and cross-border funding 
for international research organisations such as 
CERN. 
Good scientific practice
Our structures and processes ensure that eth -
ical principles and good scientific practice are 
respected and adhered to, both in our research 
and in our daily interactions with one another. 
The Commission for Good Scientific Practice 
promotes the development of a common under -
standing on issues surrounding ethical principles 
and scientific integrity in research.
Open science
Increasing the quality and speed of research 
requires fast er, more comprehensive access to 
research findings as well as a higher degree of 
transparency in research processes. These are 
values currently at the heart of a global debate 
on what is referred to as “open science” . Both 
the scientific community and society at large 
are putting more pressure on institutions to take 
action in this regard. We recognise the strategic 
importance of open science and provide clear 
guidelines on this topic, chiefly for areas that 
aim to improve research collaboration. ETH will 
continue to develop its excellent open access 
and open data services and will expand them to 
include the closely related areas of open code and 
open innovation.
1  Please refer to the section entitled “Responsibility and 
 sustainability”. 

43
Knowledge exchange, 
technology transfer  
and promoting 
 innovation
44   Knowledge exchange, technology transfer and promoting innovation
Sharing knowledge and translating research results 
into commercial products are two activities that 
build an important bridge between academia and 
society. We have a responsibility to make original 
insights and new findings available to the public 
via education and knowledge exchange.
We actively contribute to progress and pros -
perity in our digitalised world by translating our 
research results into concrete applications, by 
educating graduates who go on to work in  private 
companies and government, and by founding 
innovative spin-off companies. Educating our 
students is our most important contribution to 
knowledge exchange and building Switzerland’s 
innovative strength. We complement this through 
a broad spectrum of knowledge exchange activi -
ties such as joint research projects with business 
and licensing new technologies. Additionally, we 
are increasingly committed to continuing educa -
tion, which meets society’s growing demand for 
lifelong learning.
Collaboration with the private sector
One important feature of ETH as a scientific and 
technical university is its close collaboration with 
business partners in Switzerland and abroad. In 
addition to joint projects, these partnerships 
also lead to the establishment of new professor -
ships. Many departments have economic advisory 
committees that help shape the development of 
teaching and research and serve as an important 
barometer for the needs of the economy. Mem -
bers of these committees provide mentoring to 
students and junior researchers. On the other 
side of the equation, our researchers play impor -
tant roles as leaders and advisors in national and 
international companies and organisations.
Promoting the innovation ecosy stem
In addition to direct collaboration with the pri -
vate sector, ETH Zurich shapes society and the 
economy through its start-ups. We promote 
entrepreneurial activities throughout the ETH 
community, with a special emphasis on bring -
ing our research findings to market by patenting 
promising technologies and founding spin-off 
companies. Diverse programmes such as the 
ETH Zurich Pioneer Fellowship support young 
researchers as they transition from research to 
start-up life. Official ETH spin-offs receive sup -
port during their founding and the fir st few years 
of their exist ence, including receiving profes -
sional advice, access to essential infrastructure 
and networking with key players in the private 
sector. More than 100 new ETH spin-offs have 
been founded over the past four years.
We view engagement with industry and 
knowledge and technology transfer as a  long-term 
commitment and our way of contributing to Objectives
1 We promote partnership-based exchange and collaboration 
with Swiss companies, which contributes to the prosperity and 
innovative strength of the country.
2 By working closely together with businesses and public 
authorities, we enable society to benefit from our research 
findings, and we support the swift translation of new ideas into 
real-world applications through our spin-off companies. We 
aim to sustain the positive trend of the last few years. 
3 We are developing new models for lifelong learning and con -
tinuing education and tapping into new target groups, thereby 
strengthening the employability of the Swiss workforce and 
the competitive advantage of the country.
45   Knowledge exchange, technology transfer and promoting innovation
 innovation and prosperity in the Canton of 
Zurich as well as Switzerland as a whole. For 
this reason, we work together with public and 
private sector partners to develop the innova -
tion  ecosy stem in the greater Zurich region and 
throughout Switzerland. We take an active role 
in shaping knowledge and technology transfer 
thanks to our strong collaboration with business 
incubators and venture capital funds and our par -
ticipation in innovation parks. We work closely 
together with the city, canton, federal govern -
ment and private businesses to make this happen.
In order to develop and strengthen our know -
ledge transfer activities and private sector engage -
ment, the ETH Executive Board will have its 
own Vice President for Knowledge Transfer and 
 Corporate Relations starting in 2021.
Lifelong learning:  
new models of continuing  education
Digitalisation is rapidly changing the world of 
work. This development is closely linked to the 
changing, increasingly individualised learning 
behaviour of today’s and tomorrow’s generation.
Continuing education gives people the oppor -
tunity to secure their livelihoods by adapting 
to the needs of the labour market, and it helps 
maintain Switzerland’s innovative strength and 
competitive advantage. We promote continu -
ing education primarily by expanding our con -
tinuing education programmes, an effort that is 
supported by the School for Continuing Edu -
cation. Our continuing education programmes 
are closely linked to our research activities and 
geared towards the needs of the labour market, 
both in terms of content and format.Measures and initiatives
  We are expanding the innovation ecosystem in the Zurich 
region and accelerating knowledge and technology transfer by 
building on existing initiatives such as Technopark and the 
Innovation Park in Dübendorf.
  The construction of the ultra-modern Good Manufacturing 
Practice technology platform at the Department of Biosystems 
Science in Basel is advancing the knowledge translation pro -
cess and progress in personalised medicine. This technology 
platform is creating strong synergies between the University 
of Basel, the University Hospital Basel and ETH.
  A new building for student and business projects is being built 
on Hönggerberg campus. It will house existing initiatives such 
as the Student Project House and offer space for new projects 
that promote entrepreneurialism and collaboration with the 
private sector.
  Our new Certificate of Advanced Studies (CAS) programme in 
Entrepreneurial Leadership in Technology Ventures offers 
participants with backgrounds in the natural sciences or engin-
eering essential skills in business administration, strategy and 
leadership.
  We offer continuing education programmes so that the Swiss 
workforce can meet the challenges of digital transformation. 
To this end, we will continue developing the School for Con -
tinuing Education and its research-related, market-oriented 
 curriculum. 
  Novel concepts and formats for lifelong learning provide sup-
port to graduates throughout their entire careers and also get 
them involved with ETH by providing a platform to contribute 
their knowledge and experience.

Enabling   
strategies47
48   Enabling  strategies
Our staff is key to the success of ETH. Thanks to 
them, we achieve excellence in research, teach -
ing, knowledge exchange and technology  transfer. 
They are highly educated, engaged in lifelong 
learning and development, and participate in 
the success of our institution. Recruiting and 
appointing new professors plays an essential role 
in the continued development of our teaching 
and research activities. In addition, we maintain 
modern infrastructure and technologies and offer 
efficient, cust omer-oriented internal services. 
We anticipate and adapt to the requirements of 
digitalisation on an ongoing basis. 
Quality assurance enjoys the highest priority 
in all areas at ETH. All members of the ETH com -
munity, whether they work as academics or in 
support or administrative roles, strive to achieve 
top quality in everything they do. By laying out 
ETH Zurich’s qualitative goals and the measures 
it will take to achieve them, this Strategy and 
Development Plan is also part of the universi -
ty’s quality strategy. Our quality assurance prin -
ciples, processes and responsibilities for teaching, 
 research and knowledge transfer are outlined in 
a separate report entitled “Guidelines for the 
intern al quality assurance sy stem at ETH” (avail -
able in German only).
We are a socially responsible employer that 
creates attractive conditions for our employees. 
We support our st aff in all job functions and at 
every level of responsibility. During the  2021–2024 
period, we will place special emphasis on develop -
ing our management’s leadership skills, increasing 
diversity and promoting equal opportunity.
49   Enabling  strategies
Diversity and equal opportunity
 Objectives
1 We foster a culture of appreciation, respect and inclusion that 
allows all members of the ETH community to productively 
interact on equal footing.
2 We ensure equal opportunities and are working to increase  
the percentage of women in research and teaching at all  
levels, with emphasis on leadership positions and committee 
memberships.
3 We are increasing the proportion of female professors by striv -
ing to fill 40 percent of new professorships with women. 
4 We define inclusion as a task shared by all organisational units 
at ETH. In doing so, we follow the principles of accessibility and 
participation.
Measures and initiatives
  In order to increase the percentage of women at all levels – and 
especially as professors – we have set aside part of the budget 
to create ten additional professorships by 2024, on top of the 
professorships that were already planned.
  We address and avoid prejudice of all kinds and raise the ETH 
community’s awareness of unconscious biases – for instance, 
by including the topic in teaching evaluations and as part of the 
professorial appointment process. We also train professors 
and other managers to be aware of bias in recruitment, pro -
motion, supervision and conflict management.
  The Barrier-Free ETH Zurich project, which was launched in 
late 2018, is currently underway. This accessibility project 
aims to eliminate as many barriers as possible to improve 
access to ETH for everyone, regardless of impairment. This 
extends to students, staff and visitors. “Design for all” is the 
guiding principle, meaning that ETH is aiming for a general 
improvement in quality for everyone without erecting new 
 barriers. 
  We are strengthening work-life balance. We offer family-  
friendly conditions to members of the ETH community and 
work to continually develop these conditions.
  We pursue a variety of measures to strengthen communication 
and togetherness in order to promote multilingualism and the 
integration of all ETH members into the community. We offer 
new forums for exchange and interaction and encourage 
ETH Zurich members from Switzerland and abroad to take our 
language courses, which also helps to improve their skills for 
the labour market.Diversity is a source of intellectual creativity, 
especially now that scientific work is increas -
ingly collaborative in nature. We want to ensure 
the success of scientific work that is conducted 
by large interdisciplinary teams from across the 
world. This is why diversity is an important factor 
to our success.
We want to create an environment for working 
and studying in which all participants experience 
the same level of appreciation and support. We 
perceive diversity as an opportunity. This also 
includes making sure that women are involved in 
a variety of roles on all levels: whether as students, 
doctoral students, professors, or scientific, tech -
nical or administrative staff, having more women 
means having more diverse perspectives – which 
is key to remaining innovative and successful in 
the future. Just like at many other leading scien -
tific and technical universities, women are under -
represented at all academic career levels at ETH. 
For this reason, promoting women is one of our 
top priorities on every level. We will ensure that 
women can realise their potential at ETH.
In 1992, we established the Equal Opportun -
ities Office, which now goes by the name Equal!. 
The Equal! office issues an annual Equality Mon -
itoring Report and hosts a variety of events every 
semest er. We will continue pursuing the meas -
ures outlined in the Gender Action Plan, which 
was launched in 2014. We are placing special 
emphasis on the Fix the Leaky Pipeline career 
development programme, which supports doc -
toral candidates and other young female scientists 
over the course of their academic careers.
Objectives
1 We train early-career researchers and prepare them for 
a career in academia or the private sector in a competitive 
global environment.
2 We aim to systematically expand recruitment, training and 
supervision of early-career researchers. In doing so, we will 
also expand and support the optimal development of our 
career ecosystem. 
3 We foster permeability and mobility between academic and 
private sector careers and equip early-career researchers 
with the skills and knowledge they need for different positions 
in the labour market, both inside and outside academia. 
4 We offer our administrative and technical staff a variety of 
development opportunities, enabling them to maintain their 
performance and skill development throughout their careers.
5 We create an inspiring environment that allows for exchange 
and interaction among colleagues, academic freedom, and 
secure access to top-notch infrastructure.Our international positioning is contingent on 
our ability to recruit the most  talented people 
from around the globe, no matter their gender 
or sociocultural background. Our students’ and 
employees’ different perspectives and experi -
ences are a significant source of our school’s 
strength as well as a source of enrichment for the 
ETH community. These perspectives and experi -
ences also create added value when it comes to 
the global competition for talented people. Our 
goal is creating a working environment that can 
make use of this potential.
International mobility is a prerequisite for 
academic careers: as academia is international in 
nature, this allows us to acquire new expertise 
and create new collaborative partnerships.
For this reason, it is crucial to recruit, develop 
and build relationships with talented academic 
and non-academic st aff. While recruiting inter -
national top talent is of central importance, we 
must also create excellent conditions to develop 
talented researchers from our own degree pro -
grammes, doctoral programmes and post -doc 
programmes.
Doctoral studies at ETH Zurich
The doctorate is the fir st step in a scientific 
career in academia or business and lays the 
foundation for a successful management career. 
Doctoral programmes are our most import -
ant contribution to promoting early-career 
researchers. This is why supervising and men -
toring doctoral candidates enjoys the highest  
priority. We provide holistic doctoral education 
that spans research, technical knowledge, soft 
skills and integration into the scientific commu -
nity. Using these principles as a guide, we are 
expanding our doctoral education programmes 
based on scientific findings, international best  
practices, and a dialogue with doctoral student 
organisations. 
Our doctoral students are selected based on 
their proven performance and academic poten -
tial. We give them the chance to join the sci -
entific community by conducting  independent 
research and to gain experience in teaching. 
This provides them with valuable qualifica -
tions for working in different areas later in their 
careers.
Experienced researchers act as supervisors to 
doctoral students, which plays a decisive role for 
success in their doctoral studies. We are expand -
ing our training and support in this area for both 
professors as well as doctoral students.50   Enabling  strategies
 Talent and early-career researchers
Measures and initiatives
  For doctoral programmes, we are introducing new measures 
in order to improve the supervision of doctoral students. For 
instance, we are developing an orientation programme for 
professors and providing doctoral students with a second 
mentor/supervisor (in addition to their thesis supervisor) in 
the early stages of their doctorate. In parallel, we are also 
implementing strategic measures to support collaboration 
between doctoral students and supervisors.
  We are intensifying our support for early-career researchers, 
with particular emphasis on diversifying internal research 
funding instruments and providing sufficient funding for the 
ETH Postdoctoral Fellowship programme. These funding 
instruments help us recruit outstanding postdoctoral talent.
  We are improving the onboarding of new postdocs through 
various events and training courses and are expanding our 
supervising and mentoring initiatives. We are paying special 
attention to promoting career development via events that are 
tailored to postdocs. We train supervisors and raise their 
awareness of the challenges that are common for academics 
on the postdoc level.
  We are encouraging and devising concepts for mobility within 
ETH as a development opportunity for interested members of 
staff.Postdoctoral researchers
Early-career researchers can take several paths: 
they can pursue academic careers with the goal of 
becoming a professor, aim for permanent employ -
ment within a research group, or take on demand -
ing positions outside of academia. Early-career 
researchers in many disciplines decide on their 
future path during their time as post docs.
Because the post doc phase is a major bottleneck 
in the academic career trajectory, it is a time of 
great uncertainty for many early-career research -
ers. At the same time, employment opportunities 
outside academia are limited for post docs. Bearing 
in mind the heterogeneity of post docs as a group, 
we are sy stematically expanding our mentoring 
and development efforts for young scientists in 
this phase of their career. We are providing stra -
tegic continuing education and advice to support 
postdocs in choosing the right career path at an 
early stage: either quickly working to carve out the 
kind of academic independence required for an 
academic career or trying to establish themselves 
in the job market outside of the university. Here 
we will also need to raise awareness of alterna -
tive career paths and to support post docs during 
transition phases.
Administrative and technical staff
Having qualified administrative and technical 
staff with extensive specialised knowledge is key 
to ETH’s success. Our staff contributes greatly 
to achieving excellence in research and teaching.
We are also an important training centre 
for vocational and professional education. ETH 
trains over 170 apprentices in a wide variety of 
professions, which helps Switzerland maintain its 
ability to compete as an attractive place to work.51   Enabling  strategies
52   Enabling  strategies
Leadership and good governance
Objectives
1 We are developing the leadership skills of our managers and 
academic departments. Leadership skills are systematically 
taken into account as part of the appointment process for new 
professors and as part of the tenure process.
2 We are strengthening our career development system in order 
to identify suitable candidates for managerial posts and stra-
tegically develop them via training and mentoring programmes.
3 With regard to corporate governance, we are adjusting struc-
tures, planning processes and decision-making processes in 
order to establish leadership as a pillar of ETH Zurich and its 
culture.
Measures and initiatives
  Leadership skills and social skills are evaluation criteria con-
sidered by professorial appointment committees. They shape 
the committee’s recommendation to the President, along with 
consideration of the candidate’s excellence in teaching and 
research. When interviewing candidates, we also conduct sep -
arate panels with students and lecturers.
  After professors are appointed, we have various measures in 
place to introduce them to the ETH culture and their new man-
agement responsibilities. These measures are complemented 
by coaching and training programmes.
  Leadership skills and behaviour are aspects that are also 
increasingly taken into account during the tenure process. We 
offer leadership workshops to professors to help them with 
recruiting, supervising and mentoring doctoral students. 
  We identify potential managers at an early stage. We are 
strengthening our training and mentoring courses and offering 
them to all managers commensurate with their level. 
  We are expanding our contact and advice services for inappro-
priate behaviour by hiring more staff and bringing internal and 
external experts on board where necessary.Employees at all levels of our university are 
skilled and responsible. They deliver top perform -
ance in teaching, research, knowledge transfer 
and administrative functions. Students, staff and 
managers interact on a basis of tru st, openness 
and respect. Our managers sustain and promote 
their employees’ motivation and allow them to 
achieve top performance in their fields by giving 
them trust and autonomy on the job.
We cultivate a culture of empowerment and 
trust and make space for curiosity and creativity. 
This is our way of promoting critical thinking and 
empowering students and staff to develop and 
implement innovative ideas that arise at the fore-
front of current knowledge. Leadership respon -
sibilities also include teaching good  scientific 
practice.
This is why we provide targeted training and 
support to staff and researchers in leadership 
positions. We are extending the Executive Board 
by creating a new Vice President for Personnel 
Development and Leadership in order to cement 
leadership as an institutional value. 
ETH has a code of conduct that guides how 
members of the ETH community should inter -
act and sets out the values that the university 
stands for. 
53   Enabling  strategies
International networks, partnerships and alumni
Objectives
1 We are strengthening our international networks and visibility 
through a collaborative approach to research. We are mem -
bers of selected alliances and partnerships that generate 
added value for the entire university.
2 We promote top performance in research by working together 
with other researchers with complementary abilities. This 
 primarily occurs through interactions among researchers 
themselves, thanks to their efforts to continually develop 
research collaborations with global partners.
3 We enter into partnerships with leading universities and 
up-and-coming institutions in order to provide mutually bene-
ficial student exchange opportunities. We ensure that our 
 students gain experience in a variety of cultural environments 
while also receiving an excellent education in their chosen 
field.
4 We are increasing our involvement in Asia, with a special focus 
on China, and are using our strong established presence in 
Singapore as a springboard. 
5 We are expanding our international alumni network and 
strengthening their impact as ambassadors and supporters 
for ETH on a global stage.
Measures and initiatives
  We aim to advance our international collaboration activities by 
developing and strengthening our networks – particularly 
those in Europe, North America and Asia, while also looking 
towards developments in Africa. By expanding and consolidat -
ing the Singapore-ETH Centre, we will solidify our hub for 
research and innovation in Asia.
  We work with organisations and platforms that have strong 
international networks with the aim of boosting ETH’s visibility 
on the international stage, recruiting talented people, and 
securing access to funding.
  Switzerland’s neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe 
remain our most important partners for collaborative research 
and for recruiting students, researchers and professors.
  In North America, we are focusing on building and developing 
relationships with universities, businesses in the tech and 
start-up space, and philanthropists.
  We are raising our profile in Asia in order to recruit the best 
minds. In parallel, we are strengthening our intercultural 
knowledge and skills in order to facilitate our work with Asian 
partners. Thanks to selected partnerships and our role as the 
leading house for Switzerland’s bilateral cooperation with the 
Asia-Pacific region (on behalf of SERI, the State Secretariat for 
Education, Research and Innovation), we are enjoying 
increased access to data, infrastructure and funding in Asia 
for our research and education activities.
  We will further develop our global alumni chapters and mobil -
ise our alumni to build new relationships in research and 
 private industry, intensify exchange, and create opportunities 
for our students.Our international involvement permeates all our 
activities, ranging from training and research to 
collaboration with alumni and partners all around 
the globe. We are in a position to support indi -
vidual faculty members’ initiatives thanks to our 
established presence in Singapore and other stra -
tegic partnerships and alliances. Our researchers 
and students work with partners across national 
borders, and the impact of our research enjoys 
international visibility. Our global network con -
sists of universities and research centres, busi -
ness partners, international organisations, NGOs 
and the media and includes thousands of people 
all around the world. Our alumni, scientists and 
friends use their personal and professional net -
works on behalf of ETH, expanding our visibility 
and reach on a global level.
From a national perspective, one of 
ETH Zurich’s key tasks is strengthening Switzer -
land’s international reputation in education, sci -
ence and technology. As a leading member of the 
international academic community, we are in an 
excellent position to do so. We are  internationally 
recognised for innovative, original research and 
excellent education with global reach. We define 
our goals and measures in the context of the glo-
balisation of science, economics, politics and 
society.
Our current collaboration with universities 
in Asia is wide-ranging and successful but suf -
fers from being rather fragmented. Cooperation 
with traditional partner countries such as Japan 
and Singapore – along with our st eadily growing 
cooperation with Chinese partners – is greatly 
important to us. It is therefore necessary to have 
a strategic long-term approach in order to build 
effective and mutually beneficial relationships 
with our partners in Asia.
54   Enabling  strategies
Infrastructure and resources 
 Objectives
1 We offer modern, cost-effective, needs-based, coordinated 
assistance for teaching, research, and knowledge exchange 
and technology transfer.
2 We aim to maintain and expand our excellent and flexible 
infrastructure and manage growth via the use of modern 
technologies.
3 We adhere to the principles of sustainable development by 
using our financial resources responsibly and by taking the 
environment and resource use into consideration when con -
structing, using and operating buildings.
4 We are advancing the digital transformation of the university 
and are actively accompanying all members of the ETH com -
munity on this journey.
5 We live by the principles of a responsible culture of health and 
safety.Credibility requires us to live up to our principles. 
For this reason, we fost er a general culture of sus -
tainability at ETH and apply these principles to 
sustainable construction on our campuses. We 
offer our university as a living lab to test the tech -
nical, social and economic aspects of sustainable 
development and integrate them into our daily 
lives. This extends to the entirety of research, 
teaching and employment operations at ETH. By 
constructing and operating su stainable buildings, 
we are able to promote the health, performance 
and satisfaction of our students and staff. Infra -
structure that is planned, built and maintained 
according to these principles is a form of valuable 
capital over the longer term. With the help of 
innovative modern technology, we are creating 
an efficient, flexible and secure working environ -
ment to meet the needs of everyone at ETH.
Our real estate is a flexible strategic resource 
that allows us to fulfil our core missions in teach -
ing, research, knowledge exchange and technol -
ogy transfer. We expand our real est ate based 
on future academic development, the principles 
of sustainability, and the maintenance of our 
 inve stments.
ETH’s space needs are growing and constantly 
changing. Drivers of this trend include the grow -
ing number of students and staff, along with 
academic planning needs. There is mounting 
pressure on infrastructure, spatial development 
and services. This pressure is due to internal 
and societal needs with regard to teaching and 
research with new technologies, new research 
priorities, and new research locations.
The digitalisation of all research areas is 
 creating more demand for computing power and 
requires the ongoing expansion of our data infra -
structure in order to remain globally competi -
tive. The advent of digital technologies has also 
transformed teaching. New teaching and learn -
ing methods require an innovative and attract -
ive learning infrastructure as well as access to 
 cutting-edge information technology. The learn -
ing spaces of the future must therefore be flex -
ible enough to adapt to changing needs and new 
technologies.
As digitalisation increasingly penetrates our 
society and research becomes more and more 
interdisciplinary, it is more important than ever 
to have a lively real-life community. For this rea -
son, we see our campuses as a place of formal and 
informal exchange between various disciplines 
and the public. We invite stakeholders from soci -
ety at large to participate in an active dialogue 
55   Enabling  strategies
Measures and initiatives
  We will continue expanding teaching infrastructure and ser -
vices with a particular emphasis on online exams, modern 
lecture hall infrastructure, rooms for project-based teaching, 
and support for interdisciplinary collaboration.
  As part of our real estate strategy, we will continue developing 
our portfolio, especially on the Zentrum and Hönggerberg cam -
puses at our main Zurich site. Our strategy is to maximise 
building density at our current locations before expanding to 
new sites. We are accommodating our rapid growth by enter -
ing into short-term rental arrangements, which gives us the 
flexibility to react quickly to unforeseen developments. We are 
developing ways to ensure that there is enough office space 
even in the face of limited financial resources. Our real estate 
planners are working to define space requirements, maximise 
density within buildings, and draw up plans such as desk 
 sharing and multi-space concepts along with other forms of 
agile working (mix of teleworking and on-site presence). This 
type of planning also applies to the academic departments.
  We are making advances in digital transformation, data sci -
ence, research data management, open access and open data 
with IT infrastructure that is stable, scalable and operates 
under reasonable security conditions. We are increasing our 
computing power to meet demand in a cost-effective way. 
A harmonised approach to hardware and software helps our 
employees get the job done.
  When it comes to our library’s large, valuable holdings and 
collections, we adhere to open science principles and are using 
the opportunities presented by digital transformation in order 
to create added value for research, teaching and dialogue with 
the public. One example is the development of new innovative 
models of information management at the ETH Library Lab. We 
efficiently tailor what our library and collections offer based 
on the needs of our clients. For this reason, we are focusing on 
the following three priorities: consistent client focus, holistic 
client support, and the establishment of an integrated platform 
for information, communication, services and tools.
  We offer tailored, future-oriented courses and consulting ser -
vices on safety and security issues in order to help people take 
a conscious approach to risks in their teaching, research and 
work activities. We are developing evidence-based risk reduc-
tion measures with regard to accident prevention and health 
protection.with the ETH community and support these con -
versations as an integral part of our real estate and 
service strategy. We initiate a broad spectrum of 
social and cultural activities and strive to involve 
the broader population in ETH’s campuses and 
services through active communication, tours, 
events, and other information and discussion 
sessions.
Safety and security are fundamental parts of 
the ETH Zurich culture. All members of the ETH 
community identify with a culture of safety and 
security that spans the spectrum from legal com -
pliance to workplace safety. 

57   ETH Zurich: more than the sum of its parts
In the spirit of the adage “the whole is more than just the sum of  
its parts”, ETH Zurich bundles and leverages its individual strengths 
in order to face the global challenges of the future. Thanks to our 
combination of basic research and interdisciplinary collaboration  
in strategic action areas, we are able to drive research forward  
in service of society. We also follow this principle when it comes to 
teaching, combining knowledge from various disciplines in order 
to provide our students with a well-rounded education. This is an 
important contribution to helping society meet the growing need for 
qualified graduates. 
Even this strategy document was created in the tradition of  
ETH Zurich’s participative culture: it is the result of a broad, bottom-up  
process that involved the Strategy Commission, the four university 
groups (faculty, non-professorial scientific staff, students, and tech-
nical and administrative staff), and the academic departments.  
 The process of drafting our strategy for the 2021–2024 period helped  
us analyse the landscape in which ETH is embedded along with the 
opportunities and challenges that the future will bring. This involved 
critical discussion between all stakeholders throughout the univer  -
sity as well as an internal consultation process. Thanks to the reflection   
and participation of the entire ETH community, we were able to 
develop a strategy that reflects the true complexity and diversity of 
our institution – showing that ETH Zurich is indeed more than just  
the sum of its parts.
Publisher:  ETH Zurich
Design and collages:  Vollkorn Kollektiv
Content and concept:  Joël Mesot, 
Sarah Springman, Detlef Günther, 
Robert Perich, Ueli Weidmann
Strategy Commission:  Micha Bigler, 
Johann Blatter, Joachim Buhmann,  
Adrienne Grêt-Regamey,  
Andreas Hierlemann, Zoe Marie Jonassen, 
Georg von Krogh, Ulrike Kutay,  
Sacha Menz, Lukas Novotny,  
Frank Schimmelfennig,  
Effy Vayena, Angelika Wittek
Authors: Julie Cantalou, Christ ofer Hierold, 
Anita Buchli, Roman Klinger
With contributions from: Silvio Bonaccio, 
Christine Bratrich, Jürg Brunnschweiler, 
Simone Bucher, Katharina Hagenauer, 
Anders Hagström, Johannes Heck, 
Fiona Könz, Gertrud Lindner, Daniel Müller, 
Sonja Negovetic, Christ oph Niedermann, 
Katharina Poiger, Adrian Rohner, 
Robert Schikowski, Stephan Zimmermann, 
Marc Zürcher
Editing: Sabine Goldhahn
English translation: Gena Olson
Printing: Kromer Print AG
Binding:  Buchbinderei Grollimund AG
Circulation: 1,200
This report has been produced in German  
and translated into English.  
Only the German version is binding.
Images for the collages: ETH Zurich, 
iStock, Alamy, depositphotos, gettyimages, 
sketchfab (3dmast er_bg); 3D renderings on 
pages 34 and 46: Vollkorn Kollektiv
© ETH Zurich, January 2021
To order copies: ETH Zurich,  
office-president@ethz.ch
Contact: ETH Zurich, President’s Office,  
office-president@ethz.ch


