THE 2025 AGENDA
“since neither birth nor fortune have favoured me,
MY ACTIONS SHALL SPEAK TO THE WORLD”
- Matthew Flinders
Ngaiyirda karralika kawingka tikainga yara kumarninthi. 
When the outer world and the sky connect with the water the two become one.
2
We live in an era of disruptive change 
in which the pace of technological innovation is remarkable. Unprecedented access to information is redefining the ways we live, learn and work. As a university, we must rise to the challenge of preparing our graduates for success in a future that will be every bit as dynamic and unpredictable as it is exciting.This means challenging traditional paradigms and embracing the emerging 
opportunities. Challenging times require 
courage, vision and purpose, all of which have been hallmarks of Flinders since its inception 50 years ago. Our namesake, Matthew Flinders, was a man of purpose. When asked why he chose to embark on his incredible voyage of discovery he responded, “I have too much ambition to rest in the unnoticed middle order of mankind”. He was also a man who believed in the importance of actions that “speak to the world” and this commitment is reflected in our new Strategic Plan Making a Difference – the 2025 Agenda.
It sets out an ambitious vision for Flinders University. One that will harness disruptive technologies and chart a course that takes us to the top 10 of Australian universities and the top one percent in the world.  Achieving our vision requires strong financial foundations, a shared sense 
of purpose and a common set of values 
upon which to build. From these arise the four pillars of our Plan, namely People and Culture, Research, Education, and 
Engagement and Impact.  The Plan 
puts People and Culture first since our 
collective success depends upon the achievements of our people, and it is our culture that will sustain that success into the future. 
In Research our aim is to be a world 
leader, contributing knowledge, 
understanding and practical solutions that will improve lives and benefit society. In Education, our paramount focus on 
student success will be a distinguishing feature of the Flinders Experience.  
On the road to success, the journey  
itself matters.  We are therefore committed to fostering a vibrant and engaging university 
experience including a new student 
village as a focal point for a residential experience that complements the learning environment. 
Productive Engagement will be required 
across a range of networks for us to create the Impact that is core to our mission of changing lives and changing the world. We will celebrate diversity, 
strengthen community and government 
relationships, and expand our global reach through high quality international partnerships. Closer to home we will embrace our role as a catalyst in the knowledge economy, adding value through collaborations with business, industry and entrepreneurs to stimulate economic growth and bring about positive societal change. Implementing our vision requires a set of specific metrics against which to monitor 
progress. These will be applied throughout 
our organisational structures so that all staff can see how their own efforts contribute towards our vision. These metrics will be complemented by  
a Planning and Accountability cycle that will enable us to recognise achievement and modulate plans to promote continuous improvement.
A shared sense of purpose, together with 
a common set of values, is fundamental to a successful culture. Following university-wide consultation with staff and students, four core values have emerged – Integrity, 
Courage, Innovation and Excellence, and above all an ethos that is Student Centred. We will continue to consult with 
staff and students as we articulate how these values will manifest in our day-to-day experiences at Flinders.  I believe that Matthew Flinders would  
be proud of the achievements made  
by this University in the 50 years since  
its creation. Making a Difference will  
build on that legacy, ensuring that we continue to inspire achievement in the decades ahead.
Colin J Stirling 
Vice-Chancellor
THE 2025 AGENDA
“I have too much ambition to rest in the 
unnoticed middle order of mankind.” 
- Matthew Flinders
EXPERIMENT AND  
EXPERIMENT BRAVELY.
FOUNDING VICE-CHANCELLOR 
PROFESSOR PETER KARMEL
4
To be internationally recognised as a 
world leader in research, an innovator 
in contemporary education, and  
the source of Australia’s most 
enterprising graduates.VISION
Changing lives and changing the world.MISSION
Flinders at Tonsley innovation hub
6
THE 2025 AGENDA
Our Values 
and Ethos• Focus on student success
• Empower students as partners
• Encourage the student voice
• Provide timely and  
 meaningful feedback
• Celebrate student  
 achievementSTUDENT CENTRED
• Maintain the highest  
 professional and ethical  
 standards at all times
• Be accountable for our actions  
 and follow through on our  
 commitments
• Embrace diversity and promote  
 equity, inclusion and social  
 responsibility
• Treat others with courtesy  
 and respect 
• Foster a safe and healthy  
 environment for work and studyINTEGRITY
• Trust and empower
• Seize opportunities and  
 embrace change
• Learn from experience
• Be open and transparent in  
 our communications
• Pursue critical and open inquiry
COURAGE
• Solve problems by  
 “thinking outside the box”
• Promote personal enterprise  
 and creativity
• Encourage teamwork and  
 collaboration
• Be responsive and innovative  
 when faced with new  
 challenges
• Actively engage with  
 business and industry
INNOVATION
• Strive for excellence in  
 every endeavour
• Commit to quality and  
 continuous improvement
• Celebrate our achievements
• Deliver exceptional levels  
 of service
• Develop future leaders
EXCELLENCE
Our core values and ethos 
will be the foundation for our success.
The values of 
Integrity, 
Courage, Innovation and 
Excellence , along with the 
underlying ethos of being 
Student Centred ,  
will together underpin  
our decision-making  
and culture.
8
INSPIRING
AMBITIOUS
successstudent 
Flinders University’s heritage of quality, 
independence and excellence will continue to be a source of strength and competitive advantage. Making 
a Difference builds on these strong foundations and aims to secure our place as a world-leading university.
Our paramount focus on student 
success will be a distinguishing feature of the Flinders Experience and will be the measure by which we judge the impact of innovations in teaching and student support.
New specialist academic roles will 
enhance our capacity to deliver exceptional educational programs and provide a career path for the finest educators. These new roles will enable us to increase our investment in outstanding research, building critical mass, and developing research leaders of the future. 
Professional staff will contribute to 
our vision by delivering agile systems, processes and functions that facilitate and enhance our academic mission.We will champion diversity and equality of opportunity, respecting peoples from all nations, cultures and backgrounds. 
We will welcome our engagement with 
external stakeholders, and cultivate effective partnerships in ways that reflect our obligation of service to our community and to society more broadly.
Our future success will rely on dynamic 
staff, ready to embrace the challenges and opportunities presented in a rapidly changing environment. It requires a 
culture of trust and empowerment, built 
on the bedrock of common values and a shared sense of purpose.
Together we will meet the challenges 
of a globally competitive environment by maintaining an uncompromising commitment to excellence in everything that we do.People are the heart of our University and it is the sum of their achievements that 
will deliver our vision and future success. Our culture must support and encourage those achievements and must value the positive contributions made by staff, students, alumni and council. Above all, we must always seek to inspire and enable the achievements of others. People  
and Culture
Flinders University will:  THE 2025 AGENDA
Promote an agile, enterprising 
and accountable culture in which staff and students are committed to excellence and determined to make a difference
Engage students as partners in the co-creation of a learning experience that inspires achievement
Champion diversity and create 
a vibrant, inclusive and values-based community that makes Flinders the destination of choice for students and staff
Tonsley image
discovery
EXCELLENCE
INDUSTRY 
FOCUSEDResearch and creative endeavour have 
been core to Flinders University’s identity since inception.
We will increase our research intensity 
through targeted investment in areas with potential for significant impact.   
Flinders will proactively engage with business, industry, government and non-government organisations to deliver outcomes that promote economic development and change lives for  
the better. 
We will maximise our ability to translate 
research into innovations for industry and society by commercialising our intellectual property, driving improvements in public policy, and improving professional and personal practices. 
The impact of our research will further 
build our global reputation and create opportunities for strategic international collaborations with high quality partners in academia and industry.
Our research-based students will be 
equipped at the highest level in their discipline. They will be provided with opportunities to gain experience in business, industry, government and 
community sectors. Developing personal 
enterprise and transferable skills will unlock career opportunities well beyond their specific areas of expertise.
Flinders’ research will be carried out at the 
highest levels of ethical standards.10
The achievements of our researchers will determine our 
international standing among the world’s universities and deliver outcomes that make our world a better place.Research
Flinders University will:
Be a community of outstanding 
scholars engaged in world-leading research that extends the boundaries of knowledge
Address challenges of local, 
national and global significance to deliver outcomes that change lives for the better
Embed research and critical 
thinking as core skills for every Flinders graduateTHE 2025 AGENDA
“Experiment and experiment bravely.”
Founding Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Karmel
global citizens
12
Innovative courses will be led by 
inspirational teachers, supported  
by advanced learning technologies,  
to create a learning experience that is flexible, richly interactive and highly personalised. 
Our teaching will embed in every 
degree program research opportunities that nurture the creativity and critical-thinking skills that will be determinants of success in an information-rich world. 
Our clear focus on student success 
will distinguish Flinders and empower 
students to achieve to the very best of their abilities, irrespective of their background or individual circumstances. 
The Flinders Experience will provide 
work-integrated learning opportunities and a thriving international mobility program that will enhance personal enterprise and intercultural skills development, enriching the educational experience.
Flinders graduates will be equipped 
to make a difference in the world as respectful and ethical global citizens. 
The achievements of our students and 
alumni will be the measure by which our 
success as a provider of world-class 
education will be judged.Flinders University will develop creative, enterprising, 
career-ready graduates prepared to become lifelong contributors to society.Education
Flinders University will:
 Deliver a richly interactive 
and personalised approach to learning with a paramount focus on student success
Be an international leader 
in educational innovation, advanced learning technologies and learning analytics
Develop enterprising graduates 
equipped with the skills required for success in the knowledge economyTHE 2025 AGENDA
rich new opportunities and experiences.Flinders journey are rewarded withThose who embark on the
CULTURALLY 
AWARE
LEADERS
THOUGHT
14
collaborative
ENTERPRISINGMaking a Difference requires that 
our actions have impact whether at local, national or international levels. Maximising that impact requires effective engagement. This means that we  
listen and we deliver, tackling  
real-world problems and delivering  
effective solutions.
Our courses will be informed by the 
needs of business, industry, healthcare and other public sectors to deliver graduates who meet the requirements  
of tomorrow’s workforce.
Our campus environment will be 
a catalyst for collaboration and engagement. We will invest in infrastructure that enhances our community and creates a precinct  
for innovation, enterprise and  
economic growth.
Our fundamental research will deliver 
outcomes that change the way in which we understand the world around us.  
Our knowledge and expertise will also be applied in areas that deliver practical and economic benefits for social good. Our focus on personal enterprise and work-integrated learning will enhance graduate employability and serve as a vehicle for forming sustainable partnerships with business, industry and other sectors. 
Our commitment to education, health 
and wellbeing in the Northern Territory, and other regional, rural and remote communities, will continue to embody our mission of Making a Difference.
We will engage with Indigenous 
Australians, students, staff and the 
community to respect Indigenous knowledge systems and perspectives, and to progress Indigenous advancement in education, research, employment  
and wellbeing. 
The achievements of our staff, students 
and alumni will be celebrated and communicated to the wider community. 
Flinders University has a large and 
growing body of alumni across Australia and beyond; we will create and enable opportunities for our community to contribute to our ongoing success. 
By providing thought leadership on 
matters of local, national and international 
significance, Flinders will grow in profile 
and reputation, with an increased  
ability to speak to the world and make  
a positive difference.14
Our active engagement with business, industry, government and the community 
is central to our mission to improve lives and to address the needs of society. Effective communication and productive partnerships will expand our capacity to address the significant economic, scientific and social challenges of our age.Engagement  
and Impact
Flinders University will:
 Promote productive partnerships 
that mobilise our intellectual capabilities to create economic opportunities and drive positive societal benefits
Expand our global reach 
through high quality international collaborations in both research and education
Engage our alumni as powerful 
advocates for the University and as role models for current studentsTHE 2025 AGENDA
15
Four pillars of People and Culture, Research, 
Education, and Engagement and Impact will guide 
the strategic decision-making and development of 
organisational strategy and business planning at Flinders University for the next decade.
Building on a foundation of shared values and 
financial sustainability, the Strategic Plan will introduce a Planning and Accountability cycle to 
measure and support progress.  Performance indicators (KPIs) and targets at the 
University Operational Plan level will cascade to 
Faculty, School and Divisional plans each with 
agreed KPIs and specific strategic initiatives.
Internationalisation is integrated in everything 
we do and provides the means by which we can 
extend our global reach. THE 2025 AGENDA
FLINDERS UNIVERSITY OPERATIONAL PLAN AND KPIsFACULTY AND PORTFOLIO PLANS
FIVE YEAR PLAN •  KPIs AND METRICS
ANNUAL SCHOOL AND BUSINESS OPERATIONAL PLANSOUR PEOPLE
STRATEGIC PLANFINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
PLANNING AND ACCOUNTABILITY CYCLE
MISSION:
Changing lives and changing the world.Integrated Internationalisation
VISION:
To be internationally recognised as a world leader in research,  
an innovator in contemporary education, and the source of Australia’s  
most enterprising graduates.
OUR VALUES AND ETHOS
PEOPLE  
AND CULTURE
RESEARCH
ENGAGEMENT  
AND IMPACT
EDUCATIONThe Strategic Plan Architecture
2025.flinders.edu.au
For further information please contact:
Office of Communication and Engagement
E: comms@flinders.edu.au
2025.flinders.edu.au
CRICOS no: 00114A
