2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN1
FLORIDA STATE
UNIVERSITY
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN2
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 3
FIRST STANDALONE 
COLLEGE OF 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
in the nation
Letter from President McCullough
Strategic Opportunities
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN
GOAL 1: Research & Academic Excellence
GOAL 2: Student Success
GOAL 3: Entrepreneurial Spirit
GOAL 4: Inclusive Excellence
GOAL 5: Institutional Brand Excellence
Board of Governors Matrix
Mission and VisionHIGHEST AMOUNT OF 
NATIONAL SCIENCE 
FOUNDATION (NSF)
RESEARCH FUNDING 
in the state
WORLD-CLASS EDUCATION 
FOR THE BEST VALUE
FSU is ranked the highest 
Best Value College  in Florida928 STUDENT AND 
GRADUATE STARTUPS
through the Jim Moran 
College of Entrepreneurship 
and InNOLEvation
04
06
12
16
18
20
21
22
23
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY OUR TIME IS NOW
74% 85% 94%
4-YEAR 
GRADUATION RATE6-YEAR  
GRADUATION RATEFRESHMAN 
RETENTION RATEHOME TO THE ONL Y 
NATIONAL LABORATORY
in Florida - The MagLab
20 FSU graduate programs 
and specialties in the  
TOP 25 AMONG PUBLIC 
UNIVERSITIES
Florida State University won the 
2021 DEGREE COMPLETION AWARD 
from the APLU - the most prominent award 
in the country for student success  AMONG THE BEST IN THE NATION FOR
STUDENT SUCCESS
Nationally recognized support for first-generation college 
students who may face unique challenges in college 
because of educational or economic circumstances through 
FSU Center for Academic Retention & Enhancement (CARE)

We have a bold vision for Florida State University 
that goes well beyond becoming a Top 10 public 
university and AAU member institution. We are 
reimagining how a top university can harness 
research, innovation and entrepreneurial spirit 
to build a better future for the state, nation and 
world.
For 172 years, our faculty, students, alumni, 
donors, leaders and community have built the 
foundation to get us to this moment. 
Our strengths make Florida State University 
uniquely poised to continue our rise as one 
of the best universities in the nation—and our 
strategic plan outlines how we’ll get there. We’ve 
set ambitious goals for research and academic 
excellence, student success, entrepreneurship 
and innovation, inclusion and elevating our brand.
Together, we will make sure this great university 
is even better tomorrow than it is today.
OUR TIME IS NOW.
Richard D. McCullough A MESSAGE FROM 
THE PRESIDENT 
Public University
2020-2023
TOP
20
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN 5
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN6
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 7
STRATEGIC 
OPPORTUNITIES

2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN8
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 9
What is FSU Health?
FSU Health aims to transform the future of health care in 
North Florida and beyond. This bold initiative will stand 
up two new partner sites in Tallahassee and Panama 
City by 2025 and combines three critical elements:
 ■Health education and training of next generation 
health care leaders, especially in the areas of 
population health, health disparities, aging, and 
wellness
 ■Research that leads to solutions-based innovation 
with key partners including Tallahassee Memorial 
HealthCare, Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Capital 
Health Plan (CHP) and Hospital Corporation of 
America (HCA)
 ■Quality clinical care informed by the latest in health 
care technology and delivery methods 
What makes FSU Health different?
Our approach combines important research, health 
education, and patient care in the region, which will 
improve access and health outcomes for all.Every county in the Florida Panhandle 
has residents in federally designated 
medically underserved areas. 
Significant population growth over the 
past several years has further stressed 
the region’s limited health resources. 
This leads to lack of access and 
results in unhealthier residents, shorter 
life expectancies and significant 
economic burdens on communities.  
FSU Health is uniquely positioned to 
serve this region and improve the lives 
of Floridians who live there. STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES
FSU Health will work with patients across a broad spectrum of specialties, 
transforming how our community accesses world-class health care and 
measurably improving health outcomes in the region. STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES
Florida has only one AAU institution, 
despite being the country’s third 
largest state and #1 state in the 
nation for higher education. Central to the FSU Strategic Plan is to gain membership in the 
Association of American Universities (AAU), an elite group of 
America’s leading research universities. 
A university must meet high standards to 
be invited into the AAU, including:
 ■Competitively funded federal research grants
 ■Faculty awards, fellowships and memberships in the 
national academies
 ■Strong focus on producing doctoral degrees and 
postdoctoral appointments
 ■Undergraduate achievement
FSU has made significant progress across AAU metrics.
Extensive and growing research portfolio—with 
a goal of exceeding $500M annually in research 
expenditures
Strong academic trajectory
Leadership in health and other issues affecting 
rural and underrepresented populations
60 highly recognized research organizations 
including: 
National High Magnetic Field 
Laboratory
Center for Ocean-Atmospheric 
Prediction Studies (COAPS)
Center for Resilient 
Infrastructure and Disaster 
Response (RIDER) 
Learning Systems Institute (LSI)Center for Advanced Power 
Systems (CAPS)
Geophysical Fluid Dynamics 
Institute
Florida Center for Reading 
Research (FCRR)
FSU Institute on Digital Health 
and Innovation (IDHI) Historically, AAU membership wasn’t 
possible for an institution like FSU 
with a distributed primary medicine 
program. However, with recent 
legislative investments, especially in 
FSU Health, Florida State University 
is now better positioned than ever to 
deliver the state of Florida’s second 
institution in the AAU.AAU’s 65 research universities, of 
which 35 are public, secure roughly 
65% of all federal research and 
development funding.WHY IT MATTERSWHY IT MATTERS
GO DEEPER
POSITIONING OURSELVES FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN 
UNIVERSITIES (AAU)RESEARCH, EDUCATION AND PATIENT CARE
FSU HEALTH WILL IMPROVE HEALTH 
OUTCOMES—AND CHANGE LIVES
FSU is well-poised for AAU membership
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN10
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 11
2023-2027 
STRATEGIC PLAN
GOALSEXPANDING RESEARCH 
 AND ACADEMIC 
EXCELLENCE
ENSURING STUDENT 
SUCCESS ON CAMPUS 
AND BEYOND
NURTURING AND 
INSPIRING FSU’S 
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT
COMMITTING TO 
INCLUSIVE EXCELLENCE 
AND CIVIL DISCOURSE   
ENHANCING OUR 
BRAND TO REFLECT 
INSTITUTIONAL 
EXCELLENCE 

2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN12
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 13
The National High 
Magnetic Field 
Laboratory
FSU catalyzes transformative 
innovation, discovery, scholarship, 
and creative endeavors through the 
excellence of its faculty, students, 
and staff. By investing broadly 
across the university and deepening 
our collaborations with external 
partners, we will amplify our impact 
in assessing and solving the critical 
challenges facing our local, national, 
and global communities.OBJECTIVES 
Increase the recruitment, development, 
and retention of high-impact, nationally 
and internationally recognized faculty to 
strategically maximize FSU’s potential across 
all disciplines
FSU will expand recruitment and retention of 
high-impact, highly accomplished, innovative 
and engaged faculty across all disciplines 
to build on current academic and research 
strengths and foster connections throughout 
the university and with our external partners.Catalyze translational scholarship, arts, and 
research that will address grand challenges and 
enrich people’s lives
FSU will invest in basic research, scholarship, 
artistic creation and mechanisms necessary to 
enhance translation of research and creative 
works into innovative and impactful solutions 
that will benefit mankind now and well into the 
future. FSU will intensify efforts to recognize 
and promote multidisciplinary teams of 
internal and external partners to transcend and 
transform traditional disciplines to uncover new 
insights and address some of society’s grand 
challenges. 
Expand and promote the arts, performance, 
humanities, and creative activities of our 
faculty and staff
The humanities and fine and performing 
arts distinguish FSU from many of its peer 
institutions. FSU will continue to expand and 
invest in its fine and performing arts excellence. 
In addition, faculty across all disciplines and 
professions will be encouraged to engage 
colleagues and students in cross-disciplinary 
creative activities that promote scholarship and 
innovation.
Build upon and create graduate opportunities 
that transcend and transform traditional 
disciplines
FSU will promote the development of new 
graduate training opportunities and expansion 
and retooling of existing programs to meet 
strategic needs, especially at the doctoral 
level. These programs should promote the 
coalescence of pedagogy and research 
experiences from multiple disciplines to 
better prepare our students to solve research 
challenges and to be future leaders.STRATEGIC SPOTLIGHT
EXPANDING RESEARCH & 
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCEThe National MagLab, funded by the National 
Science Foundation and the State of Florida, is 
on the front lines of the worldwide technology 
race. The MagLab, the sole national lab 
in the state of Florida, is the largest and 
highest-powered magnet lab in the world and 
represents the nation’s investment in magnetic 
technology.
The MagLab boasts a 45 tesla magnet. Today, 
the MagLab is the only place where researchers 
can use a magnet of such strength to identify 
scientific advances in health, materials science 
and energy.
Researchers visit from institutions around the 
world to use the lab’s world-record magnets. 
These institutions include:

2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN14
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 15FSU NURSING AWARDED $72.7M NIH 
GRANT TO LEAD ADOLESCENT HIV 
CLINICAL TRIAL NETWORKFSU Research Leads to 
Healthier Babies, Kids & TeensFSU STARTUP PRENA SHOWS PROMISE 
TO REDUCE PRETERM LABOR
NORMALIZING INFANT 
MENTAL HEALTHFSU RESEARCH LEADING THE WAY IN 
EARL Y DETECTION OF AUTISM AND 
ONLINE TRAININGSTRATEGIC SPOTLIGHT
In 2023, FSU Nursing was awarded a $72.7M NIH grant—believed 
to be the largest ever awarded by the NIH to a nursing school in the 
United States. FSU College of Nursing’s Dr. Lisa Hightow-Weidman 
will co-lead the collaborative research enterprise Adolescent 
Medicine Trials Network for HIV Interventions (ATN).
The CDC reports that youth 13 to 24 years of age accounted for 
21% of all new HIV diagnoses in the United States and dependent 
areas in 2018. ATN is the only domestic adolescent focused HIV 
network and is focused on reducing new HIV infections among 
adolescents and young adults and improving the continuum of 
care and health outcomes.The technology shines a low-intensity cerulean light into a 
woman’s eyes (through a sleep mask) to “shut off” preterm 
contractions and reduce preterm birth. Clinical trials begin in 2023 
in Miami and England.
While researching circadian rhythm, an FSU faculty member 
identified that the hormone melatonin acts upon receptors that 
form in the uterus immediately preceding labor, which starts 
contractions. By using light to down-regulate melatonin, Prena 
achieved 70% success stopping or reducing contractions to a safe 
level.
FSU faculty member and Center Director Mimi Graham leads a 
statewide infant mental health movement helping to build clinical 
capacity, co-founding the Florida Association for Infant Mental 
Health in 2000 and infusing infant mental health into programs 
across the state.
The foundation for lifelong mental health is nurtured from birth. To 
effectively address many of society’s most intractable problems 
like child maltreatment and substance abuse, we must help 
children to have stable nurturing childhoods and help heal those 
who haven’t had a good start.
Infant mental health is an emerging field of study based on 
neuroscience and science of attachment. Graham and her 
colleagues have presented at the World Infant Mental Health 
Conferences across the globe, sharing best practices for early 
intervention.Dr. Amy Wetherby and her team at FSU’s Autism Institute are 
identifying early signs of autism in children as young as 9 months, 
once thought to be impossible. Their new detection tool is part of 
a suite of research-based resources developed over nearly three 
decades. 
By identifying autism early, intervention can begin early, when the 
brain is developing the most rapidly and the environment has the 
greatest impact. With early diagnosis and intervention, the team 
believes most children with autism can be ready to go to regular 
kindergarten. But in the U.S., most autism is not discovered until 
the child is at least 4 or 5 years old, when the brain is already fairly 
set in its ways. 
The team turned their research findings into free, digital tools for parents, health care providers, and 
educators to track a child’s progress against key developmental milestones simply. New parents can 
register for Baby Navigator (BabyNavigator.com) to monitor progress, address concerns, and find 
resources. The team has also developed Autism Navigator (AutismNavigator.com)—a collection of 
online courses, webinars, and tools utilized by professionals and families in over 191 countries.
Fast Facts
 ■The U.S. average age for autism diagnosis is 4-5.
 ■Rural, low-income or minority children in the U.S. get diagnosed much later: average age 6-8.
 ■FSU has begun to identify autism as early as 9 months, equipping parents with tools to help their 
kids meet developmental and communications milestones—and changing their future.
STRATEGIC SPOTLIGHT
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN16
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 17
FSU’s student success initiatives 
lead the nation, providing students 
a uniquely engaging, challenging, 
and vibrant campus environment to 
help them grow to their full potential. 
By strengthening its programs and 
services that focus on the whole 
person, FSU can empower students 
to thrive at FSU and beyond. FSU will 
build upon world-class academic 
programs, hands-on experiences, 
and individualized academic support 
and wellness services. FSU’s goal 
is to have its graduates embrace 
a lifelong commitment to learning 
and well-being so they can compete, 
contribute, and lead anywhere.  OBJECTIVES 
Enhance curricular practices that foster 
engaged learning and robust outcomes
With world-class teaching, FSU will expand 
efforts to inspire and challenge students to 
fully engage in a curriculum that broadens 
their knowledge and builds the skills required 
for long-term success. By improving student 
completion rates in key courses and enacting 
early alert interventions, FSU will help students 
succeed in their enrolled courses. FSU will 
encourage students to progress effectively 
through their degree programs and to 
consider additional degree opportunities when 
appropriate.
2ENSURING STUDENT SUCCESS 
ON CAMPUS & BEYONDCreate an environment that encourages healthy 
behaviors and wellness
FSU recognizes student success is directly 
related to health, wellness, and resiliency. 
The university will encourage students to 
take advantage of a wide range of programs 
and services designed to promote healthy 
habits and navigate challenges, including 
physical, emotional, social, and financial. By 
using best practices and pursuing meaningful 
collaborations, FSU’s holistic and proactive 
approach will benefit students and lead to 
greater success in all areas. 
Expand and strengthen academic advising and 
student support services 
Academic advising and student support are 
critical in advancing students’ success. FSU 
will expand its advisor outreach and strengthen 
its use of technology to provide holistic and 
accessible academic support services for all. 
With required participation in meaningful, peer-
led first-year engagement experiences, including 
those designed around special populations, 
students will know they have a solid and 
capable support system – academic and 
otherwise – as they navigate FSU.
Bolster students’ co-curricular and career 
development opportunities 
FSU prioritizes developing the whole person 
through engagement opportunities that 
facilitate occupational, social, and intellectual 
wellness. Through co-curricular experiential 
learning, students will engage more deeply 
during college in immersive experiences that 
develop the knowledge and skills needed 
for lifelong learning and career success. On-
campus involvement, service and leadership 
opportunities and professional readiness 
initiatives will produce engaged, community-
minded students who are prepared for their 
post-graduation future.FSU’s CARE Program 
Her academic ambitions started early: In 
high school, she placed nationally in a Future 
Business Leaders of America competition and 
won a Hispanic Heritage Foundation Youth 
Award for entrepreneurship. Through dual 
enrollment, she earned an associate degree 
before graduating high school.
She said CARE drew her to FSU, all the way 
from Miami. She learned about its programs 
during virtual sessions with CARE students 
and one-on-one meetings with administrators.
The personal attention eased her concern 
about moving so far from home, she said.
“I just knew I was going to make it,” Matos 
said. “I felt like I was going to find a family in 
Tallahassee, to find a family within CARE.”
A sophomore marketing major, she also works 
part time on campus and serves as the public 
relations chair for the Hispanic/Latinx Student 
Union.
“It’s very exciting to be a first-generation 
college student. I love it,” Matos said. “I love 
being the first in my family to do many things. 
It’s a very empowering feeling.”
Stephanie Matos
STRATEGIC SPOTLIGHT
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN18
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 19
NURTURING AND INSPIRING 
FSU’S ENTREPRENEURIAL  
SPIRIT
3FSU will nurture the entrepreneurial 
spirit by generating support 
systems for creativity, innovation, 
translation, and growth, and inspiring 
transformational change. Building 
collaboration within its communities, 
FSU will lead innovative endeavors 
and launch entrepreneurial ventures 
targeted to fulfill the needs of those 
it serves, putting the people of 
Florida first, then reaching beyond, 
to the nation and the world. This 
entrepreneurial culture will lead FSU 
to realize its full potential of creativity, 
innovation, and entrepreneurship.
OBJECTIVES 
Cultivate an ecosystem that prioritizes 
and embraces creative, innovative, and 
entrepreneurial behavior in all endeavors
FSU will expand opportunities for students, 
faculty, and staff to evoke creativity, innovation, 
and entrepreneurship in scholarly activities, 
research, artistic endeavors, and institutional 
operations. FSU will develop policies and an 
environment where FSU and its community 
partners will collaborate to promote 
transformation and creation processes across 
all endeavors and in all disciplines.
Translate creative, innovative, and 
entrepreneurial ventures and endeavors for 
the public good via commercialization and 
collaboration
FSU will increase its capacity for 
transformational change by reimagining 
the technology transfer process and build 
advisory and support structures that will 
increase commercialization activities. We will 
encourage smart risk-taking behavior, eliminate 
unnecessary barriers, and engage with external 
partners in collaborative efforts that can best 
meet state, business, cultural, and societal 
needs. 
STRATEGIC SPOTLIGHT
FSU’s entrepreneurial environment has led 
to startups addressing serious challenges 
including ADHD, preterm birth, food shortages 
and farming, and youth reading.
And this has economic impact for the 
state—70% of startups born at FSU remained 
in Florida, fueling economic development and 
innovation in the state.
REMAINED IN FLORIDA OF STARTUPS 
BORN AT FSU 70%Entrepreneurship 
at FSU

2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN20
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 21
OBJECTIVES 
Improve efforts to expand diversity while 
creating rich experiences and opportunities 
for all populations within a respectful and 
united community  
FSU aims to develop an academic, 
administrative and social culture that serves 
and represents Florida and a culture of open 
and tolerant civil discourse that supports the 
Florida Board of Governors’ Statement of 
Free Expression. FSU will continue to build 
access to opportunities and experiences that 
will promote the personal attainments of all 
student, faculty, and staff populations and 
those in our communities. Increase international engagement and 
cultural competencies for students, faculty 
and staff
FSU will expand its reputation and reach 
as a leader in international education and 
academic and service projects by partnering 
in international research, learning, and service. 
FSU needs to grow these international 
engagements to prepare students for an 
increasingly complex and competitive 
multicultural world. By so doing, it will enhance 
much-needed cultural competencies and build 
fruitful collaborations with institutions, faculty, 
staff, students, and communities from around 
the world.
5
OBJECTIVES 
Focus the FSU brand to bolster our reputation, 
stakeholder and partner relationships, and 
quality
Raising the university’s brand reputation will aid 
in faculty, student, and staff recruitment, public 
and private fundraising, and gift cultivation, and 
produce new opportunities for engagement 
with and investment by government, not-for-
profit and private entities and organizations.
Leverage growing and increasingly diversified 
financial resources to strategically invest in 
emerging areas of institutional excellence
An emphasis on financial resource 
diversification and growth will provide 
additional funding for investment in areas 
that are consistent with a continued push to membership in the Association of American 
Universities, thus solidifying FSU’s place 
among the leading research institutions in 
North America.
Become a national leader in operational 
excellence in the administration of the 
university and its resources to empower 
innovation, sustainability, and resilience on 
campus and beyond
FSU will build on its history of nationally 
recognized operational excellence by better 
leveraging human, technological, data, 
physical, fiscal, and intellectual capital. FSU 
will challenge the status quo in institutional 
administration, process design, sustainability, 
resilience, and personal empowerment both on 
campus and within its communities. ENHANCING OUR 
BRAND TO REFLECT 
INSTITUTIONAL EXCELLENCE
FSU has a strong record of success in delivering outstanding returns to 
students, alumni, and the people of Florida, amid a nurturing and growth-oriented 
environment. FSU’s administration will develop consistent messaging around 
these strengths to make them demonstrable and stable themes within FSU’s 
overall brand narrative. FSU will utilize its financial, physical, technological, 
and human resources to drive the brand forward, striving for comprehensive 
excellence in all endeavors to become an internationally recognized leader in 
higher education.FSU aspires to develop a diverse and inclusive student body supported by an 
equally diverse community of faculty and staff that will promote these efforts 
locally and globally. By valuing and leveraging the different viewpoints and 
experiences within its community and throughout the world, FSU creates a fertile 
environment for innovation, understanding, and compassion.
4COMMITTING TO 
INCLUSIVE EXCELLENCE 
& CIVIL DISCOURSE
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN22
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 23
VISION
Florida State University will 
be among the nation’s most 
entrepreneurial and innovative 
universities, transforming the 
lives of our students and shaping 
the future of our state and society 
through exceptional teaching, 
research, creative activity, and 
service. We will amplify these 
efforts through our distinctive 
climate—one that places a 
premium on interdisciplinary 
inquiry and draws from the 
rich intellectual and personal 
diversity of our students, faculty, 
staff, and alumni. These three 
forces—entrepreneurship, 
interdisciplinarity, and diversity—
deepen FSU’s impact and result in 
a powerful return to our students 
and the people of Florida for their 
continued support and trust.
OUR TIME IS NOWMISSION
Florida State University preserves, 
expands, and disseminates 
knowledge in the sciences, 
technology, arts, humanities, and 
professions, while embracing a 
philosophy of learning strongly 
rooted in the traditions of the 
liberal arts. The university is 
dedicated to excellence in 
teaching, research, creative 
endeavors, and service. The 
university strives to instill the 
strength, skill, and character 
essential for lifelong learning, 
personal responsibility, and 
sustained achievement within 
a community that fosters free 
inquiry and embraces diversity.
FLORIDA STATE
UNIVERSITY
2023-2027 STRATEGIC PLAN
OUR TIME IS NOW
