 
 
 
 
Internationalisation Policy Plan  
2022 -2026  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

2 
 Introduction  
Hasselt University’s Internationalisation Policy Plan sets out the priorities  for the internationalisation 
and development cooperation policy for the period 2022 -2026. The policy priorities are grouped into 
four strategic objectives, each of which has been elaborated into operational objectives, current 
initiatives and possible new action s. Hasselt University’s internal resources for internationalisatio n 
and development cooperation, together with additional resources, will be optimally used to achieve 
these objectives.  
In what follows, the term internationalisation is used in a broad sense, and integrally includes 
development cooperation.   
● SO1: Hasselt U niversity will strengthen its international network    
● SO2: Hasselt University will actively seek solutions to the local and global challenges faced  
by society  
● SO3:  Hasselt University will maximise incoming and outgoing international mobility among  
students, researchers and staff and encourage organisation -wide participation  
● SO4:  Hasselt University will institutionalise internationalisation in the structures and  
processes  of the entire organisation  
This Internationalisation Policy Plan was created thanks to input from the faculties and the 
Commission Internationalisation and Development Cooperation (Commissie Internationalisering & 
ontwikkelingssamenwerking, CIOS) , with the Internationalisation Office of the Directorate Research, 
Library and Internationalisation ( directie Onderzoek, Bibliotheek & Internationalisering ) as the 
coordinating entity.  
Place of the Internationalisation Policy Plan in the strategic positioning of Hasselt 
University  
Learning, inclusive, international and sustainable are the four policy priorities that Hasselt University 
has put forward for the three core academic tasks of education, research and valorisation & service s 
for the coming years. They set Hasselt University ’s vision for 2030, which is in line with the 
sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. These priorities also fit with the 
institution -wide civic mission  in which UHasselt is committed helping build a strong region and 
engag e for the benefit of society. Against the back drop of economic, social, demographic and societal 
shifts, a strong university with an international character can also make the region more resilient.  
The choice to make ‘international’ a policy priority is partly inspi red by the fact that Limburg has 
historically experienced difficulties in attracting international talent and companies. To promote the 
‘internationalisation’ of Limburg’s economic fabric, Hasselt University is pursuing an active 
international agenda. This  international focus is also essential to fully assume its role as a civic 
university. It is precisely the connection of the different levels at which a civic university operates , 
locally, nationally and internationally, that generates added value. The int ernational focus is also a 
‘conscious’ choice, outside the specific Limburg context and our civic mission.  Hasselt University 
3 
 focuses  on the international level with an ambitious international agenda. Knowledge and data, 
collected regionally, offer the opp ortunity , through this strong embedding and interwovenness,  to 
develop education and research with a strong international reputation .  
This Internationalisation Policy Plan is based on this policy vision and also takes account of the 
Research & Innovation and Education Policy Plans1. It also responds to  recent global developments 
that play a role in the vision for internationalisation in higher education.  The calls to composition of  
European universities, the importance of new types of internationalisation  (such as blended mobility) 
and the focus on sustainability and inclusion, also within funding programmes, are just a few of 
these.  
The internationalisation of higher education has various facets, including attracting foreign talent to 
Hasselt University a nd sending students, staff and researchers on foreign exchanges. A strong 
network of like -minded, high -quality universities and partners is crucial for this. But 
internationalisation is also a mindset. It becomes even more tangible when international coope ration 
reflects on staff commitment  and is a means of enhancing the quality of education, research and 
services.  
These different facets also appear in this policy plan. Given the interwoven character of 
internationalisation within Hasselt University, both different academic and management services are 
involved in the further  elaboration of the action points under eac h operational objective and ensuring 
their impact.  
   
 
1 The strategic objectives relating to internationalisation were explicitly included in the Research 
and Innovation Policy Plan. For the Education Policy Plan, it was decided to refer consistently to 
the Internationalisation Policy Plan for the strategic and operational goals.  
4 
 Strategic (SO) and operational (OO) objectives of the Internationalisation Policy Plan  
SO1 Hasselt University will strengthen its international network  
A strong international network is a lever for mor e structural  international education and research 
cooperation. With this first strategic objective, Hasselt University continues to focus on participation 
in regional, national, European and international networks, at both institutional and faculty level. 
Research and education cooperation with complementary external partners stimulates the exchange 
of knowledge and experience. Through education and research projects, joint publications and 
networking actions, engaged researchers and lecturers assume a lead ing role in the global academic 
community. UHasselt is focusing in this context on academic cooperation with partners in the region, 
in Europe, but also worldwide and with partners in developing countries.  
At the institutional level, the importance of Euro pean University Initiatives plays a major role. These 
are transnational alliances of European universities , promot ing European values and identity and 
transform ing the competitiveness of European higher education. UHasselt has already taken an 
important first step by joining the European alliance ‘EURECA -PRO’. It was an explicit choice to join 
EURECA -PRO and thus establish a partnership with institutions located outside the political and 
economic centre of their respective countries, in regions with compa rable social and economic 
development. This has the potential to provide mutual inspiration and promote cooperation.  In the 
coming years, Hasselt University aims to expand  cooperation with EURECA -PRO and potentially other 
European and international network s within all parts of the university and to play a prominent role 
in these networks. In addition, cooperation within the transnational University of Limburg (tUL) 
remains high on the agenda. Euregional strengths are also f urther exploited , for example in t he field 
of research and innovation. In this way, strengthened partnerships and financing options will be 
further expanded (cf. Research & Innovation Policy Plan 2022 -2026).  
At the faculty level, focusing on regional, national, European and international networks remains of 
primary importance in order to gain international visibility and occupy a prominent position. This, 
together with thorough communication, remains crucial to putting Hasselt University permanently 
on the map as a ‘strong br and’. 
OO1.1: Hasselt University is committed  to strengthening and projecting an internationally 
strong brand, while taking its own values and culture into account  
UHasselt persues an international marketing policy, partly based on the needs of the various faculties 
and schools. In the first place, the aim is to recruit high -quality master’s students for the 
international master’s programmes. The Hasselt University website often acts as the university’s 
first point of contact. Continuously expanding and opti mising the English website is crucial. 
International brand awareness is also an important factor. Hasselt University continue s to focus on 
this (through online portals, promotion, search engine advertising, and communication in English 
5 
 aimed at prospective  students). In addition, international alumni have an important role to play in 
marketing. More use should be made of international alumni activities at Hasselt University.  
Current initiatives:  
● Communicating about UHasselt  in university rankings.  
Actions:  
● Developing expertise and activity with regard to international marketing;  
● Evaluating the business model of English -language programmes (master’s and PhD) and 
research programmes, amongst others via benchmarking and, where necessary, 
optimisation;  
● Clearer presentation of international cooperation, for example via an interactive m ap on the 
Hasselt University website;  
● Expansion of international alumni activities, possibly in the context of the VLIR alumni 
working group;  
● Simplification of the admission procedure.  
OO1.2: Hasselt University develop s partnerships to maximise internation alisation  
Hasselt University encourages its researchers and staff to develop, maintain and use international 
contacts as a basis for international collaboration. The International  Office  promote s as much as 
possible the existing internal and external frame works for the development of international academic 
partnerships, and support funding applications and projects at the administrative and strategic level. 
Hasselt University remains committed  to strengthening and broadening good partnerships, including 
with societal and economic actors.  
 Current initiatives:  
● Stimulating the development and perpetuation of partnerships within calls (mobility calls, 
predoctoral visits, Erasmus+, etc.);  
● Providing  administrative and strategic support with applications for network funding.  
Actions:  
● Sharing information about existing partnerships and alliances;  
● Hasselt University’s ambition is to organise a theme week with strategic partners every two 
years in order to promote global citizenship, but also to stimulate networking (cf. the policy 
plan Global Minds 2.0);  
● Evaluation of existing synergies within BOF (cf. HEC Pakistan);  
● Promoting existing funding sources for developing and strengthening partnerships;  
● Annual monitoring of the evolution of partnerships (Erasmus+) and taking appropriate 
actions.  
6 
 OO1.3: Hasselt University take s on a role within its existing international networks in 
education, research and knowledge transfer  
Since January 2022 Hasselt University has been part of EURECA -PRO, a European University Alliance 
which focuses on the theme of responsible consumption and production.  This network aims to 
develop a European university at which education, research and innovation  are developed around 
sustainability in various disciplines (SDG12). Setting up study programmes for bachelor’s, master’s 
and PhD students is one of the focal points of the network, as is conducting sustainability research 
whereby  EURECA -PRO becomes the po int of contact within Europe. In addition, Hasselt University 
wishes to further develop entrepreneurship and innovation together with this network. Initiating and 
consolidating Hasselt University’s participation in this network and in the European Universi ty require 
a significant contribution from the central offices as well as the faculties, schools, research institutes 
and centres, which will be coordinated by a project manager under the supervision of the Rectorate.  
In addition, Hasselt University will c ontinue to encourage its researchers and staff to play an active 
part in other network organisations relating to university -wide themes (e.g. EUF, EARMA, EAIE, etc.) 
and disciplinary and thematic initiatives (from the faculties, research groups). This rema ins 
important for further raising the profile of Hasselt University’s research and education.  
Current initiatives:  
● Joining the European University Initiative EURECA -PRO; 
● Hasselt University is a member of various network organisations and is involved in th eir 
activities (e.g. EUF, EARMA, EAIE, etc.).  
Actions:  
● Expanding EURECA -PRO’s education, research and innovation work packages and 
embedding them in Hasselt’s functioning (e.g. English -language tracks in 
bachelor’s/master’s years);  
● Taking advantage of exte rnal financing opportunities within existing and new European and 
international networks (e.g. Erasmus+, Horizon Europe, etc.);  
● Identifying existing networks;  
● Making the most of regional, national, European and international networks (EUA, Euraxess, 
EUI, E AIE, EUF, etc.).  
● Supporting the exploration of the possibilities for developing a more extensive range of 
English -language bachelor’s and master’s programmes.  
  
7 
 SO2 Hasselt University will actively seek solutions to the local and global challenges 
faced by society  
Hasselt University is a civic university: true to its original purpose, it assumes its responsibility and 
engages for the benefit of society. Hasselt University wants to deploy people and knowledge to tackle 
challenges facing s ociety together with others. This strategic objective underlines Hasselt 
University’s civic character and is closely connected with its four policy priorities (learning, inclusive, 
international, sustainable). Hasselt University is committed to imparting k nowledge, social insights 
and skills to its students, researchers and staff members to turn them into engaged global citizens. 
It is important to continue to stimulate this global citizenship through our degree programmes, but 
also through awareness campai gns and events. This engagement with society will also continue in 
Hasselt University projects worldwide. The university will therefore continue to encourage its 
researchers and staff to participate actively in projects aimed at global capacity -building in  
developing countries. Hasselt University also seeks to give students, researchers and staff an open -
minded view of the world with its Global Minds programme. This open attitude will be achieved by 
bringing Hasselt University into the world, but also by br inging the world to Hasselt University. 
Learning from each other and working together (co -creation) are necessary for this. The updated 
Global Minds 2.0 programme further refines these objectives. Finally, in pursuing this objective 
Hasselt University also  wants to pay attention to sustainability. Among other things, the university 
will ensure that a sustainable travel policy for students, researchers and staff is developed and 
implemented.  
OO2.1: Hasselt University will stimulate the global citizenship of students, researchers 
and staff  
Hasselt University wants to impart knowledge, social insights and skills to its students, researchers 
and staff in order to turn them into critical, engaged global citizens who are agile and able to adapt 
to an ever -changing  social context. The university therefore provides various educational 
opportunities relating to a broad range of social topics, both within curricula and on an extracurricular 
basis, for both domestic and international students, researchers and staff.  
Current initiatives:  
● An optional programme component on Globalisation & Sustainable Development is being 
offered;  
● A range of awareness -raising activities on internationalisation is being organised;  
● Hasselt University organises staff training courses to reinfo rce global citizenship such as 
intercultural competencies, etc.  
 
Actions:  
8 
 ● Extracurricular programme component on Global Citizenship (cf. Global Minds 2.0), aligned 
with course from the Education Policy Plan;  
● Encouraging the organisation of theme evenings or conferences on socially relevant topics 
(cf. Global Minds 2.0);  
● Hasselt University’s ambition is to organise a theme week with strategic partners every two 
years in order to promote global citizenship, but also to stimulate networking (cf. Glob al 
Minds 2.0).  
OO2.2: Hasselt University will focus on projects that tackle social issues worldwide, doing 
so on a university -wide basis  
As a civic -oriented university, Hasselt University will focus on projects and partnerships that aim to 
have a social impact in the areas of education, research and services. To this end, Hasselt University 
will continue to encourage its researchers to participate in external funding programmes aimed at 
global capacity -building in developing countries, including th e VLIR -UOS programmes, the Erasmus+ 
capacity -building projects, etc. Through the Global Minds programme, Hasselt University will also 
reinforce its own expertise on this theme and build lasting, strategic partnerships in order to jointly 
seek answers to so cietal challenges and wicked problems, thus contributing to mutual knowledge -
building.  
Current initiatives:  
● Hasselt University and DIOS support initiatives such as ENACTUS and SAR;  
● Ongoing VLIR -UOS and Erasmus+ projects, and the continuing work of drawing attention to 
their importance and impact.  
Actions:  
● Hasselt University will continue to focus on capacity -building projects, including through 
VLIR-UOS, Erasmus+ and other funding channels;  
● Hasselt University will organise a theme week with strategic partne rs on a specific social 
issue (and linked to the projects) every two years.  
OO2.3: Hasselt University will implement a sustainable travel policy  
Hasselt University is committed to a more sustainable use of means of transport in the context of 
work-related trips for Hasselt University assignments. The need to make international trips, the 
possible travel routes in relation to price and time, and the offsetting of CO2 emissions are important 
factors to be taken into account here. In developing a travel policy , the intention should not be to 
cut down on travel, but to increase awareness of the climate issue and the impact of air travel on it. 
The rules of sustainable travel financing programmes will also be taken into account when developing 
and implementing th e policy.  
Current initiatives:  
9 
 ● Establishment of a sustainability steering group at Hasselt University.  
Action:  
● Further developing, validating and monitoring a sustainable travel policy for Hasselt 
University researchers and students, taking into account the guidelines of funding bodies 
(such as FWO, EC, Erasmus+, etc.).   
10 
 SO3 Hasselt University will maximise incoming and outgoing international mobility 
among students, researchers and staff and encourage organisation -wide participation  
Internationalisation plays an important role in enhancing the quality of research, education and 
innovation, and at Hasselt University it will be interwoven into education, research and innovation 
in every part of the cycle from intake to departure. Attrac ting foreign talent to Hasselt University 
and sending students, staff and researchers on foreign exchanges and postings will therefore remain 
a priority. High -quality student mobility will boost 21st century skills and makes students employable 
in a wide r ange of occupations in a globalising world. High -quality researcher mobility will lead to 
new knowledge, expertise and cooperation methods, research questions and contacts. Hasselt 
University staff will also acquire intercultural competencies through inter national experience, which 
will in turn contribute to the further development of a culture of internationalisation. Inclusion and 
inclusive mobility must always be central to the organisation -wide encouragement of mobility.  
Facilitating incoming mobility a lso requires effective guidance and service provision, with a particular 
emphasis on hospitality, as a clear reception policy forms the basis for welcoming international 
talent.  The expert provision of information to incoming guests about accommodation, in surance, etc. 
will be further optimised. All the expertise needed to provide suitable support and information to 
international visitors will be centralised. Conversely, when our students, researchers and staff are 
planning time abroad, there will be a sing le point of contact to which they can initially turn.  
OO3.1: Hasselt University will strengthen its internationalisation offer and maximise the 
opportunities for and participation of all students, researchers and staff  
Hasselt University will provide oppor tunities and strengthen what is on offer for both incoming and 
outgoing mobility of students, researchers and staff. New Belgian, European and international 
funding channels for internationalisation and development cooperation will be explored for this 
purpose. The university will also include initiatives relating to internationalisation at home and 
blended mobility. To this end, existing initiatives will be supplemented with new internal and external 
initiatives to increase opportunities and participation in internationalisation (e.g. an extracurricular 
course on travelling to the global south, Global Minds travel grants for incoming students, job 
shadowing, a blended intensive programmes, etc.). Hasselt University will strive in this context to 
achieve max imum participation for all students, researchers and staff.  
Current initiatives:  
● In the context of student mobility to the global south, Hasselt University organises 
preparatory, safety & health and debriefing sessions;  
● Hasselt University offers International, Interdisciplinary Internships (INT³) in the summer;  
● Mobility opportunities are offered through Erasmus, VLUHR, VLIR -UOS, etc.;  
● Establishment of the Hubertus Fund;  
● Calls for the Hasselt University stimulation fund and GM (cf. infra).  
11 
 Actions:  
● Ambition to organise an extracurricular course for students covering subjects such as racism, 
inequality, poverty, etc. (cf. Global Minds 2.0);  
● Hasselt University will also focus on reciprocity and organise scholarships for incoming 
students throu gh Global Minds (cf. travel grants, Global Minds 2.0);  
● Promoting opportunities for staff mobility (job shadowing);  
● Promoting opportunities for blended mobility within Erasmus+;  
● Developing an internationalisation at home offer;  
● Hasselt University will expan d the possibilities for interfaculty and international internships 
(INT³);  
● Exploring new possibilities within the Erasmus programme (BIP, etc.);  
● New funding possibilities for internationalisation and development cooperation based on a  
cross-cutting policy  theme.  
OO3.2: Hasselt University will align and present funding options for internationalisation  
The Internationalisation and Development Cooperation Unit and the Research Funding Unit of the 
Research, Library and Internationalisation Directorate will exa mine and facilitate the range of 
different internal (DIOS Incentive Fund & Global Minds, BOF) and external funding options 
(Erasmus+, FWO, VLIR -UOS, etc.). Hasselt University wants to investigate the possibilities within 
the existing internal DIOS Incentiv e Fund and Global Minds programme, and extend or repurpose 
these where possible. In the process, synergies and possible links with other existing internal and 
external programmes will be sought. The units involved will also clearly present all existing fun ding 
opportunities, so that researchers and staff can find the right funding options easily.  
Current initiatives:  
● The DIOS Incentive Fund & Global Minds BOF has been operational for several years;  
● Hasselt University facilitates and supports researchers and  staff with funding applications 
(Erasmus, VLUHR grants, etc.);  
● Hasselt University provides annual joint funding for the Fulbright programme.  
Actions:  
● Possibilities for expanding DIOS Incentive Fund & Global Minds will be examined (with a view 
to links with BOFs/other research channels);  
● Channelling opportunities for funding internationalisation;  
● Coherent presentation of existing options for external funding programmes for research and 
internationalisation.  
OO3.3: Hasselt University will optimise i ts reception policy for international students, 
researchers and staff  
12 
 At Hasselt University, hospitality is of central importance before, during and after visitors’ stay at 
the institution. The Hasselt University reception procedure for international stude nts, researchers 
and guests will be further optimised and set out in detailed guides. The organisation of a welcome 
day for new independent academic staff members, including those from other countries, will also be 
developed. It is important to involve dif ferent offices/directorates in this work (P&O, FIN, OBI, etc.). 
Communication with international guests and students will also being reviewed. In addition, extra 
attention will be paid to activities and a programme for our international guests, so that the y quickly 
feel at home in the Hasselt University community.   
Current initiatives:  
● Hasselt University organises activities for incoming international students;  
● Hasselt University organises the buddy programme to support incoming international 
students;  
● The SPOC Reception Policy covers practical arrangements in the context of international 
mobility;  
● Reception of international students in cooperation with the local authorities (cf. the manifesto 
‘Hasselt the student city’, etc.);  
● The accommodatio n on offer for guests and researchers is being evaluated and plans are 
being made to expand it for both individuals and couples; the possibilities for expansion are 
being discussed.  
Actions:  
● The integrated reception policy, including all relevant offices/d irectorates (P&O, OBI, etc.) 
will be optimised and set out in detailed guides;  
● The information for incoming guests (from different offices/directorates) will be reviewed 
and, where possible, brought together on the website and the intranet;  
● The pre -registr ation tool for international guests of Hasselt University will be adapted;  
● Expertise in reception will be built up (childcare, public transport, insurance, accommodation 
for families, accompanying partners, etc.).  
 
  
13 
 SO4 Hasselt University will institutionalise internationalisation in the structures and 
processes of the entire organisation  
The elaboration of the internationalisation policy priorities, as described in this policy plan, can only 
take place efficiently if the internal Hasselt Unive rsity structures and processes are adjusted 
accordingly. This strategic objective strives for clear integrated structures, processes and associated 
responsibilities with regard to internationalisation and is intended to optimise the positioning of these 
things at both central and faculty level. The composition, powers and functioning of existing bodies 
should be discussed and, where possible, optimised. In addition, there is a need for a clear data 
management system for monitoring, trends and developments in internationalisation . 
All this should lead to transparent policy management, better information flow, more efficient 
support and recognition (academic and otherwise) at various central and decentralised levels within 
Hasselt University. It is important to strike a balance between uniformity at institutional level and 
the individuality of each faculty.  
Hasselt University wants to train its students, researchers and staff to become global citizens who 
value an international mindset. The develo pment of language courses for students and staff is 
necessary in this regard. In addition, it is important to take care over the use of the English language 
in administration and in general communication in order to work on achieving a long -term 
internatio nal image. In addition, the international mindset will be embedded in other administrative 
services (e.g. information security, payroll administration of non -domiciled persons, etc.).  
OO4.1: Perpetuating and developing structures that embed and integrate 
internationalisation in the different parts of Hasselt University  
The importance of internationalisation in Hasselt University policy must also be reflected in the 
existing advisory bodies at Hasselt University. This operational objective aims to further c onsolidate 
the powers and advisory bodies for internationalisation at central level. This should ensure optimal, 
transparent reporting and advice on internationalisation to the existing administrative bodies (Board 
of Governors, Board of Deans, etc.). The current Internationalisation and Development Cooperation 
Committee (CIOS) and the High -Risk Destinations Committee are among the bodies to which this 
objective relates. Student participation through the Hasselt University Student Council is also 
important in this respect (e.g. Green Office, involvement of the International Council StuRa).  
Current initiatives:  
● Internationalisation and Development Cooperation Committee (CIOS) is operational;  
● High-Risk Destinations Committee is operational.  
Actions:  
● Reviewing, optimising and including in the RAS the composition and organisation of CIOS;  
14 
 ● Further embedding the functioning of the High -Risk Destinations Committee in existing 
structures for researchers and students;  
● Providing support with the organisation of the Green Office;  
● Providing support to the International Council within STURA and optimising the working 
method for cooperation with the International Council;  
● Ensuring communication in English with researchers, students and staff;  
● Providing support wit h the development of a Hasselt University language policy.  
OO4.2: Developing profiles that support internationalisation at Hasselt University and 
perpetuate the network around it  
The policy and operational functioning with regard to internationalisation wi ll rely on interaction 
between the central level and the faculties and be based on a vision that is supported on all sides 
with regard to the provision of high -quality internationalisation services (hospitable, efficient, 
proactive, inclusive, etc.). The d evelopment of a robust framework in which central support and 
services are geared to the needs and profiles that support internationalisation in the faculties and 
schools is of great importance here.  A broad, integrated and comprehensive approach with clea r 
responsibilities and agreements at the different levels is needed to ensure coherent support for the 
relevant researchers, staff, students and guests.  The individuality of the faculties and schools must 
be preserved in this context. Training and workshop s for the relevant colleagues and the exchange 
of best practices can provide guidance here. In order to also make the international character of 
Hasselt University better known worldwide and to promote the university and its programmes 
internationally, int ernational marketing will need to be stepped up.  
Current initiatives:  
● Monthly consultation of faculty internationalisation coordinators is operational, optimising 
activities.  
Actions:  
● Clarifying the division of roles and interaction between the Internationalisation and 
Development Cooperation Unit and the faculties and schools, and defining the profiles of 
faculty internationalisation coordinators (e.g. the role of faculties in welcoming international 
guests, etc.), always from a customer -oriente d perspective;  
● Providing training and workshops for faculty coordinators and central colleagues (EARMA, 
EAIE, VLIR -UOS, inhouse training, etc.);  
● Setting up a structure of ambassadors, and exchanging best practices between them (cf. 
policy plan Global Minds  2.0). 
 
OO4.3: Hasselt University will set up a university -wide, integrated data management 
system and applications in connection with good governance of internationalisation  
15 
 Data collection and monitoring and quality assurance are important elements for reporting on policy 
implementation and describing trends and developments. This operational objective aims to tackle 
the fragmentation of data collection on internationalisation at Hasselt University and ensure sufficient 
user-friendly applica tions. In this way, better use can be made of information and data as input for 
the university’s education, research and internationalisation policy.  
Current initiatives:  
● The exchange database for outgoing mobility is in use and is continuously updated, including 
in the context of Erasmus Without Paper (EWP);  
● Incoming international students will be able to pre -register by means of the planned Hasselt 
University application;  
● All Hasselt University contracts, including international cooperation agr eements and 
exchange agreements, are registered in the contract database;  
● Work-related trips of staff and researchers are registered in Fintra for insurance purposes 
and the monitoring of travel to high -risk areas.  
Actions:  
● Identifying existing Hasselt Uni versity applications and databases and associated processes. 
Needs can then be formulated and the existing market offer can be explored;  
● Optimising the monitoring of, among other things, travel and mobility (to high -risk areas) 
of researchers and students through existing applications;  
● Setting up an integrated information system with an access portal for users (central tool 
combining different applications), developing a dashboard relating to projects and mobility 
(submitted, selected, ongoing and completed  projects in countries X, domains Y, etc.) 
through existing applications, taking into account BI applications.  
OO4.4: Hasselt University will encourage internationalisation through an internal 
recognition policy  
Hasselt University will pursue a policy of s timulation in which attention is paid to the international 
mobility of students, researchers and staff and participation in international research and education 
projects is encouraged. The internal and external funding channels for education, research and 
internationalisation will be evaluated and, where possible, aligned and promoted to academics, who 
will be given support with the application process. In addition, it is important for Hasselt University 
to recognise the efforts of researchers in this regar d in the context of promotion applications and 
thus given internationalisation a clear place in researchers’ academic records.  
Current initiatives:  
● Hasselt University researchers and staff are active in various funding channels for research 
and internation alisation (Global Minds, VLIR -UOS, Erasmus+, etc.).  
Actions:  
16 
 ● Further development and formal recognition of internationalisation in promotion 
applications;  
● Improved presentation, consolidation and recognition of internationalisation in academic 
records;  
● Promoting the sharing of expertise and best practices between faculties and schools.  
OO4.5: Hasselt University will reinforce the international mindset and ensure that it 
results in targeted institutional, education and research initiatives  
Hassel t University wants to train its students, researchers and staff to become global citizens with 
an international mindset. As it is a cross -cutting policy theme, it is necessary for internationalisation 
to be represented at different levels (students and res earchers) and in different directorates/offices 
(education, research, TTO, etc.). Sharing success stories and good practices is important to put 
internationalisation in the spotlight. To ensure that international students, researchers and staff 
members als o feel and continue to feel part of the Hasselt University community, a well -developed 
language policy and bilingual communication (Dutch and English) are required.  
 Current initiatives:  
● Success stories concerning internationalisation are put in the spotli ght through 
storyweaving, Facebook, etc.;  
● Information sessions are preferably provided in English;  
● There is a buddy system for international students;  
● Actions, processes and initiatives regarding language are being identified.  
Actions:  
● Further development of the storyweaving project;  
● Developing and rolling out language policy (including its intercultural dimensions) across the 
organisation and for all personnel statuses;  
● Being more aware of the need for communication in English, especially in applications, official 
contracts, etc.;  
● Evaluating and expanding language courses (Spanish, French, English, including at advanced 
level, etc.);  
● Specifically developing a range of courses in language and communication skills, possibly in 
partnership with language centres, for students who go abroad.  
  
17 
 List of abbreviations  
BIP:  Blended intensive programme  
BOF:  Special Research Fund  
CIOS:   Internationalisation and Development Cooperation Committee  
DIOS:   Internationalisation and Development Cooperation Office  
EC:   European Commission  
EAIE:   European Association of International Education  
EARMA:    European Association of Research Managers  
EUF:  European University Foundation  
EUI:  European University Institute  
EWP:   Erasmus Without Paper  
FIN:  Financial Office  
FWO:   Research Foundation – Flanders  
GM:  Global Minds  
HEC:  Higher Education Commission (Pakistan)  
INT³:   International, Interdisciplinary Internships  
OBI:  Research, Library and Internationalisation Directorate  
P&O  Personnel & Organi sation  
RAS:  Academic Structure Regulations  
SAR:   Scholars at Risk  
SDG:   Sustainable Development Goal  
SPOC:   Single point of contact  
StuRa:   Student Council  
TTO:  Tech Transfer Office  
VLIR:   Flemish Interuniversity Council  
VLIR-UOS:  Flemish Interuniversity Council for University Development Cooperation  
VLUHR:   Flemish Higher Education Council  
ZAP:  Independent academic staff  
