Strategic Growth Action Plan
Heidelberg University
FY 2022-2026
Inside Front Cover
“I chose Heidelberg because I knew I'd get so many 
opportunities to develop myself as a young adult 
and truly put myself out there. Heidelberg's faculty 
and staff truly care for you and want you to succeed. 
It's great knowing I have a support system both 
academically and athletically. This is something I 
knew coming in after visiting the University a couple 
of times before committing, which ultimately led to 
my decision to come here."
Maddie Szawranskyj '22  |  Early Childhood Education Majo r
Strategic Growth Action Plan
Table of Contents
Executive Summary  ..................................................................................... 3
Mission & Vision Statements  ........................................................................................................................................ 3
Heidelberg University SGAP Top KSI Priorities  ........................................................................................................ 5
Planning Process Narrative  ........................................................................ 7
Background and Context  ................................................................................................................................................ 7
The SGAP Steering Committee  .................................................................................................................................... 9
Process of Creating Goals, Objectives and KSIs  .................................................................................................... 10
Goals, Objectives, Initiatives  .................................................................... 13
Integrated Summary Graphic  ..................................................................................................................................... 13
Goal 1: Heidelberg Value  ............................................................................................................................................. 14
Goal 2: Enrollment Growth  ......................................................................................................................................... 16
Goal 3: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity  ................................................................................................................. 18
Goal 4: Financial Sustainability  ................................................................................................................................ 20
Funding Strategy  ....................................................................................... 23
Funding the SGAP: Resources  ................................................................................................................................... 23
Why is there an SGAP Fund?  .................................................................................................................................... 23
What is the size of the SGAP Fund?  ....................................................................................................................... 23
1

Executive Summary
In order to survive and thrive, 
Heidelberg University must accelerate 
and achieve greater transformation, 
innovation, diﬀerentiation, and value 
over the next ﬁve years and beyond.
2
Strategic Growth Action Plan
Executive Summary
The SGAP team established the following Mission and Vision statements for SGAP that align with Heidelberg’s 
institutional Mission and Vision:
HU 10-Year Strategic Mission Statement
Heidelberg will deliver student lives of purpose with distinction through community 
inclusiveness, integrated curricular and co-curricular programs, and global water 
education, research, and commercialization.
HU 10-Year Strategic Vision Statement
Heidelberg will be the top rated, ranked, and valued educational 
institution among our regional peers.
Meeting consistently since November of 2020, the SGAP team created the enclosed plan to accomplish four 
overarching goals to help us achieve our Mission and approach our Vision: 
1. Heidelberg Value  - Gain Competitive Educational Market Advantages
2. Enrollment Growth  - Expand Student Educational Opportunity
3. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity  - Become A More Diverse, Equitable, and Inclusive Learning Community
4. Financial Sustainability  - Strengthen Resilience for University Sustainability
3
A/f_ter ﬁnalizing the Four Strategic Goals, the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee established a list of Strategic Objectives 
to help Heidelberg accomplish each Strategic Goal and the SGAP Mission and approach the SGAP Vision. The 
SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee then identiﬁed Key Strategic Initiatives to achieve each objective. There is signiﬁcant 
overlap between the Four Strategic Goals, the 19 Strategic Objectives, and the 52 Key Strategic Initiatives (KSIs). In 
combination, they work together to achieve the SGAP Mission and aspire to the SGAP Vision. The entire plan was 
informed and strengthened by our higher education market analysis, a SWOT analysis of each overarching goal, 
and the identiﬁcation of critical success factors.
Heidelberg must successfully execute the KSIs listed in the SGAP plan to accomplish our institutional objectives, 
reach our goals, and realize the strategic vision and mission identiﬁed by the SGAP commi/t_tee. The purpose of 
the SGAP is for Heidelberg University to survive the current crises (demographic changes and changing market 
demands, both of which were accelerated by COVID-19), and thrive in the competitive market of 21st century 
higher education. In order to survive and thrive, Heidelberg University must accelerate and achieve greater 
transformation, innovation, diﬀerentiation, and value over the next ﬁve years and beyond.
4

Heidelberg University SGAP Top KSI Priorities
Most Urgent
Implement the Three Pillars of
Student Success Plan.Most Important
Execute Academic Strategic 
Program Prioritization.Most Transformational
Explore and Develop Global Water
Center for Education, Research,
and Commercialization.Goal 1: Heidelberg Value - Gain Competitive Educational Market Advantages
Most Urgent
Expand Transfer Pathways with
Community Colleges.Most Important
Create and Promote Academic 
Programming to Recruit Women.Most Transformational
Build Field House with 
New Programming.Goal 2: Enrollment Growth - Expand Student Educational Opportunity
Most Urgent
Engage Outside Consulting 
to Build DEI Strategy.Most Important
Execute Human Resources Strategic 
Operational Plan.Most Transformational
Create Multi-Year Accessibility
Improvement Plan.Goal 3: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity - Become A More Diverse, Equitable, 
and Inclusive Learning Community
Most Urgent
Establish Grant Funding 
Management Oﬃce.Most Important
Execute $20M Campaign 
for Scholarships.Most Transformational
Develop Campus Environmental
Sustainability Plan.Goal 4: Financial Sustainability - Strengthen Resilience for University SustainabilityUpon ﬁnalizing the KSIs and Objectives, the SGAP team identiﬁed the KSIs that were most urgent, most important, 
and most transformational for the institution to help prioritize the execution of SGAP initiatives. The SGAP Steering 
Commi/t_tee identiﬁed the following top KSIs:
5

Narrative
The Strategic Growth Action Plan 
(SGAP) provides the Heidelberg 
community with a vision of the 
institution in 10 years and charts the 
institution’s path toward that vision.
6
Strategic Growth Action Plan
Planning Process Narrative
In the Fall of 2020, Heidelberg University President, Dr. Rob Huntington, convened a cross-functional commi/t_tee 
to develop the institution’s 5-to-10 year strategic plan. The Strategic Growth Action Plan (SGAP) provides the 
Heidelberg community with a vision of the institution in 10 years and charts the institution’s path toward that 
vision. Through the development of Four Strategic Goals, 19 Strategic Objectives, and 52 Key Strategic Initiatives 
(KSIs), the Strategic Growth Action Plan provides a clear roadmap for how Heidelberg will navigate the changing 
landscape of higher education to establish ﬁnancial stability, achieve academic excellence, and accomplish a cultural 
transformation of the University as a whole.
Background & Context
Higher education, nationwide, is in a precarious position. Across the country, institutions of higher education struggle 
to balance budgets, reach enrollment targets, and retain and graduate students in signiﬁcantly higher numbers. 
Nationwide, approximately 40% of students who enroll in an institution of higher education drop out. The number 
of traditional college-age students is declining nationally too; between 2025 and 2030, the population of 18-22 year 
olds will decline by about 15%.1 Public perception of the value of a college degree has declined in recent years, with 
fewer Americans indicating that they believe higher education is worth the cost. According to the Strada Education 
Network, 59% of potential adult learners believe a college degree is worth the cost (down from 77%) and only 64% 
believe that a college degree will help them get a good job (down from 89%).2
For at least the past twenty-ﬁve years, Heidelberg has struggled with these same challenges. At Heidelberg, 
approximately 50% of students do not graduate from Heidelberg.3 Heidelberg’s ﬁve-year average fall-to-fall 
retention rate is 72.0%, compared to national average of 77.1% for four-year private institutions. Similarly, HU’s four-
year graduation rate is 46.4% and the six-year graduation rate is 51.6% (ﬁve-year averages); both Heidelberg’s four- 
and six-year graduation rates lag behind national averages.4
Geographically, Heidelberg also faces challenges, primarily due to changing demographics in the Midwest. The 
population of traditional college-age students is declining in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Illinois, and Kentucky. In 
the Midwest as a whole, the pool of college-age students will not increase over the next 10 years with an estimated 
annual pool of high school graduates of 717,300 students through 2031-2032.5 This decline in the population of 
traditional age college students is sometimes referred to as a demographic cliﬀ. Additionally, the population of 
high school graduates is changing, not only in average number, but also in demographics. The proportion of White 
students is expected to decline from 76% to 70% of the graduating population while the proportion of Non-White 
graduates is projected to increase from 24% to 30% by 2031-2032.6
1h/t_tps://www.forbes.com/sites/brandonbusteed/2020/09/25/wake-up-higher-education-the-degree-is-on-the-decline/?sh=7be935917ecb 
2h/t_tps://stradaeducation.org/press-release/conﬁdence-in-the-value-of-education-has-fallen-among-adults-without-degrees-seriously-considering-
additional-education/
3Heidelberg University Drop Out Phenomenon, 2015.
4National Student Clearinghouse Research Center
5h/t_tp://knocking.wiche.edu/
6h/t_tp://knocking.wiche.edu/
7
Heidelberg’s lower-than-average retention and graduation rates and the Midwest’s demographic ‘cliﬀ’ contribute 
to the institution’s precarious ﬁnancial situation. Heidelberg has consistently struggled with budget deﬁcits for 
the past twenty-ﬁve years. As a university driven primarily by tuition revenue, the size of incoming classes and 
retention rates have a direct and clear impact on the University’s operating budget. Additionally, Heidelberg’s 
student population remains disproportionately White, disproportionately male, and increasingly from economically 
disadvantaged backgrounds (as indicated by an increase in the percentage of Pell Eligible students).
Overall, Heidelberg University is struggling with the same challenges as most institutions of higher education. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated or accentuated these challenges, both nationwide and on the local level. 
Although state and federal governments provided ﬁnancial support for institutions of higher education, the 
signiﬁcant disruptions to recruitment and retention eﬀorts, teaching and learning, and all aspects of the student 
educational experience pose an existential threat to residential small colleges. 
The SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee was established with these challenges - both in general and Heidelberg speciﬁc 
- in mind. For Heidelberg University to survive the current crises and thrive in the changing landscape of higher 
education, the institution must develop a strategic plan that responds to the various challenges higher education 
is facing.
8Heidelberg University Student Body Demographics
White/Caucasian
African American
Hispanic
Other (Bi-racial)
First Generation
(Only tracked consistently since 2008.)
Pell-Eligible2000
92%
7%
<1%
0%
32%
(2008)
35%2020
80%
8%
4%
4%
41%
39.7%
The SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee
To respond to the challenges facing higher education, President Huntington tasked the Heidelberg community 
with creating the college’s 5-10 year strategic plan. The commi/t_tee executing this charge was titled “The SGAP 
Steering Commi/t_tee”. The SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee is led by co-chairs Rob Huntington (President), Tony Bourne 
(VP for Enrollment Management and Marketing), Bryan Smith (Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost), 
and Hoa Nguyen (VP for Administration and Business Aﬀairs). The co-chairs issued an open call for participants in 
October of 2020, soliciting volunteers from across campus to serve on the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee. A total of ten 
additional participants were selected based on four key criteria: 
7SGAP co-chair Le/t_ter to the Faculty Personnel Commi/t_tee (October 27, 2020).
Ultimately, a cross functional team of 15 members of the campus community was created. SGAP Steering 
Commi/t_tee members came from across campus, including faculty, staﬀ, administration, and a student 
representative. The initial SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee included the following members:
Tony Bourne , VP for Enrollment Management and Marketing
Shaun Gunnell , Director of Multicultural Student Aﬀairs and co-chair of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commi/t_tee
Robin Heaton , Associate Professor of Communication
Ashley Helmste/t_ter , Assistant Vice President for Alumni Engagement and HYPE Career Ready®
Kurt Huenemann , Associate Vice President for Information Resources and Assistant Professor of Computer Science
Rob Huntington , President and Chair of the SGAP Planning Steering Commi/t_tee
Jordan Kaufman , Director of Academic Assessment & Eﬀectiveness and Member of the Academic Collaborative Leadership Team
Katie Mullins , Senior Admission Counselor and Class of 2018
Hoa Nguyen , Vice President for Administration & Business Aﬀairs
Tony Patrizi , Head Wrestling Coach
Marjorie Shavers , Associate Professor of Counseling, Director of Graduate Studies in Counseling, and member of the Academic 
Collaborative Leadership Team
Bryan Smith , Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs & Provost and Professor of Chemistry
Traci Si/t_tason Stark , Professor of Psychology
JT Vaughan , Student Senate President and Class of 2021
Monica Verhoﬀ , Executive Assistant to the President, Provost and Board of Trustees
The initial makeup of the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee underwent two primary modiﬁcations between SGAP’s launch 
in November 2020 and the completion of the SGAP plan in December of 2021. In March of 2021, the SGAP 
members selected Kurt Huenemann and Jordan Kaufman to serve as co-facilitators for all SGAP meetings. In the 
Spring and Summer of 2021, JT Vaughn was replaced by Noah Kennard as the student representative and Student 
Senate President because JT Vaughn graduated from Heidelberg University. In the Summer of 2021, Dr. Marjorie 
Shavers was replaced by Dr. Courtney DeMayo Pugno, Assistant Vice President of Academic Aﬀairs and Executive 
Director of the Owen Center for Teaching and Learning because Dr. Shavers took a position at another university. 
Finally, Monica Verhoﬀ was replaced by April Russell when Ms. Verhoﬀ moved into Human Resources and Ms. 
Russell took the position of Executive Assistant to the President, Provost, and Board of Trustees.1. Competencies for the planning task
2. Understanding of the whole institution3. Connections to the campus community
4. Representation of own functional area7
9
Process of Creating Goals, Objectives, and KSIs
The SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee began their work in November of 2020. The commi/t_tee was provided with four 
key areas of focus for their work: Heidelberg value, enrollment growth, diversity, equity, and inclusion, and 
ﬁnancial sustainability. It is these four key areas that formed the structural foundation of the SGAP, and led to the 
establishment of the four SGAP goals:
1. Heidelberg Value  - Gain Competitive Educational Market Advantages
2. Enrollment Growth  - Expand Student Educational Opportunity
3. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity  - Become A More Diverse, Equitable, and Inclusive Learning Community
4. Financial Sustainability  - Strengthen Resilience for University Sustainability
The four SGAP goals are grounded in the need to diﬀerentiate Heidelberg from competitors in a saturated higher 
education marketplace, to expand institutional enrollment (through improved retention and through recruitment), 
to transform Heidelberg into a welcoming and inclusive community for all students, and to improve the institution’s 
ﬁnancial stability. 
To achieve these goals, the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee reviewed a series of objectives that would allow the 
institution to establish mile markers to measure the institution’s progress on each goal. Each goal was assigned 
between four and six measurable objectives that the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee believed would help the institution 
accomplish its goals. Although objectives have undergone several rounds of revision over the course of the SGAP 
Steering Commi/t_tee’s work, measurable objectives include:
Goal 1: Heidelberg Value - Gain Competitive Educational Market Advantages
Objectives
Diﬀerentiate Heidelberg in the higher education market.
Increase 4-year graduation rate to 65% by 2025.
Improve Freshman-to-Sophomore retention rate to 85% by 2025.
Achieve 90% preferred placement by 2025.
Goal 2: Enrollment Growth - Expand Student Educational Opportunity
Objectives
Increase total headcount to 1,200 by 2025.
Increase campus engagement as measured by fall-to-spring retention.
Recruit 60% of students from beyond 75 miles away from campus.
Increase the female-to-male headcount to reach a 55:45 ratio.
Transform athletics by building a ﬁeldhouse.
10
A/f_ter establishing the key SGAP goals and objectives, the Steering Commi/t_tee determined collective norms and 
procedures, and the commi/t_tee dove into a SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats) analysis 
and the identiﬁcation of factors critical to the successful execution of any plans that emerge from SGAP. A/f_ter 
completing a SWOT analysis and identiﬁcation of critical success factors, the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee held a series 
of open campus forums to gain feedback and insights from the campus community on what types of initiatives 
should be included in the ﬁnal SGAP. 
From the Spring of 2021 until the Summer of 2021, the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee worked to identify Key Strategic 
Initiatives for each of the goals and measurable objectives. In anticipation of sharing the SGAP dra/f_t with the 
full campus, the Steering Commi/t_tee spent August 3-August 5 in a writing retreat (aﬀectionately referred to as 
the SGAP Bunker by Steering Commi/t_tee members), where the Steering Commi/t_tee reﬁned the SGAP, ﬁnalized 
the SGAP mission and vision, and planned for the dissemination of the dra/f_t to the entire campus community. 
In August of 2021, the SGAP dra/f_t was shared with the campus community as a whole for feedback, and 
subsequently revised in the lead-up to the Board of Trustees meeting. 
At the October Board of Trustees meeting, the Board of Trustees devoted their entire Strategic Board Retreat to 
SGAP. In this retreat, Trustees and SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee members engaged in extensive conversation, with 
Trustees providing feedback on a multitude of topics. Discussion items included: the size and scope of the plan; 
the relationship among the goals, objectives, and KSIs; risks associated with each of the objectives and KSIs; and 
recommendations on how to prioritize the work necessary to execute the SGAP. 
Following the SGAP/Board Retreat, the Steering Commi/t_tee reconvened and organized the feedback from 
Trustees. In response to Trustees' feedback, the SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee made several substantive changes: 
they consolidated several KSIs, conducted an evaluation of all remaining KSIs to determine the most urgent, 
most important, or most transformational, and conducted a Critical Risk Assessment for the urgent/important/
transformational KSIs. The Critical Risk Assessment required SGAP Steering Commi/t_tee members to think through 
the risks associated with the execution, success, or failure of each of the twelve top KSI priorities.Goal 3: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity - Become A More Diverse, Equitable, 
and Inclusive Learning Community
Objectives
Improve campus climate as measured by HEDS Diversity Survey.
Increase proportion of students from marginalized populations by 10%.
Increase diversity among the employee popluation by 25%.
Increase campus programming with two DEI events.
Increase partnerships and collaboration with local community.
Increase diversity among Board of Trustee members by 25%.
Goal 4: Financial Sustainability - Strengthen Resilience for University Sustainability
Objectives
Achieve at least $500,000 budget surplus by 2025.
Increase total net operating revenue to $29.5 million by 2025.
Increase endowment to $100 million by 2025.
Innovate in institutional operations.
11
Goals, Objectives, Initiatives
The purpose of the SGAP is for 
Heidelberg University to survive 
the current crises, and thrive in the 
competitive market of 21st century 
higher education.
12
Strategic Growth Action Plan
Goals, Objectives, Initiatives
HU 10-Year Strategic Vision:  
Heidelberg will be the top rated, ranked, and valued educational institution among our 
regional peers.
HU 10-Year Strategic Mission:  
Heidelberg will deliver student lives of purpose with distinction through community 
inclusiveness, integrated curricular and co-curricular programs, and global water 
education, research, and commercialization.
13Integrated Summary Graphic
GOAL 1:
HEIDELBERG VALUE
Gain Competitive Educational Market Advantages
14Market Diﬀerentiation  - Improve Regional Ranking
Explore/Develop Water Center for Education, Research, and Commercialization
Enhance PlusOneAdvantage® MBA
Brand and Market PALS, HYPE and LBGLS Speaker Series
Partner Strategically in Complementary Segments
4-Year Graduation  - Improve Price/Value Ranking
Execute Academic Strategic Prioritization Plan
Maintain and Improve Tuition and 4-Year Graduation Guarantees
Sophomore Retention  - Improve Sophomore Retention
Implement Three Pillars Student Success Plan (Title III)
Support Pell-Eligible Students
Enhance Faculty Pedagogy
Preferred Placement  - Placement Rate, Improve Social Mobility Ranking
Amplify Experiential Learning OpportunitiesFY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025 FY 2026 Objectives & Related KSIs
52% 56% 60% 65%
85% Sophomore Retention
90% Placement RateObjectives & KSI Timeline
Improve Regional
Ranking (TBD)
Improve
Price/Value
Ranking
Improve
Social Mobility
Ranking
15Purpose & Impact
Market Diﬀerentiation
Explore/Develop Water Center 
for Education, Research, and 
Commercialization
Purpose is to...  
Establish a distinctively diﬀerentiating program that 
addresses a signiﬁcant institutional weakness.
Impact is to...  
Gain institutional brand awareness locally, regionally 
and nationally through recognition as the #1 
university for global water education, research and 
commercialization.
Enhance PlusOneAdvantage® MBA
Purpose is to...  
Improve our distinctive program substantially to 
be known for a legitimately strong program in the 
market.
Impact is to...  
Serve our undergraduate students more eﬀectively 
and a/t_tract outside tuition-paying students.
Brand and Market PALS, HYPE, and 
LBGLS Speaker Series
Purpose is to...  
Target the distinctive programming of PALS (Patricia 
Adams Lecture Series), HYPE, and LBGLS (Lichtman-
Behm Genocide Lecture Series) speaker series in a 
stressed industry/market as an opportunity to gain 
national recognition.
Impact is to...  
Gain sharper name recognition that strengthens 
student recruitment and increases alumni/donor 
support.
Partner Strategically in 
Complementary Segments
Purpose is to...  
Strengthen and extend our community strategic 
partnerships to expand our university market 
recognition.
Impact is to...  
Create new teaching and learning opportunities 
for current students and a/t_tract new students by 
raising our brand proﬁle.4-Year Graduation
Execute Academic Strategic 
Prioritization Plan
Purpose is to...  
Strengthen our core curricular academic program 
oﬀering.
Impact is to...  
Drive increased new enrollment, improve retention, 
raise our 4-year graduation rates, and strengthen 
our preferred placement of our graduates.
Maintain and Improve Tuition and 
4-Year Graduation Guarantees
Purpose is to...  
Simplify/clarify our ﬁnancial structure for families 
and to keep our students on track to graduate.
Impact is to...  
Increase 4-year graduation rates and improve 
the Heidelberg price value equation for our 
students and their families.Sophomore Retention
Implement Three Pillars Student 
Success Plan (HYPE, Gen Ed, Student 
Academic Success)
Purpose is to...  
Drive ﬁrst to second-year retention through 
integrated improvements in Gen Ed, HYPE Career 
Ready, and OCTL.
Impact is to...  
Improve retention and graduation rates of all 
students and especially our most vulnerable 
students.
Support Pell-Eligible Students
Purpose is to...  
Provide more eﬀective tools and resources to 
support our most at-risk students.
Impact is to...  
Improve the learning experience, engagement, and 
retention of students with the greatest ﬁnancial 
needs.
Enhance Faculty Pedagogy
Purpose is to...  
Develop and equip faculty with the tools necessary 
to teach, engage, and meet the needs of students 
more successfully.
Impact is to...  
Improve faculty-student engagement and student 
learning.
Preferred Placement
Amplify Experiential Learning 
Opportunities
Purpose is to...  
Complement student academic portfolios.
Impact is to...  
Make our students and graduates more a/t_tractive in 
the employment marketplace.
GOAL 2:
ENROLLMENT GROWTH
Expand Student Educational Opportunity
16Total Headcount
Execute Strategic Enrollment Management Plan
Expand Transfer Pathways with Community Colleges
Develop Market-Driven Graduate Programs
Develop Adult Learners Market
Campus Engagement
Execute Student Aﬀairs Strategic Operational Plan
Develop Continuity of Student Care Culture
Geographic Reach
Strengthen Social Media Engagement
Execute Regional Recruitment Strategies
Female Headcount
Target Marketing and Communication to Recruit Women
Create and Promote Academic Programming to Recruit Women
Improve Facilities and Amenities to Recruit and Retain Women
Athletics Transformation
Build Field House with New Programming
Strengthen Athletics Integration Across CampusFY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025 FY 2026 Objectives & Related KSIs
60% Beyond 75 miles
55% FemaleObjectives & KSI Timeline
1040 1072 1120 1200 FT UG
Fall to Spring Retention
Break Ground on 
Field House
17Purpose & Impact
Total Headcount
Execute Strategic Enrollment 
Management Plan
Purpose is to...  
Implement a plan of action to focus recruitment 
eﬀorts around analysis of market demand, student 
retention, and discount rate to build enrollment 
growth. 
Impact is to...  
Increase enrollment incrementally through 
increased fall enrollment and retention of students 
through graduation.
Expand Transfer Pathways with 4 
local Community Colleges
Purpose is to...  
Build relationships with local CCs which results in 
improved transferability of programs.
Impact is to...  
Increase transfer enrollment contributing to overall 
full-time enrollment.
Develop Graduate Programs
Purpose is to...  
Expand existing (MBA, MAC, MAT) and build new 
graduate programs. 
Impact is to...  
Increase graduate student enrollment to 
supplement undergraduate enrollment.
Develop Adult Learners Market
Purpose is to...  
Expand access to our current programs and 
develop new curriculum to accommodate demand 
from the adult learner market.
Impact is to...  
Add to total enrollment with students from this 
demographic.Campus Engagement
Execute Student Aﬀairs Strategic 
Operational Plan
Purpose is to...  
Use data to make informed decisions regarding 
student life and campus engagement.
Impact is to...  
Create a be/t_ter student experience improving 
student satisfaction and campus aﬃnity.
Develop Continuity of Student 
Care Culture
Purpose is to...  
Implement a model of engaging students across 
and within divisions in a way that removes 
barriers and advocates for their positive 
experience.
Impact is to...  
See positive student feedback for interactions 
with campus employees in both service and 
academic divisions, increased student retention 
and reduced student and family complaints.
Geographic Reach
Strengthen Social Media Engagement
Purpose is to...  
Build the eﬀectiveness of our social media 
accounts.
Impact is to...  
Increase brand awareness and engagement 
outside local Heidelberg community.
Execute Regional Recruitment 
Strategies
Purpose is to...  
Grow our market outside of the local region.
Impact is to...  
Diversify the enrollment market to stave oﬀ 
the negative impacts of declining high school 
graduations in local market.Female Headcount
Target Marketing and Communication
Purpose is to...  
Promote changes in programming and facilities 
speciﬁcally to the female student population.
Impact is to...  
Build awareness of enhancements to 
programming and facilities.
Create and Promote Academic 
Programming
Purpose is to...  
Identify academic pathways to a/t_tract female 
enrollment.
Impact is to...  
Increase female student enrollment through 
connections to available academic oﬀerings.
Improve Facilities and Amenities
Purpose is to...  
Create an environment that is appealing to 
female students.
Impact is to...  
Strengthen female demand for residential living 
and engagement on campus.
Athletics Transformation
Build Field House with New 
Programming
Purpose is to...  
Provide athletic and student facing facilities that 
are on par with competitors.
Impact is to...  
Support recruitment, retention, and non-tuition 
revenue eﬀorts through showcasing the high-
quality new facility.
Strengthen Athletics Integration 
Across Campus
Purpose is to...  
Improve collaboration between the athletics 
oﬃce and campus partners in Academic Aﬀairs 
and Enrollment Management to be/t_ter align 
recruitment and retention eﬀorts of student 
athletes.
Impact is to...  
Improve the productivity and eﬀectiveness of 
recruitment and retention of student athletes 
throughout the college experience. 
GOAL 3:
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSIVITY
Become A More Diverse, Equitable, and Inclusive Learning Community
18Campus Climate
Engage Outside Consulting to Build DEI Strategy
Oﬀer Professional Diversity & Inclusivity Development
Create Multi-Year Accessibility Improvement Plan
Student Population
Establish One-Stop Wraparound Student Services
Provide Inclusive Campus Infrastructure and Amenities
Establish Multicultural and Inclusive Alumni Networks
Employee Population
Execute Human Resources Strategic Operational Plan
Develop Employee Compensation Plan
Campus Programming
Expand Multicultural and Inclusive Celebrations
Develop More Inclusion Advocacy Programs
Develop Minority Leadership Initiatives for Students
Community Collaborations
Add HU, TU, K-12 Programming
Collaborate with Other Community Organizations
Cultivate Inclusive Economic Development Partnerships
Employee Population
Strengthen Board SGAP Functional Expertise
Diversify Trustee Proﬁle and Cultivation ModelFY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025 FY 2026 Objectives & Related KSIs
Increase Climate,
Diversity Survey
Objectives & KSI Timeline
+10% Repr. of Marginalized...
+25% Broader Diversity
2 Annual DEI Events
Partnerships...
+25% New Board Members
19Purpose & Impact
Campus Climate
Engage Outside Consulting to Build DEI Strategy
Purpose is to...  
Gain expertise from DEI professionals. 
Impact is to...  
Inform all of our Goal 3 KSI's.
Oﬀer Professional Diversity and Inclusivity 
Development
Purpose is to...  
Educate and train all employees in the areas of 
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Impact is to...  
Oﬀer a more welcoming & inclusive campus 
community for all underrepresented students and 
employees.
Create Multi-Year Accessibility Improvement Plan
Purpose is to...  
Create an intentional accessibility plan with clear 
long-term commitment.
Impact is to...  
Improve accessibility throughout the campus (e.g. 
ramps & elevators) to have a more accessible 
campus for all.
Student Population
Establish One-Stop Wraparound Student Services
Purpose is to...  
Support students more eﬃciently, easily, and 
inclusively (e.g. ﬁnancial aid).
Impact is to...  
Improve student success and retention.
Improve Campus Facilities and Amenities
Purpose is to...  
Create a more inclusive learning and living 
environment (e.g. barber shop).
Impact is to...  
Provide a more welcoming and comfortable 
environment for all students.
Establish Multicultural and Inclusive Alumni 
Networks
Purpose is to...  
Create a multicultural network of alumni that 
support and mentor current students.
Impact is to...  
Establish stronger ties and relationships with a 
diverse and inclusive group of HU Alumni.Employee Population
Execute Human Resources Strategic 
Operational Plan
Purpose is to...  
Support all employees as our most valuable assets.
Impact is to...  
Make HU the employer of choice.
Develop Employee Compensation and 
Retention Plan
Purpose is to...  
Establish a more competitive salary & beneﬁts 
package (e.g. salary bands).
Impact is to...  
Improve recruitment, retention and satisfaction.
Campus Programming
Expand Multicultural and Inclusive Celebrations
Purpose is to...  
Engage more students in multicultural events.
Impact is to...  
Support and embrace multi-culturalism among the 
HU campus and community.
Develop More Inclusion Advocacy Programs
Purpose is to...  
Enhance and broaden multicultural understanding 
across the campus.
Impact is to...  
Make all students feel welcomed, embraced, and 
represented.
Develop Minority Leadership Initiatives for 
Students
Purpose is to...  
Provide underrepresented students with leadership 
opportunities.
Impact is to...  
Establish and promote more career pathways for 
underrepresented students. Community Collaborations
Add HU, TU, K-12 Programming
Purpose is to...  
Improve the DEI of the Tiﬃn - Seneca Community 
through educational channels.
Impact is to...  
Oﬀer a more welcoming and inclusive educational 
community.
Collaborate with Community Organizations 
Purpose is to...  
Improve the DEI of the Tiﬃn - Seneca Community 
through non-proﬁt channels (e.g., churches, 
foundations, and social service agencies etc.)
Impact is to...  
Oﬀer more opportunities for students to engage in 
the Tiﬃn/Seneca community (e.g. volunteer, service, 
churches).
Cultivate Inclusive Economic Development 
Partnerships
Purpose is to...  
Improve DEI of the Tiﬃn - Seneca Community 
through the for-proﬁt sector.
Impact is to...  
Oﬀer more underrepresented student opportunities 
for internships, jobs/careers.
Board Representation
Strengthen Board SGAP Functional Expertise
Purpose is to...  
Execute SGAP successfully (e.g. recruit Water 
Expertise).
Impact is to...  
Accomplish the SGAP Vision and Mission.
Diversify Trustee Proﬁle and Mix
Purpose is to...  
Represent the campus community proﬁle.
Impact is to...  
Diversify the board of trustees.
 
GOAL 4:
FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
Strengthen Resilience for University Sustainability
20Asset Stewardship
Reﬁne Collaborative Budget Modeling
Perform Financial Analysis of Student Educational Programs and Services
Develop Funding Model for Market-Driven Program Development
Develop Deferred Maintenance Plan
Revenue Growth
Execute University Advancement & Alumni Aﬀairs Strategic Operational Plan
Establish Grant Funding Management Oﬃce
Support and Expand Non-Tuition Revenue Sources
Endowment Growth
Execute $20M Campaign for Scholarships
Engage Industry and Community Partnerships
Grow Unrestricted General Endowment
Operations Innovation
Execute HeiTech 2025 Plan
Centralize and Integrate Administrative Support Services
Develop Campus Environmental Sustainability PlanFY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025 FY 2026 Objectives & Related KSIs
+$100K
Objectives & KSI Timeline
Balance
Budget+$250K +$500K
$29.5 MM Revenue
$100 MM Endowment
Allocate 5% to I.T.
21Purpose & Impact
Asset Stewardship
Implement Collaborative Budget Modeling
Purpose is to...  
Allocate limited institutional resources in 
accordance with the college's institutional, strategic 
priorities. 
Impact is to...  
Provide adequate funding for areas of growth, 
align institutional spending with institutional 
priorities and to maximize limited resources. 
Perform Financial Analysis of Student 
Educational Programs and Services
Purpose is to...  
Evaluate what programs work/don't work from a 
ﬁnancial perspective. 
Impact is to...  
Be/t_ter align spending with program impact and 
eﬀectiveness.
Develop Funding Model for Market-Driven 
Program Development
Purpose is to... 
Prioritize limited resources to fund new programs 
that will support growth. 
Impact is to...  
Provide ﬁnancial support for new programs and 
be/t_ter respond to market demand. 
Develop Deferred Maintenance Plan
Purpose is to...  
Improve institutional infrastructure. 
Impact is to... 
Support growth and campus life/campus 
engagement. Revenue Growth
Execute University Advancement and 
Alumni Aﬀairs Strategic Operational Plan
Purpose is to...  
Solicit non-tuition revenue from donors and alumni 
to support HU's operations. 
Impact is to... 
Increase non-tuition net revenue and be/t_ter align 
donor interest to institutional needs and priorities.
Support and Expand Non-Tuition 
Revenue Sources
Purpose is to...  
Diversify revenue streams by maintaining/
increasing existing non-tuition revenue sources.
Impact is to...  
Increase non-tuition net revenue to alleviate 
discounting pressure on HU's total net revenue and 
enhancing HU's total operating revenue.
Centralize and Integrate Administrative 
Support Services
Purpose is to...  
Solicit non-tuition revenue streams to support 
faculty & staﬀ scholarly work, institutional initiatives.
Impact is to... 
Increase grant funding (non-tuition revenue) to 
free up limited institutional resources and improve 
HU's reputation. Endowment Growth
Execute $20M Campaign for Scholarships
Purpose is to...  
Provide ﬁnancial support/assistance for students. 
Impact is to...  
Increase HU's aﬀordability and alleviate discounting 
pressure on the institution's ﬁnances.
Engage Industry and Community 
Partnerships
Purpose is to...  
Develop non-tuition revenue streams & create 
opportunities for HU to support the Tiﬃn 
community.
Impact is to...  
Increase non-tuition revenue and improve town/
gown relations.
Grow Unrestricted General Endowment 
Purpose is to...  
Provide greater ﬁnancial ﬂexibility.
Impact is to...  
Improve Heidelberg's cash ﬂow. 
Operations Innovation
Execute HeiTech 2025 Plan
Purpose is to...  
Improve technology infrastructure and leverage 
technology. 
Impact is to...  
Increase eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness in HU's 
operations.
Centralize and Integrate Administrative 
Support Services
Purpose is to... 
Improve customer service and increase eﬃciency 
and eﬀectiveness of back oﬃce areas. 
Impact is to... 
Increase eﬃciency of admissions, ﬁnancial aid, 
registrar, and business oﬃce processes.
Develop Campus Environmental 
Sustainability Plan
Purpose is to... 
Protect HU's physical assets and identify long-term 
cost-saving measures related to maintenance and 
facilities.
Impact is to... 
Create a more environmentally friendly campus; 
adopt long-term cost saving measures related to 
maintenance and facilities.
Funding Strategy
22Heidelberg’s collaborative budget model 
creates a platform to more easily align 
ﬁnancial resources to priorities presented 
in the integrated operational plans by 
each division.
Strategic Growth Action Plan
Funding Strategy
Funding the SGAP: Resources
No strategic plan would be complete without considering the resources needed to execute the key initiatives 
presented. As the very foundation of the strategic pillar #4 in the SGAP, the importance of ﬁscal sustainability and 
shared values of asset stewardship and ﬁnancial accountability require a careful analysis of current expenditure 
baseline to ensure resources are allocated to strategic priorities, eﬃciencies are leveraged, and sustainable and 
diverse resources are advanced. Heidelberg’s collaborative budget model creates a platform to more easily align 
ﬁnancial resources to priorities presented in the divisions’ operational plan. SGAP initiatives will be funded in ﬁve 
primary ways. Heidelberg must execute all ﬁve of these funding components as soon as possible if we are to 
successfully implement the SGAP.
1. Rightsizing our Structural Operating Model by eliminating or reducing existing expenses;
2. Redeploying existing funds from lower priorities to higher priorities;
3. Raising new funding sources through grants and donors;
4. Rolling over an operating surplus from one ﬁscal year into an SGAP Fund; and
5. Drawing unrestricted funds from the General Endowment for an SGAP Fund.
Why is there an SGAP Fund?
The purpose of separating the SGAP Fund from the Operating Fund is to provide one source of funding for the 
SGAP by supporting large, cross-institutional initiatives that will have signiﬁcant impact throughout the University 
and aﬀecting multiple departments. There are 52 new initiatives in the SGAP for moving Heidelberg forward. These 
opportunities for new growth require resources to invest in those initiatives that align with the strategic objectives 
of the University. Failure to have funds available when the need arises would be detrimental to the overall success of 
Heidelberg University.
What is the size of the SGAP Fund?
The SGAP Fund will be $1,000,000 and the intention is to support multiple major projects in any given year. We 
have not developed or deﬁned the necessary budgets for all of the KSIs or projects at this time. If there are any 
funds remaining at the end of the year, the balance will roll forward into the following year. Should there be an 
operating surplus at the end of the ﬁscal year, the Senior Leadership Team may decide to place all or part of the 
surplus into the SGAP Fund.
23

