 1 / 7 
 Hiroshima University 
International Strategy 2022 
 
Preamble 
Guided by its founding principle of “a single unified university, free and pursuing 
peace,” Hiroshima University (HU) has fulfille d its mission as an exceptional institution 
of learning in the fields of e ducation, research, medical serv ices, and social contribution. 
As colleges and universities in Japan are required to further advance in 
internationalization, HU will pr oactively fulfill its mission and role, fully recognizing its 
duties as a research university located in Hiroshima . Having taken office as the 12th 
President of HU, Dr. Mitsuo Ochi set himself the aims of “cultivating peace-pursuing, cultured individuals with an international mi ndset and a challenging spirit” and making 
HU “a university of world-wide repute and sp lendor for years into the future.” To 
realize these aims, he drew up the long-te rm vision “SPLENDOR (Sustainable Peace 
Leader Enhancement by Nurturing Developmen t of Research) PLAN 2017.” In order to 
successfully accomplish this long-term vision during President Ochi’s second tenure 
(2019-2022), the International Strategy 2022 has been established.  
Basic Principle 
The SPLENDOR PLAN 2017 adopted “Science for Sustainable Development” as a 
new guiding principle for the field of Peace Sciences, under which a set of new 
missions for HU were proposed: the establ ishment of a new discipline called 
“Hiroshima Peace Science” and the realization of a diversified, free, and peaceful global 
society. To fulfill these missions, HU devised an international strategy consisting of two 
concrete objectives: promoting the disciplin e of Peace Studies and contributing to the 
realization of Sustainable Development Goal s (SDGs). The backbone of this strategy is 
HU’s established reputation as Japan’s l eading university in education, which is 
grounded in a long-standing intellectual trad ition passed down from  Hiroshima Higher 
Normal School as one of the university’s predecessors.  
Taking advantage of Hiroshima’s intellectual climate and HU’s educational 
experience, HU places a special emphasis on th e realization of SDG4 (Education) and 
 2 / 7 
 SDG16 (Peace) under the university’s principl e of internationaliza tion, in order to 
become an educational institution where both students and staff can experience their 
own personal growth in an international environment. 
The new HU strategy is based on “Hiroshima University International Strategy 2016,” 
but it has been divided into four areas of  focus, namely: “Education,” “Research,” 
“International/Social Contri bution” and “Branding/Developm ent of Infrastructures for 
Internationalization.” Additionally, specific pl ans will be proposed for each of the four 
strategic areas, and region-specific strate gies will be devised to maximize the 
effectiveness of res ource distribution. 
 
I. Education 
(1) Establishing integrated education for cultivating global-minded human 
resources 
HU offers an integrated education sy stem that trains global-minded human 
resources in stages thr oughout the entire course of  study from admission to 
graduation. With a clearly defined curri culum map, our system guides students 
through the developmental process from  cross-cultural exchange, overseas 
experience, specialized education, and individual research to overseas work experience, thereby meeting the specific need s of all the students enrolled at HU. In 
order to establish this integrated education system, we intend to make the most of diverse systems, education programs, and ot her tools that are av ailable to us now. 
Our priority in this regard will be to enhance the environment for sending and 
receiving students to and from overseas institutions as detailed below, with a view toward developing domestic and internationa l students who have global competency 
and are resultantly capable of meeting a variety of social needs. 
① Encouraging more domestic students to study abroad 
We will take every opportunity to expand study abroad programs to enhance 
integrated education of global-minded human resources. We will also aim to increase students’ global competency to prepare gr aduates to play an active role in the 
international arena. 
 
 3 / 7 
 ② Inviting more international students 
International students on short-term programs will be offered various 
all-university exchange programs, courses on the Japanese language and culture, and 
specialized education taught in English and other languages, so that they can access 
quality education and research opportunities. 
(2) Internationally standardized curricula 
We will launch an “Internationalization at Home ” program, which will allow 
Japanese students and international students to  learn together, as part of our effort to 
design and offer an elaborate education curriculum that assists students in deepening their understanding of Japan while learni ng about it from an international 
perspective. 
(3) Offering Japanese language and cultur e education tailored to international 
students 
We will offer ICT-driven courses on Japanese language and culture that meet the 
needs and levels of individual Japanese language learners as well as Japanese 
language teachers residing overseas, with th e aim of leading our current practice of 
diverse Japanese language and culture e ducation and partnership programs with 
neighboring educational institutions to the formation of a hub of Japanese language 
education in the Chugoku and Shikoku district s. Furthermore, we will utilize our 
overseas bases to create a global network of campuses in order to cultivate 
global-minded human resources ready to pl ay an active role on the global stage and 
establish ourselves as a hub of Japanese language and culture education in the 
Chugoku and Shikoku districts. 
(4) Assist students in becoming educat ed individuals who pursue peace with a 
global mindset.   
HU offers a variety of subjects in the field of Peace Studies. The course is 
designed to help students develop skills around examining facts, analyzing information, and discussing the concept of peace. The overarching aim of the course 
is to assist students in becoming educat ed individuals with a global mindset, who 
actively pursue peace and promote understand ing toward others in  an international 
setting, utilizing the knowledge and skills gained from studying at HU. 
 4 / 7 
 (5) Cultivating human resources while striving to achieve SDGs 
The United Nations Sustainable Devel opment Goals (SDGs) require us to 
consider pressing issues that humankind and Planet Earth face today and in the 
future as universal and relevant to ourselves, and think and act together while making necessary changes. Out of our sincere wish that each and every student will 
become capable of thinking and acting proa ctively to meet the SDGs and play a 
leading role in a myriad of  ways throughout regions as we ll as the world itself, we 
will offer a variety of learning opportunities. In so doing, we will establish an interdisciplinary education program thr ough collaboration and integration across 
multiple fields and disciplines, thus taking a more systematic approach to our university’s endeavors. 
 
II. Research 
(1) Strengthening research capabilities 
In an attempt to reinforce our research  capabilities, enhance the quality of our 
research, and improve our reputation by prom oting international joint research, we 
will build an international research netw ork, utilize the network in a coordinated 
manner, win a large amount of external funds , aggressively hire international faculty 
members, and develop on-campus infrastr ucture for reinforcing international 
research activities. With these measures, we will continue to take on new endeavors 
while increasing the effectiv eness of ongoing initiatives, thus making HU a research 
organization with sustainable international competitiveness. 
(2) Establishing a base for Peace Studies and Education for Peace.   
HU has created a new regional hub for the research and education in Peace Studies, 
which is tasked with disseminating th e message of global peace and with 
contributing to the wellbeing and development of local communities. 
(3) Support for research that facili tates achievement of the SDGs 
In quest of “science for sustainable de velopment,” the goal of our long-term 
vision, SPLENDOR PLAN 2017, we will raise the level of our basic research, 
application, and advanced research that  underpin such scie nce and engage in 
initiatives that help to maximize overall  synergies as we continue to remind 
 5 / 7 
 everyone involved how each of our endeavors will contribute to the achievement of 
the SDGs. Along with education and in ternational contributions, we will 
institutionalize HU’s services geared toward  the achievement of the SDGs, revitalize 
our unique research activities, and publici ze research outcomes extensively both at 
home and abroad. 
 
III. Social Contributions / International Contributions 
(1) International industry-academia collaboration 
With the aim of reinforcing our industr y-academia collaboration from a global 
perspective and enhancing HU ’s international presence, we will expand and fortify 
both domestic and international networks, pr omote international joint research, and 
enhance internationa lly expanding entrepreneur training through personnel 
interchanges. We hope that this will help  us to strengthen our international 
industry-academia collaboration, cultivate a nd utilize human resources with a global 
perspective and international competitiveness,  and establish an international network 
of researchers, which should allow us to better disseminate inte rnational research 
outcomes. 
(2) Strengthening cooperation with international bodies and overseas 
government bodies 
We will aggressively cooperate with international bodies and overseas government 
bodies in order to address common issues  as we tap into our strengths and 
collaborate with these bodies as mutually in spiring partners in the entire range of our 
education, research, and inte rnational contribution. This should help increase the 
venues and opportunities for our education, resear ch, and internati onal contribution, 
thereby increasing our international presence. 
(3) Disseminating the information regarding  “Hiroshima Peace Science” to the 
world.   
Established in Hiroshima, the city that experienced the world’s first atomic bomb, 
and with the founding principle of “a si ngle unified university, free and pursuing 
peace,” HU has always strived to fulfill its mission of providing a “forum to study 
peace” from various perspectives, covering global issues including war, atomic bomb 
 6 / 7 
 experiences, poverty, famine, and  demographic and environmental conflicts. 
Leveraging its track record in the fiel d of Peace Studies, HU introduces the new 
academic discipline of “Hiroshima P eace Science.” In c ooperation with SDG 
projects, the university will disseminate its research output worldwide, while enhancing its domestic and international pr esence as a university dedicated to the 
principle of peace. 
(4) Contribution to the achievement of the SDGs 
We encourage members of HU (faculty and staff members and students) to 
actively involve themselves in SDGs-relate d activities through various avenues and 
to return the outcomes of such activitie s to our education and research, thereby 
maximizing synergies of our contributions  to the achievement of the SDGs and 
institutionalizing the process of these contributions in a systematic manner. 
(5) Offering distinctive cutting-edge me dical science and highly advanced 
medical treatment 
By leveraging the functions that Hiroshim a University Hospital has performed as 
a central medical institution working in  cooperation with hub hospitals in each 
region, we intend to form an international center for radioactiv ity disaster medical 
care, given our historical ro le as a university that unde rpinned the rec onstruction of 
Hiroshima from the devastation of atomic  bombing. This will allow us to offer 
distinctive cutting-edge medicinal science and highly advanced medical treatment that will gain the highest possible re putation throughout the world. We will also 
deepen partnerships with universities wi th which we have signed international 
exchange agreements to develop young docto rs and medical prof essionals ready for 
international assignments, while at the same time upgrading and developing the university hospital into a facility that serves as a medical center for Asia that 
capitalizes on HU ’s unique characteristics. 
 
IV . Branding / Developing the fo undations for internationalization 
(1) Expanding international consortia 
We will take a proactive approach to bu ilding and utilizing consortia both at home 
and abroad in order to advance intern ational education jointly with partner 
 7 / 7 
 universities across the globe through cooperation with othe r member universities in 
various education and resear ch activities, thereby enhancing our competency for 
joint research. 
(2) Strengthening and utilizing overseas bases and an international alumni 
network 
Through cooperation with overseas bases an d the international alumni network, 
we will contribute to the international soci ety with ever-diversifying values, recruit 
quality international students, and fost er the development of human resources 
capable of offering services to the local community and international society alike. Our aim is to make our presence felt more  in the international society and strengthen 
our international competitiveness. 
(3) Enhancing public relations 
We will upgrade the means and contents of  our public relations activities in order 
to communicate desired information accurately, increase interest in study abroad at 
and joint research with HU, and enhance our reputation. 
(4) Developing an international-standard evaluation system 
In the hope of enhancin g international trust, we aim to establish “HU” as a brand 
that wins worldwide trust by creating a hyb rid of internationa l evaluation tools, 
accreditation standards, and other evaluation systems. 
(5) Realizing a global barrier-free campus th at serves as a place of learning for 
every member of HU 
We will ensure that international students  and researchers and staff members lead 
a comfortable life on campus, regardless of differences in language s and lifestyles or 
any disability they may have. Our goal is to provide a place of learning where every 
member of HU can realize how much they have grown, a free and peaceful campus where diversity is encouraged. 
