 1  
Vision and Strategies of Hitotsubashi Univer sity for a Designated National University 
 
Emerging as a Hub to Lead the Reform  of the Social Sciences in Japan 
Towards a More Sustainable Future 
 
 
I. Ideals and Objectives as a Designated National University 
 
1. To become an international hub for world-cl ass social science research and education and 
lead the reform of social sciences in Japan. 
 
Hitotsubashi University (hereinaft er “the University”) will celebra te its 150th anniversary in 2025. 
Since its founding, the University has worked to cultivate globall y competent individuals and to 
establish and advance practical kno wledge in the social sciences . Upholding this proud history and 
tradition, the University is now co mmitted to taking the lead in reforming the social sciences in 
Japan and becoming an international hub for world-cl ass social science rese arch and education. Its 
aim is to develop global leaders to reform soci ety through action and to generate the knowledge and 
social innovations needed to establish soci al and economic systems for a resilient world. 
As an institution dedicated to the various discip lines of the social scie nces, the University’s 
characteristics differ from those of both compre hensive universities, which encompass the natural 
sciences, life sciences, humanities and social scienc es, and single-discipline institutions specializing 
in particular fields such as me dicine. Globally, there are several universities that have similarly 
leveraged the features and strengths  of their focus on the social scie nces to establish a distinctive 
presence. Prominent examples include the London Sc hool of Economics and Political Science (LSE), 
Sciences Po, and Singapore Management University  (SMU). Hitotsubashi Un iversity is now aiming 
to develop competitive strengths in education and re search that are equal to or surpass the world’s 
top institutions across seven st rategic priority areas: Economi cs, Management, Accounting & 
Finance, Politics & International Studies, Psycho logy, Data Science, and Global Law. By doing so, 
the University seeks to become a diversified and highl y attractive hub for social science education 
and research where large-scale international joint research projects in the social sciences are 
conducted at the highest global standards; where outstanding faculty members and students gather 
from across the world; and where top-class young researchers build multitiered international 
networks. The University will also tackle the mo st pressing problems confronting our planet and 
human society, promote cocreation between the humanities and sciences and contribute to the 
generation and utilizatio n of “knowledge convergence,” share th e outcomes thereof with the broader 
society, and build its social reput ation. Through this positive cycle, it  will increasingly develop into a 
more advanced research and education hub. 
As a Designated National University in the social  sciences, the University will present a model for 
the global advancement of the Japanese social scie nces, playing a leading role  in significantly raising 
the standards of the social scie nces throughout Japan. Moreover, to achieve its institutional ideals 
while leveraging the distinctive features of its various fields of resear ch and education, the 
University will harness the nimblene ss of its small and smart organization to take a unified approach 
to strengthen international competitiveness a nd promote structural re form, with the entire 
 2organization working together in the same direction, at the same level, and at the same pace. Specific 
initiatives will include the promotion of greater diversity (internationalization and diversification of 
personnel) under the strong l eadership of the Universi ty President, the pursui t of a personnel strategy 
focused on accelerating the integrat ion of the humanities and sciences  from the standpoint of the 
social sciences that draws on the University’s stre ngths in empirical resear ch and its unique data 
infrastructure, and the functional strengthening of the Hitotsubashi Ins titute for Advanced Study 
(HIAS), a university-wide research organization. 
 
2. To analyze the strengths/features and weak nesses/challenges in re alizing “Hitotsubashi 
University as a Hub to Lead the Reform of the So cial Sciences in Japan,” and to carry out the 
necessary functional strengthening initiatives. 
 
Hitotsubashi University, as "a Hub to Lead the Re form of the Social Sciences in Japan," will 
generate world-class research outputs and innovations, cultivate highly skilled professionals, and 
expand its financial capacity to sustain and grow such initiatives on an ongoing basis. From these 
perspectives, the University will self-evaluate its distinctive strengths and potentials, and identify areas requiring further development and issues to be overcome, as we ll as formulate practical actions 
to strengthen essential functions. 
 (1) Current status of the University’s rese arch capabilities (weaknesses/challenges) 
Researchers at Hitotsubashi University, together w ith other social science researchers across Japan, 
are fully engaged in research activities that tackle a multitude of key social issues; however, the social sciences in Japan have not been suff iciently active in the creation of knowledge and 
dissemination of research outputs on the international stage. Below is  an international comparison of 
English-language research publicat ions across the th ree dimensions of quantity, quality, and “Atsumi 
(depth)” in specific fields. An assessment follows of the current state of the social sciences at 
Hitotsubashi University and in Japan, based on a comparison with three other universities with 
similar structures to Hitotsubas hi and outstanding inte rnational research track records — LSE, 
Sciences Po, and SMU — together with two leading national universities in Japan, The University of 
Tokyo and Kyoto University. The area of each circle represents Quan tity (number of publications), 
the vertical axis is Quality (FWC I), and the horizontal axis is Atsumi (institutional h-5 index). The 
larger the circle, the more outputs the institution generates; the higher up the circle, the more 
highly-cited outputs it generates; and the farther to th e right of the circle it is, the greater depth the 
institution has in terms of research talent.  
Economics, management, accounting & finance, and politics & international studies are the areas 
in which Hitotsubashi has already 
established strong res earch foundations and 
has significant potential for expanded 
international dissemination. Figure 1 shows 
performance in the fields of Business, Management, and Accounting. In these 
fields, LSE appears as a large circle in the 
upper right portion of the graph, indicating outstanding performance in Quality, 
Figure 1: Business, Management, and Accounting 
 3 Quantity, and Atsumi alike. SMU has a slightly lo wer level of Quantity, but similarly outstanding 
performance in Quality and Atsumi. (It should be noted that SMU also has a School of Information 
Systems, which may somewhat boost its scores in th e business and management fields.) Hitotsubashi 
University and other universities in Japan, along with Sciences P o, are considerably behind LSE in 
all three areas of Quantity, Quality, and Atsumi. Highly similar observations can be made in other 
fields as well. Figures 2 and 3 show results for Fina nce, Political Science, and International Relations, 
respectively. LSE remains preeminent in both fields, while Sciences Po also exhibits strong 
performance in the area of Political Science. Social sciences in Japan lag far behind. 
 
 
Internationally, the competitive position of social science research in Japan is relatively weak. One 
reason for this unsatisfactory perf ormance is Japan’s trad itional lack of emphasis on international 
outputs. The social sciences tend to focus on the problems that societies c onfront. They are also 
significantly influenced by the culture of the particular society where they are studied and possess local features unique to their cult ural sphere. The need to elucidate social problems with local 
nuances, yet express and communicate research findi ngs in the global lingua franca of English, tends 
to disadvantage researchers whose first language is  not English. This issue may also explain that 
even Sciences Po, with its larg e population of outstanding scholar s, has been unable to gain 
ascendancy over Anglophone universities. 
At the same time, however, we must acknowledge failings in the management of universities in 
Japan, Hitotsubashi University included, which have not undertak en the kind of bold strategic 
changes of direction required to boost international competitiveness significantly. It is essential for 
university leaders to confront the reality that the problems facing the social sciences in Japan are not 
only environmental and structural but are also pr oblems related to the domestic focus of social 
scientists themselves, together with a lack of decisive action on selection and concentration by 
university management.  
(2) Current status of the University’s fina ncial structures (weaknesses/challenges) 
One of the factors that have impeded the pursuit of a bold strategic shift is financial structure. As a 
precursor to the Designated National Universi ty Corporation system , national university 
corporatization had some effect in expanding the discretionary scope of individual universities, 
vitalizing education and research  activities, boosting external fundi ng, and enabling the adoption of 
more flexible and elastic salary structures such as annual salary systems. Compared with leading 
universities internationally, howev er, Japanese universities—Hito tsubashi included—still have a 
weak financial base, and need to  diversify and expand their fina ncial resources further. These 
Figure 2: Finance 
 Figure 3: Political Science and International Relations  
 4conditions are the context for another challenge faci ng the University, which is  the inadequacy of its 
efforts to secure stable posts for young researchers and to recruit internati onally talented faculty 
members strategically to compete with the world’s leading universities. 
Figure 4 compares the financial structure of Hito tsubashi University with  those of LSE, SMU, 
Sciences Po, and the University of St. Gallen,  a renowned German-language social sciences 
university that grew out of a uni versity of commerce in Switzerland.  This comparison reveals that 
LSE’s financial scale is approximately four times that of Hitotsubashi, SMU’s is three times, and 
those of St. Gallen and 
Sciences Po are approximately double. 
It also shows that all 
these overseas universities are larger 
than Hitotsubashi, and 
their revenue sources are also more diverse. 
At LSE, tuition 
accounts for a large proportion of revenue, 
while public funding is 
low. The other three institutions shown in 
the graph receive a 
substantial amount of public funding while also relying on a variety of other revenue sources. At SMU, tuition and 
endowment income account for high proportions. St. Gallen derives more  than half its revenue from 
public funding. Although its tuition revenue is low, it has a high-level of grants and subsidies for 
industry-academia-government research collaborati ons and executive education. At Sciences Po, 
public funding accounts for approximately one-half of  all revenue, and reliance on tuition revenue is 
also high. The financial structure of Hitotsubashi is similar to Sciences Po. 
Figure 5 shows the change over ten years th rough 2020 in annual tuition for domestic 
undergraduate students, internati onal undergraduate students, and gr aduate (MSc in Accounting and 
Finance) students at LSE, alongside the standard annual tuition for national universities in Japan. 
In 2011, tuition at LSE was as 
high as 14,592 pounds 
(approximately 2.19 million yen at an exchange rate of 150 yen to the 
pound) for international 
undergraduate students and 20,496 pounds (approximately 3.07 
million yen) for graduate students. 
Meanwhile, undergraduate tuition for UK citizens was set at 3,375 
Figure 4: 

 5 pounds (approx. 0.51 million yen), approximately the same  as tuition at national universities in Japan. 
However, tuition caps for UK citizens were raised in 2012 and 2014, and LSE increased its tuition on 
both these occasions to 8,500 pounds (approxima tely 1.28 million yen) in 2012 and 9,000 pounds 
(approximately 1.35 million yen) in 2014, and then again to 9,250 pounds (1.39 million yen) in 2017. 
Tuition for international students and graduate studen ts is even higher, having increased continuously 
over the same period. In contrast, tuition at Hito tsubashi University remained steady at 535,800 yen 
for the entire period; however, Hitotsubashi increased its tuition for undergraduate students by 20% 
to 642,960 yen. 
LSE’s revenue from tuition was approximately 1.6 times higher in 2016 than  it was in 2011, and 
overall revenue rose by 45% in the same period, from approximately 32.9 billion to approximately 
47.7 billion yen. Along with this growth in revenue came an increase in expenditures of 
approximately 40% and an approximately 13% increas e in the number of academic staff. Meanwhile, 
Hitotsubashi University’s budget was virtually un changed throughout this pe riod, and the number of 
academic staff declined by 3.4% under the pressure of increasing costs in other areas (for more 
information on the change in the financial struct ure of LSE and Hitotsubashi, see Table A in the 
Appendix). While universities acro ss the world are proactively di versifying and increasing their 
revenue, increasing their staff of researchers to tack le social problems, and enhancing their education 
to cultivate highly skilled individu als, Hitotsubashi and other social  science universi ties and faculties 
in Japan have prioritized immediate cost-cutting actions from year to year over the proactive 
investment in research and educa tion. The prioritization of science and engineering since the postwar 
era in Japanese university policy is another factor that helps account for the gap in financing between 
universities in Japan and those in  Europe and North America.   
Although the problems of the social sciences in Japan are difficult to perceive in comprehensive 
universities, where they are obs cured by large-scale science and engineering operations, they are 
readily and symbolically visible in the case of Hitots ubashi University. It is precisely for this reason 
that Hitotsubashi’s initiatives to boost internati onal competitiveness will provide an important model 
for the future reform of social  science faculties throughout Japan. 
 
(3) Contributions and assets of Hitots ubashi University (strengths/features) 
Hitotsubashi University and other social science universities/faculties in Japan have the potential 
to achieve major growth through future management reforms. Despite the low level of resources, 
they have a track record  of producing outstanding domestic tale nt and high-quality national research 
outputs. While still insufficient, efforts for the inte rnationalization of research  and education are also 
advancing. Hitotsubashi University has achieved a position of 71st in the QS World University 
Rankings for the broad subject area of Social Scie nces & Management and is  placed in the 51–100 
range in five specific subject ar eas (2018 results). Thus, there is a strong foundation for contributing 
to the global academic community and producing gl obal talent by accelerating the pace at which 
research energies previously directed to the domes tic academic community are reoriented toward the 
production of international outputs.   [1] Strengths of education and talent development 
Hitotsubashi University has particular strengths in the cultivation of talent for business and 
industry and contributes to providing the human resources needed for th e effective operation and 
advancement of the economy and society. The Un iversity proclaims that its concept for human 
 6resource development is to produce “Captains of Industry,” and its approach to small-group 
education centered on seminar classes has fostered ta lent to support many areas of Japanese society, 
especially in business and industry. 
As confirmation of these achieve ments, Table 1 offers a Japa n-UK comparison of alumni of 
different universities who work as corporate executive officers and the aggregate market value of the 
companies they manage. 
First, the table shows the pr oportion of alumni from various  universities among the executive 
officers of companies listed on stock exchanges in Japan and on the London Stock Exchange. This 
shows each university’s share of corporate executives. To facilitate further international comparison, 
these executive shares have also been multiplied by the companies’ capitalization on the Japanese or 
London stock exchanges to produce values that indi cate the market value generated and managed 
indirectly by each university through its alumni. Th ese figures are termed “indirect market value.” 
Both executive share and indirect market value ar e inevitably larger for universities with larger 
student populations, so the values are divided by  each university’s enrollment quota for a single-year 
cohort to produce the “cohort-adjusted executive shar e and indirect market value.” The results, 
shown in Table 1, reveal that Hitotsubashi University holds the top place in Japan for the 
cohort-adjusted executive share, followed by the University of Tokyo, Ke io University, Kyoto 
University, and Waseda University. For the cohort- adjusted indirect market value, if the Tohoku 
University value is given as 1.0,  Hitotsubashi stands at 4.37 and the University of Tokyo at 4.29, 
showing that they are more efficient and effectiv e than the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge 
and LSE, which range from 2.33 to 2.92. Along with th e University of Tokyo, Ke io University (2.35), 
Kyoto University (2.34), Waseda University (1.53), among others, Hitotsubashi University can be 
considered to have contributed to  the development of superior ta lent for the Japanese economy. A 
more detailed version of Table 1 can be found in  Appendix Table B at the end of this document. 
Today, when graduate schools are expected to in corporate high-level resear ch into their teaching 
of professionals, the strengthening of research capabilities is esse ntial. Even so, the small-group 
seminar education model developed at Hitotsubash i University and other educational methodologies 
in social science universities and faculties in Japan will surely prove important assets in international 
competitiveness in the future. 
 
 
 
Table 1 
 7 [2] Development of research capabilities a nd potential to contribute to the world 
Hitotsubashi University has produ ced high-level research outputs and made major intellectual 
contributions, primarily to the Japanese academic community and society as a whole. The same high 
standards are observable in terms of quality as well as quantity. An example can be found in the 
results of the Nikkei Prize for Excellent Books in Economic Science, awarded for outstanding 
research in economics and management. If the result s over the past five year s are scored based on 
each awardee’s institution of affiliation at the time of the award and institution at which they 
completed their doctoral program,  Hitotsubashi Univers ity and the University  of Tokyo are both 
ranked first, with approximately 20% of the total each or 40% combined. Awardees include 
researchers affiliated with universities in Japa n and in other countries, and the prizewinning 
publications include Englis h-language texts, meaning that the pr ize is assessed at an international 
standard and the winning books are of high-qual ity. If Hitotsubashi University has already 
established the groundwork required to  generate this high-level of research, it is not impossible to 
increase the University’s international competitiveness through priority initiatives in the future.     
Empirical research on social problems in Japan, which are similar to those of other advanced 
countries, has an especially high potential to contribute  to society in ways different from the research 
undertaken in the advanced countries of Europe and North America. Japan achieved a miraculous 
economic recovery and high economic growth, fo llowed by the bursting of its economic bubble and 
subsequent economic stagnation, along with the onset of a super-aging society. Distinctive empirical 
research on this experience will provide importa nt insights not only for economics and management, 
but also in the fields of law a nd sociology. Hitotsubashi University has traditional strengths in using 
unique data infrastructure for empirical research  to study the problems confronting Japan, identify 
the mechanisms behind them, and generate ideas for their resolution; thus, the University can 
contribute to social innov ation and, consequently, to the global community. 
[3] Internationalization of research and educ ation, proactive advancement of cocreation 
between natural and social sciences 
The remaining challenge for social science univers ities/faculties in Japan, including Hitotsubashi 
University, is the internationalization of research  and education. Universi ties have already made 
steady efforts to tackle this issue and have achie ved some success, but there is a need for greater 
internationalization. The acceleration of efforts to generate global research outputs, including the 
deployment of the ability to pr oduce books and journal articles in English, is key to the 
internationalization agenda. 
Resolving social problems into the future will re quire even greater cocreation between the natural 
and social sciences. The boundary between the natu ral sciences and life sc iences, on the one hand, 
and humanities and social sciences, on the othe r, is growing increasingly vague, and the 
interpenetration of conventional disciplines con tinues to advance. These changes will drive the 
generation of emergent knowledge th at resolves the social problem s of the future. Hitotsubashi 
University has a record of proactive advancemen t of cocreation between the natural and social 
sciences from the standpoint of the social scien ces, through initiatives such as the Union of Four 
Universities in Tokyo (which brings Hitotsubashi University together with the Tokyo Medical and 
Dental University, Tokyo Univers ity of Foreign Studies, and Tokyo Institute of Technology) and a 
comprehensive partnership agreement with the Nati onal Institute of Advanced  Industrial Science and 
Technology (AIST). With the goal of addressing th e problems that will confront society in the 
 8coming years, Hitotsubashi University is well-positione d to play a leading role in the development of 
humanities and sciences cocreation that involves the social sciences making inroads into science and 
technology disciplines, rather than  those disciplines crossing boundari es into the social sciences. 
 
(4) Roundtable for the advancement of the social sciences in japan 
In March 2018, Hitotsubashi University establis hed the Roundtable for the Advancement of the 
Social Sciences in Japan, a forum for gathering ideas from Japan and internationally and discussing 
approaches to reforming the social sciences in  Japan. Membership of the Roundtable includes 
prominent Japanese figures together with the Presidents of LSE, Sciences Po, SMU, and other experts in university management, all contributing to vigor ous discussions. 
In the future, the Roundtable will be utilized as a kind of “management advisory committee” of 
the University, while we keep providing in formation and generati ng useful knowledge and 
approaches to reshaping the social sciences in Japa n. Hitotsubashi University will also take the lead 
in pursuing reforms designed to raise the interna tional competitiveness of the social sciences in 
Japan and make intellectual contributions to the so cial sciences globally. We will disseminate these 
initiatives as model cases to catalyze fundamental reform of the so cial sciences in Japan as a whole. 
The following three key themes have emerged out of the numerous opinions  put forward at the 
Roundtable meetings to date.  
[1] Educational capabilities:  It is essential to develop the ab ility of logical thinking from the 
undergraduate level, with even gr eater sophistication at the gradua te level. In social sciences 
education, it is important to cultiv ate students capable of formulati ng original questions and tackling 
those questions scientifically when they start work ing in society. Thus, it is appropriate to require 
both originality and theoretical rigor in undergradua te theses. Educational practice of this type 
requires the expertise of researchers working on th e front lines of their fi elds globally. Moreover, 
international corporations today make use of empl oyees with advanced and specialized educational 
credentials. In Japan, too, there is a need for indi viduals who have complete d specialized education 
in the social sciences at the graduate level to take up active roles in the corporate world. 
[2] Research capabilities: The key to research strengthening is interdisciplin ary organization. A 
common feature observed in the universities manage d by international member s of the Roundtable is 
the use of thematic, interdisciplinary research organi zations to deal flexibly with social issues that 
may arise. Examples include SMU’s Centre for Research on Successful Ageing (ROSA), Sciences 
Po’s Medialab (a joint organization combining soci ology, computer science, and other disciplines), 
and LSE’s International Inequalities Institute. However, while the use of interdisciplinary organizations is a featur e that these institutions have in co mmon, the strategies used to recruit 
talented researchers vary considerably. Some institutions (such as LSE) offer high salaries, while 
others (Sciences Po) place emphasis on fosteri ng younger researchers in postdoctoral positions. 
Approaches to recruiting research ers should be considered in light  of the institutio nal environment 
and the strategies of the university. 
[3] Management capabilities:  Pursuing grants to cover the increase in operating expenses is 
important, but at the same time, it is essential for universities to embark on their own efforts. Waste 
should be completely eliminated, es pecially in areas not directly related to th e quality of education 
and research. In this respect, there is much scop e for a reassessment of approaches to university 
management, and it is important to cultivat e personnel for proper uni versity administration. 
 9 Consideration should also be give n to raising tuition fo r educational programs as a means to boost 
revenue. When doing so, it will be essential to iden tify which programs best reflect the University’s 
educational and research strengths a nd offer educational services that are so critical to society that 
there is no substitute for them. 
[4] Cocreation between the humanities and sciences: A problem has been identified in the 
tendency of research policies to heavily invest funds in  project-based resear ch designed to solve 
short-term problems, while neglec ting curiosity-driven research that  may yield greater benefits for 
society in the long-term. Predicti ng major structural changes from a long-term persp ective requires 
the integration of knowledge from across many discip lines; thus, a long-term approach needs to be 
taken to subsidize and allocate resour ces to interdisciplinary research. 
[5] Cocreation with society (industr y-government-academia collaboration): Because social 
science research tends to emphasize the novelty of  its approaches, such research is not easily 
connected with outcomes that interest businesses, wh ich makes collaboration difficult. It is desirable 
to clarify, from the business perspective, how co llaboration between social  science research and 
business can be advanced, using examples of best practices such as the Collaboration Center’s work 
to facilitate matching. 
 
3. To build on the University’s strengths and featur es to pursue contributions to global welfare, 
which is the University’s mission, redefine the University’s basic objectives as a Designated 
National University corporation, and accelerate  initiatives toward raising international 
competitiveness in research and education. 
 
Hitotsubashi University’s mission is to contribute  to global welfare: “t o create intellectual and 
cultural property which will contribute to the bu ilding of free and peacef ul political and economic 
societies in Japan and the world and to train those who will assume positions of leadership” 
(Hitotsubashi University Mission Statement). We st rive to advance reforms for a better society by 
generating knowledge that yields so cial benefits and fosters leaders capable of executing the reforms; 
we do these things not only within Japan but al so with a global outlook. This is the mission of 
Hitotsubashi University. 
Our particular strengths are in empirical research ut ilizing the University’s substantial data 
infrastructure, and thorough, attentive education based on small-group seminar classes. All the 
projects conducted at Hitots ubashi University under the 21st Century COE and Global COE 
programs (3 and 2 projects, respectively) were resear ch endeavors closely attune d to social realities, 
characterized especially by the co llection and analysis of unique da ta sets and the production of 
original empirical insights gr ounded in theory. The observation of societies undergoing dramatic 
change and the generation of knowledge to serve soci al innovation is characte ristic of research at 
Hitotsubashi University. Moreover, in the course of developing data infrastructure and pursuing 
empirical research, the University cultivates gra duate students through on-the-job training (OJT) 
programs. In this way, we are engaged in distinctive processe s of both knowledge creation and 
research talent development ut ilizing data infrastructure.  
The University has also been developing a track  record in the training of professionals for 
practical roles in society. We will maintain the University’s position as a center for high-quality 
education in which cutting- edge empirical research is fed back in to educational prac tice, both at the 
 10undergraduate level, as has been the case traditionally , and in professional education at the master’s 
level. The small-group seminar model has not only been successful in undergraduate education, but 
is also pursued in master’s-lev el professional education. In progr ams such as those offered by the 
Law School, whose cumulative pass rates for the Bar Examination ar e the highest in Japan, and the 
Business School and School of International and Public Policy, which place emphasis on workshops 
and other small-group, seminar-style formats, tale nted researchers provide  each student with a 
thorough and theoretically ri gorous education. From an internat ional perspective, there is ample 
scope for the deployment of this distinctive educational method to enhance Hitotsubashi’s 
international competitiveness. Strengths of this type shall be preserved as cornerstones of the 
University’s education, which must not be lost in the pursuit of future reforms. 
Over the next ten years, Hitotsubashi University will build on these strengths to achieve 
substantial improvements in the international co mpetitiveness of social science research and 
education. Strategic Priority Areas will be selected  and synergies generated between newly appointed 
and existing members of academic staff, leading to a dramatic acceleration in research and 
educational competitiveness internationally. 
As a result of these efforts, we aim to achie ve a top-30 position in th e QS World University 
Rankings in the Social Sciences & Manageme nt in ten years’ time (rank in 2018 was 71st), and a 
top-ten ranking in twenty years’ time. Moreover, we aim to achieve top-30 rankings in the fields of 
Economics & Econometrics, Business & Management Studies, Accounting & Finance, and Politics 
& International Studies (all ranked in the 51–100 range in 2018) in ten years’ time. 
  
II. Hitotsubashi University’s Aims for Function al Strengthening as a Designated National 
University Corporation 
 
1. The University’s strategic scenarios for reform (at the time of application) 
The University will strengthen its governance and financial base to  support reform, with a focus 
on building research capability an d applying research findings to education and wider society. In 
doing so, it will prioritize areas where the resolution of  the social issues and the establishment of an 
international track record can both be achieved, in turn enhanc ing the University’s presence 
internationally in a positive cycle. The following st rategic scenarios for reform will be pursued to 
realize these objectives, informed by the self-assessment presented above. 
 
[1] Selection and concentration to bolster research capability 
We will select as Strategic Priority Areas those areas  of research in which there is a need to resolve 
international problems and in which insights from  Japan are acknowledged as making an important 
international contribution. First among these are th e areas in which Hitots ubashi already has strong 
research foundations and potential for expa nded international dissemination: economics, 
management, accounting & finance, and politics & international studies. Other areas poised to 
become priority areas are psycholog y, data science, and Global Law.  As these new areas grow, in the 
future we will strategically revi ew the organization, including that  of undergraduate faculties, and 
will give priority to allocating new faculty positions to these areas. 
 
 11[2] Establishment of a world-class research workforce 
(a) Net increase of 60 faculty positions: We will incr ease our number of researchers in the priority 
areas by 30 in the five years beginning with the 2020 ac ademic year (AY2020) and to a total of 
approximately 60 in ten years. This  represents an increase of approxi mately ten% in five years and 
20% in ten years over the University’s current (A Y2018) academic staff of 309 (lecturer and higher 
positions). This increase will accelerate the in ternationalization of research and bring our 
student-to-teacher ratio to a leve l comparable to that of LSE. 
(b) Utilization of retiree replacemen ts: We anticipate that 17 retiring  faculty members will need to 
be replaced in AY2019, followed by an additional 75 over the five years be ginning in AY2020. When 
making these replacements, we will place greater emphasis on candidates’ international track records. 
Combining this total of 92 replacements over the next six years with the 30 new positions to be 
created over five years from AY2020 yields a tota l of 122 new faculty appointments. Many of these 
122 will be international re searchers. The impact  of these moves is sure to  be significant , given that 
these 122 new positions and replacements amount to  approximately 40% of the current faculty 
population of 309. Pursuing this large- scale transformation of our facu lty profile concurrently with 
the reform of research structures and systems is expected to lead to  great improvements in the quality 
of research and education. Over the next deca de, the acceleration of both replacements and new 
positions will see the University grow rapidly into a research hub that generates numerous international outputs. 
(c) Synergic effects of interdisci plinary research structure: In line with suggestions from the 
Roundtable, we will take preemptive action to addre ss the problems that will confront future society 
by flexibly and promptly establishing interdiscip linary research centers th at boost our new research 
output and enhance our contributions to wider society. These new research centers will be 
established within the HIAS, es tablished in 2014 as a cross-depa rtmental research organization 
positioned directly under the President. While na rrowing down the focus to areas in which both 
contributions to addressing social problems and in ternational dissemination of research findings are 
possible, projects in these interdisciplinary resear ch centers will enable ne wly appointed researchers 
to work together with researchers continuing their wo rk in areas of established strengths to generate 
synergies, thereby improving the inte rnational research and educational capabilities of the University 
as a whole. 
 
[3] Reinvestment of research outcomes in society and education 
We will further invigorate international joint re search as another way of achieving a dramatic 
increase in international research output. Joint resear ch with AIST will also be promoted with a view 
to addressing social problems. As a research hub open to Japan and the world, we will pursue 
knowledge creation and share the outcomes with the wider society. This knowledge and the 
infrastructure that enables it will also be fed b ack into education at the undergraduate and graduate 
levels to advance the cultivation of  a wide range of high-level talent. 
 
[4] Strengthening of the fi nancial base and establishment of a virtuous cycle 
Augmentation of the financial base is essential for pursuing large-scale reforms. Hitotsubashi 
University will work to improve the efficiency of university management by eliminating waste and 
by building rational and efficient operational processes throughout th e university organization. At the 
 12same time, as shown in Figure 6, we will raise revenue through the development of the University’s 
own sources of funding and use that 
revenue for further enhancement of research and educational capacity 
that will, in turn, lead to more 
revenue, in a virtuous growth cycle. 
First, while securing equality of 
opportunity, we will raise 
undergraduate tuition by approximately 20% and use the 
revenue generated thereby to 
increase the number of internati onal faculty members, improve stude nt-to-teacher ratios, and provide 
students with more sophisticated education, especi ally in the area of gl obal education. Using the 
Global Leaders’ Program already la unched in four undergraduate faculti es as a core initiative, we 
will increase the number of lecture courses offere d in the English-language and introduce a Dual 
Seminar System under which students can elect to take an English-medium seminar class as an 
adjunct to their seminar in Japanese. New faculty  appointments over the first five years will be 
funded by this tuition increase. We will also expand other sources of funding by promoting 
commissioned and joint research  projects with companies and governmental aut horities and by 
developing additional executive prog rams. The effects of these initiatives will become apparent in 
the sixth to the tenth year. Furthermore, in the event that deregulatory measures are permitted for 
Designated National University in the future, we  will incrementally raise tuition for the MBA 
programs beyond 20%, strengthening and stabilizing University revenue while enhancing our 
educational programs. We will pur sue a progressive cycle of produc tion by utilizing these revenue 
increases to recruit more faculty and further e nhance the commissioned research and executive 
programs. 
 
[5] Strengthening of the university governance 
The strong leadership of the Univer sity President is essential to th e selection of and concentrated 
investment of research and educational resources  in Strategic Priority Areas, as well as the 
maintenance of a personnel system that emphasizes international output. We will establish systems to 
underpin this presidential lead ership, as well as strengthen governance structures that check 
presidential power from external points of view . We will also create professional development 
programs for university administrato rs. To train individuals in rese arch and education to undertake 
University reforms and University management, we  will develop educati onal programs combining 
courses offered across different departments of the University. 
 
[6] Enhancement of diverse educational and research areas 
Once we have initiated a virtuous cycle by placi ng emphasis on areas that combine the resolution 
of social problems and internati onal outputs, thereby boosting the Univ ersity’s interna tional presence, 
stable revenue increases will enable us to generate resources for the enhancement of other 
educational and research areas. First, we will i nvest resources in strengthening the Law School, 
which already enjoys a highly distinguished re putation. The importance of legal professional Figure 6: 

 13education will increase as society becomes more complex. Hitotsubashi University will work to 
cultivate legal professionals to pl ay active roles on the world stage. In philosophy, history, and other 
humanities that furnish the foundations of the social sciences, as well as mathematics and other areas, 
there will be scope to employ out standing researchers and develop structures enabling them to 
concentrate exclusively on educatio n and research. As society conf ronts challenges related to the 
social application of science, technology, and AI, global social di sparities, and healthcare provision 
in the context of aging, it will be essential to refer back to ph ilosophy, ideas, history, and other 
fundamentals of the humanities. Maintaining a solid commitment to these fundamentals is an 
important precondition for advancem ent of the social sciences. 
 
[7] Impacts on other social scien ce universities/faculties in Japan 
The process of establishing the virtuous cycles  outlined above over th e next ten years at 
Hitotsubashi University will generate impacts on other social science universities and faculties in 
Japan. First, as we promote international joint research initiatives and research partnerships with 
industry, academia, and government, we will build re search networks incorporating researchers from 
other universities, functioning as a research hub within Japan and beyond. Also, the publication of 
the discussions of the Roundtable and progress on re forms at Hitotsubashi University will furnish 
important information to inform reforms at other so cial science universities and faculties. Moreover, 
our University Administrator Development Program s will begin within Hitotsubashi University but 
will gradually be opened up to other participants, contributing to society as a type of education 
infrastructure for individuals involved in highe r education administratio n in Japan. Through these 
impacts, Hitotsubashi University will become a catalyst for social science reform in Japan. 
 
2. Specific initiatives to advance the University’s vi sion and strategies and relationship with the 
six elements expected of a Designated National University 
 
(1) Governance strengthening through the Presiden t’s leadership (related to “strengthening of 
research capabilities,” “international cooperation  and collaboration,” and “strengthening of 
governance”) 
The President will exercise str ong leadership toward th e concentration of re search and education 
resources in strategic priority areas for the Universi ty as a whole. In the areas of faculty personnel 
and evaluation and reallocation of resources to bolster internationa l competitiveness, governance will 
be strengthened by a thorough resu lts-based allocation a pproach reflecting im partial evaluation. 
Moreover, while leveraging its cohesiveness and nimbleness as a social science university, to 
establish governance system s as part of management to underpin  international comp etitiveness, the 
University will utilize external  perspectives through bodies su ch as the Roundtable for the 
Advancement of the Social Sciences in Japan a nd the Hitotsubashi Global Advisory Board. It will 
also review the University’s executive structures as necessary.   
 
 [1] Strengthening university-wide personnel g overnance for internationalization of the faculty 
As part of the strategy for the expansion and enhancement of re search personnel,  the President 
will exercise strong leadership in the application of key personnel rules relating to the selection of 
strategic priority areas and the consistent observance of in ternational performance standards. 
Recruitment of a total of 122 faculty members ove r the six years starting  in 2019, comprising 30 
 14newly created positions and 92 to replace retiring faculty, will generate synergies between newly 
appointed researchers and the many  existing faculty members already pursuing international research, 
significantly increasing the University’s internati onal competitiveness. HIAS will play the core role 
in pioneering novel fields of research unfette red by conventional disciplinary frameworks and 
boundaries and creating new knowledge that responds appropriately to the complex demands of the 
era. To achieve these goals, the Un iversity will strengthen its allia nces with AIST and the Union of 
Four Universities in Tokyo. 
Both new and replacement appointments will be made following deliberation of each hiring plan 
in the Committee for University-wide Personnel ch aired by the President, based on standards for 
making contributions to the Univer sity’s internationaliz ation strategy, such as the production of 
international outputs. Appointments to newly created  faculty positions will be made in Strategic 
Priority Areas determined by the Committee for Strate gic Priority Areas also chaired by the President. 
As replacements for retiring faculty members, ca ndidates will be select ed who can fulfill new 
University-wide missions of research and education as well as the missions of existing departments. 
A rigorous selection process will be followed in accordance with standards such as journal rankings 
in which candidates have publishe d articles and the number of c itations, taking into account the 
characteristics of each research field. Incentives to  achieve an increase in international research 
outputs (international joint rese arch projects and internationa l coauthored papers) will be 
strengthened, and the specified annual salary system will be used to provide star researchers already 
achieving high standards of performa nce with even higher salaries, in combination with the use of 
cross-appointment systems to boost effectiveness. In itiatives will also be pursued to improve the 
effectiveness of faculty  performance evaluations from the standpoint of strengthening personnel 
governance. A strategic approach to personnel will be taken base d on the university-wide personnel 
roadmap designed to achieve an ideal age, gender, and international profile of the faculty, with 
progress closely monitored by a uni versity-wide personnel committee. 
For the discretionary funds that can be deployed st rategically by the President, the University is 
reviewing individual initiatives from  the ground up that take into account the perspectives of social 
impact and the establishment of  a world-class education and re search hub based on quantitative 
indicators. The allocation of funds will reflect this  evaluation. The University will also take other 
steps to enhance the reallocation of internal resources, such as  establishing a new Designated 
National University promotion fund, reducing the va lue of research funds previously allocated 
uniformly based on the number of faculty, adjusting allocations ba sed on the performance evaluation 
of each organizational unit, and re structuring financial resources to provide incentives to improve 
international performance. 
 
[2] World-class global talent procurement program in HIAS 
To further accelerate the Univers ity’s international competitiven ess in the fourth medium-term 
goals period, the University will seek to become a hub  of international mobility  in the social sciences 
by actively inviting and hosting di stinguished scholars and young re searchers expected to produce 
international outputs. Specifically, internal personnel funds will be strategically concentrated under 
the President’s leadership to enable HIAS to  pursue a World-class Global Talent Procurement 
Program (HIAS BRIDGES) comprisi ng the following two projects. 
 
 15(a) Young Researcher Development Program (HIAS BRIDGES Next) 
With a focus on the strategic priority areas, HI AS will use an international open recruitment 
process to appoint young re searchers to five-year terms and provide an environment enabling them 
to focus on their research. This project will be u ndertaken on an unprecedented scale, with a total of 
45 appointees over a five-year period. Approxim ately 25 top-class young researchers will be 
appointed for five-year terms as full-time lect urers by 2023, with another 20 young researchers 
currently developing a research tr ack record to be appointed on the same basis. These appointees will 
be exempt as much as possible from internal univer sity duties to enable them to devote themselves 
exclusively to their research, and they will be act ively encouraged to pursue research exchanges with 
established researchers, under the mentorship of existing faculty members of the University. To 
provide a greater sense of secur ity for the appointees to focus on their research activities, a 
university-wide research support organization will be  established and other forms of assistance 
strengthened, such as support for researchers’ family members. The University will focus on the 
appointment of young researchers wi th high publication prod uctivity, initiating know ledge clusters in 
the strategic priority areas and raising the Univer sity’s reputation for developing into a “hub for the 
social sciences” where top-class young researchers form multitiered networks. 
 
(b) World-class Researcher Invitation Project (HIAS BRIDGES Distinguished) 
Distinguished world-class scholars will be invited to the University for fixed terms with special 
appointments as professors and visiting professors involved in active exchanges with the 
University’s researchers, mainly the young res earchers in HIAS. The University will develop 
systems enabling a variety of invitational modes by offering high salaries through the specified 
annual salary system and through the flexible deployment of systems such as those for specially 
appointed professors and cross-appoi ntments. These will be used as catalysts for international joint 
research projects built on existing synergies with University faculty members and young researchers. 
The new faculty members joining the Univers ity over the six years will be involved in 
interdisciplinary research projects in HIAS, generati ng synergic effects that build on the networks of 
domestic and international researchers and Japa nese companies held by researchers already at 
Hitotsubashi University, dynamically advancing the University’s production of international outputs. 
For example, projects on medical economics, social  implementation of science and technology, and 
other topics which bring together scholars of ec onomics, law, sociology, management, and other 
fields from different discipline s will be meaningful for both new and existing faculty members. New 
appointees will benefit from access to data infrast ructure related to Japan’s experience with many 
challenges before the rest of the world while existing faculty will be strongly motivated to pursue 
further internationalization. Moreov er, researchers from other unive rsities and research institutes 
both within and outside Japan will be encouraged to participate in joint research projects, providing 
significant impacts to raisi ng the standard of Japa nese social sciences. 
 
ሾ3] Emphasis on systems to guarantee sound governance from external and diverse 
perspectives 
The University already has a system to guarantee the soundness of its governance from an external 
perspective in the form of the Roundtable for th e Advancement of the Soci al Sciences in Japan. 
Additionally, it has adopted mechanisms for obtaining input and appraisals from the University as 
 16well as other social science universities and f aculties across Japan. The University has also 
established the Hitotsubashi Globa l Advisory Board, comprising indi viduals with pr esidential and 
vice-presidential experience at benchmark instituti ons and major international partner institutions, 
who provide recommendations from an international perspective to the University’s President on 
matters including university management, education, and research activities. The University will use 
the substantive discussions of this  Board to strengthen its manageme nt insights from universities in 
other countries that have overcome si milar challenges and achieved growth. 
Since April 2022, the University ha s maintained an equal number of male and female external 
members of the Management Council, as well as  elected four female Education and Research 
Council members. One woman was appointed as a Graduate School Dean in May 2022 and another 
as Vice-President for Public Relations and Diversity  in September of the same year, with both 
joining the Education and Research  Council. Under the President’s l eadership, greater diversity will 
be achieved in the University’s other executive structures as well. 
 
(2) Comprehensive internationalization of research and education and strengthening of 
international competitiveness (related to “strengthening of research capabilities,” 
“international cooperation and collaboratio n,” and “strengthening of governance”) 
With the of achieving comprehensive internat ionalization and strengthening international 
competitiveness, the University will reform its research and education organizations, including 
significantly bolstering the functions of HIAS as a highly nimble and flexible organization that spans 
and integrates different arms of  the University. Within ten year s, we will double the university-wide 
total number of publications in E nglish to 300 annually, and achieve a ranking in the top 30 of QS 
World University Rankings in the Broad Subj ect Area of Social Sciences & Management. 
 
[1] Functional strengthening of HIAS in strategic priority areas 
The University will strengthen cross-departmental research by concentrating its existing research 
centers and establishing new centers under the HIAS um brella. In addition to the centers established 
in the third medium-term goals period, to address the strategic priority areas established at the 
beginning of the fourth period, th e University has established ( ⅰ) the Research Center for Data-driven 

 17Society and (ii) the Hitotsubashi International Center of Research and Training of Economic 
Measurements (Hi-CEM), Furthermore, it has relocated (iii) the Research Center for Asia Policy 
Studies to HIAS. The University will continue to  promote research direct ed toward problem-solving 
and making policy recommendations, establishing new centers to address specific social issues in 
environmental economics, global governance, and psychology, among other areas. As researchers 
within the University and invited researchers purs ue joint research, they will foster synergies and 
quickly enhance the University’s academic potentia l. The centers within HIAS will run individual 
research projects over periods of 2–3 years, and their research achievem ents will be assessed 
according to international standards. If necessary, research centers will be reformed, restructured, 
and eliminated. By assigning faculty member to  HIAS to focus on research and strengthening 
research support structures such as the URA or ganization, the University  will create a highly 
attractive academic community that brings together outstanding international talent. 
 
ሾ2ሿ Synergies between Hitotsubashi social sc iences and Social Data Science (SDS) 
The University will proactively advance cocreation between the humanities and sciences centered 
on HIAS. The Research Center for Data-driven Soci ety is composed mainly of faculty members of 
the new Faculty and Graduate School of SDS. Integrating the social sciences and data science, SDS 
will discover and define appropriate issues in co mplex and rapidly-changing contemporary societies, 
collect and analyze essential data, open up new disc iplinary frontiers to enable the insights gained 
from such analysis to be applied to society in practice, and train individuals capable of undertaking 
these tasks. Outside SDS, many faculty members of the University are engaged in research-related to 
data science. In addition to areas of traditional st rength such as statistics, mathematical finance, and 
accounting, some researchers in the humanities di sciplines, such as quantitative history and 
stylometry, also perform quantitative analysis , meaning that approximately one-half of the 
University’s full-time faculty members are able to collaborate with SDS. By participating in joint 
research projects in HIAS, these faculty members will create the new academic field of social data 
science-based on university -wide collaboration, forming the hub of an international research network 
in social and economic information and data analys is for the purpose of cont ributing to the resolution 
of complex social issues. 
 
[3] Promotion of cocreation between the human ities and sciences and international joint 
research 
With HIAS as the mainstay, we will take a univers ity-wide approach to partnerships with external 
research institutions, and proactively advance cocreation between the natural and social sciences. 
The Research Center for Health Policy and Ec onomics is already building close cooperative 
relationships in both research and graduate educat ion with the Tokyo Medical and Dental University 
and Tokyo Institute of Technology. The comprehensiv e partnership agreement with AIST signed in 
2016 is producing joint resear ch on topics such as data design and social implementation of science 
and technology and plans to collaborate on educational programs. In these ways, we will expand our joint and commissioned research with external research institutes, companies, governmental 
authorities, auditing companies, and other partners, and use these partnerships to drive a significant 
upsurge in research output. Moreov er, interdisciplinary applied research across natural and social 
sciences will also inspire the re vitalization of basic re search inquiring into fundamental principles. 
 18Thus, from the standpoint of the social sciences, Hitotsubashi University will contribute to the 
generation of new fields of research  that help address social problem s, as well as to the successive 
formation of interdisciplinary fields activating the creation of new knowledge. 
HIAS will also be the driving force for further st rengthening the University’s international joint 
research. The Research Center for Health Policy  and Economics has embarked on joint research 
projects with SMU’s CREA and has already hosted several joint international research conferences. 
We will continue to prioritize international joint research on key social problems, utilizing forums 
such as the Societal Impact and Global Manage ment Alliance (SIGMA), a worldwide alliance of 
nine social science universities , including SMU and Hitotsubashi. 
The areas to be targeted for priority enhancemen t over the first five years (economics, finance, 
management, politics/international re lations, psychology, data science, and Global Law) are those in 
which the university already has an outstanding gr oup of researchers and a solid research base, or 
areas in which we are seeking rapid development in the immediate future. Through the concentrated 
investment of research resources in these areas, we  will first improve their in ternational visibility and 
then recruit outstanding international researcher s and outstanding graduate students from other 
countries. 
 
[4] Emphasis on international track record in  appointments and increase in international 
research outputs (progress toward achi evement of international benchmarks) 
The University has made raising its number of English-language publications a priority throughout 
the third medium-term goals period , prioritizing international track  records in the appointment of 
faculty members and instituting programs for intens ive support of international joint research in 
HIAS, resulting in a steady improvement in perform ance. Of the 94 full-time faculty appointments in 
the three-year period ending May 2022, approximately 80% (74) were appointments that prioritized 
international experience, and 20% (17) of the appointees were of non-Japanese. Faculty members 
newly appointed under this priority system have  more English-language publications, higher FWCI 
scores, and higher percentages of in ternational coauthored publications  than the University’s current 
faculty members. 
The average number of papers published in intern ational peer-reviewed journals in the field of 
economics by the 44 faculty members (including multiple affiliations) affiliated with HIAS (which 
account for approximately 15% of all regular Un iversity faculty members) was 0.73 per faculty 
member annually in the 2017–2021 peri od. This figure is almost iden tical to the 0.74 per faculty 
member annually published in the field of economi cs by the top 500 active authors affiliated with 
LSE, one of the world’s top institutions. The 
activities of HIAS are also generating ripple effects across the University, with the number of 
English-language outputs—one of the 
university-wide indicators used for international university rankings—rising from 109 in 2013 to 
184 in 2021, an increase of 69%. 
As a result, the number of English-language 
outputs is steadily growing toward the 2023 
target of 200 per year, and FWCI, which is one 

 19of the indicators of the quality of  outputs, remains at a high-level. T hus, the University considers that 
the strengthening of HIAS has al ready had some effect on facilita ting an environment where faculty 
members can focus on their research and pr oduce integrative knowledge  beyond disciplinary 
boundaries. By further increasing th e number of researchers, while also shifting to a focus on the 
integration of the humanities and sciences, the University is on track to produce 300 
English-language outputs a year by 2028. 
 
(3) Talent development and international collab oration (related primarily to “fostering of 
human resources”; partially to “internat ional cooperation and collaboration” and 
“collaboration with society”) 
 
[1] Bolstering the international comp etitiveness of undergraduate education  
We will expand the number of English-medium sp ecialized courses from 125 in 2018 to 200 in ten 
years, introduce a Dual Seminar System that allows  students to take a specialized seminar class in 
English in addition to their Ja panese-medium seminar, and pursu e other initiatives to enrich 
educational activity in which talented, globally ac tive researchers carefully train each individual 
student. These initiatives will invigorate the cultivation of students with profound social 
science-based intellectual capabilities that enable th em to play active roles in international society. 
We will also expand our international institutional partnerships at the same time as we further 
develop collaborative relationshi ps within SIGMA and introduce international active learning 
programs to accelerate global tale nt development at the undergra duate level. Online education 
methods will be developed to atta in world-class international competitiveness. We will work on 
initiatives that highlight the competencies st udents acquire through global education, accredit them 
in the form of a diploma supplement, and establis h competency evaluation methods for transferable 
skills. 
To foster a new generation of en trepreneurs and promote research in new areas, a new educational 
program that combines data scie nce and design approach es (the Data Design Program) was launched 
in AY2021. Additionally, we will launch a new Faculty of Social Data Science, merging data science 
and social sciences. At the same time, we will uti lize AIST and the Union of Four Universities in 
Tokyo to pioneer cocreation between the natural and social sciences and expand educational 
programs on this theme. Areas such as IoT and pl atform business are currently experiencing growth 
throughout the world, and individu als capable of designing soci al systems with knowledge of 
technology are essen tial to formulate and launch businesses fo r global markets from the outset. To 
develop entrepreneurs with a global perspective and the capacity to e nvisage new social systems, it 
will be crucial that our undergraduate programs incl ude social science-based data science education 
through deeper collaboration with AIST as well as offer extensive gl obal education. The 
enhancement of Hitotsubashi University’s undergraduate education programs will contribute to the cultivation of a new generation of entr epreneurs essential for Japan’s future. 
 
[2] Researcher training in doctoral programs 
As we develop data infrastructure through Univ ersity-wide internationa l joint research and 
research programs designed to resolve social problems, centered on HIAS, we will also use research 
OJT in the doctoral programs to train young research ers to perform on the worl d stage. At the same 
time, doctoral students will be provided with su pport for study and living expenses through tuition 
 20exemptions and employment as Research Assistants  (RAs) and Teaching Assistants. These initiatives 
will attract more talented individuals to the doctora l programs. The involvement of graduate students 
from other universities, including outside Japan, as RAs in research projects, especially in priority areas, will both enhance the outcomes of the Univ ersity’s project-based research and furnish 
opportunities for OJT in empirical research based on data infrastructure that is one of the 
University’s strengths. This will position the Universi ty as a hub for social sciences research in Japan 
and Asia through high-impact academic talent development. 
 
ሾ3ሿ Strengthening professional education (bolstering the integrated capacity of the business 
schools) 
We will strengthen professional education at the mast er’s and doctoral levels. Education and research 
operate in unison in the social sciences, with the education of highly skilled professionals benefiting 
from the talents of researchers who produce outputs of international caliber. At the same time, we 
will utilize means such as cross-appointments to  expand the employment of academic staff with 
professional experience, building world-class professional programs that offer the world’s most 
advanced theoretical frameworks and gaining ac cess to the forefront of  professional practice. 
 
(ⅰ) Developing professionals at the master’s level 
Amazon, Google, Netflix, and other global corporations have recently come to demand advanced 
specialized knowledge in the soci al sciences. Even within Japa n, there is a growing demand for 
programs such as the evening MBA program launched in 2018 to coincide with  the graduate school 
restructuring at Hitotsubashi University. Many peopl e employed in the corporate world have already 
realized that undergraduate education alone is inadequate to meet their needs. In response to this 
demand, the University will offer education progr ams for highly skilled professionals in the 
Graduate School of Business Administration (Bus iness School), Graduate School of Law (Law 
School), and School of International and Public Policy. English-medium degree programs will be 
expanded, along with double degree ne tworks and hybrid internships in  international organizations 
and think tanks outside Japan. 
 
(ii) Developing profession als at the doctoral level 
In addition to master’s programs, in AY2019 we also established a doctoral program in 
management. This program, which can be attended outside working hours, is designed for engineers 
and technologists who already hold master’s degrees in science-related disciplines. It will be used to 
train highly skilled professionals and managerial personnel in the area of management of technology. 
In response to the growing importance of evidence- based policy-making (EBPM) in recent years, we 
also established a doctoral progra m in EBPM for practitioners from entities such as governmental 
organs, central banks, and think tanks who already hold master’s degrees in economics. This move 
represents a valuable precedent in the development of new doctoral programs in the social sciences. 
To establish degree programs that promote in ternationalization and cocreation between the 
humanities and sciences, we will establish a new cross-graduate school degree program designed to 
cultivate highly skilled professiona ls equipped with advanced transferable skills in transdisciplinary 
fields. Doctoral students participating in this program will be provided with financial support. 
 
 21[4] Executive education 
To enable top-level managers in Japanese comp anies to update their know ledge base in response 
to the rapidly-changing global business environm ent, we will continue to enhance our existing 
executive programs (the Hitotsubashi Senior Ex ecutive Program and the Hitotsubashi Financial 
Leadership Program) and extend into other executive programs. We will create a short-term intensive 
course on health economics to tr ain highly skilled professionals in  medicine and nursing, together 
with other executive programs that provide a knowle dge base for addressing cr itical social problems. 
 
(4) Strengthening the independent financial base (related to “strengthening of financial base”)  
The University aims to raise its ordinary re venue by 1 billion yen by fiscal 2029 and a further 1 
billion yen by fiscal 2039, as well as increase its budget by 20% over its curren t level. A total of 2 
billion yen will have a significant impact on Hitotsubash i, a social sciences university with a current 
budget of approximately 11 billion yen. Assuming that operating expenses grants and subsidies 
remain at their current levels, we will pursue strate gies to strengthen the University’s financial base 
in the areas of (i) tuition, (ii)  executive programs, (iii) commissione d research, (iv) endowments, and 
(v) other revenue. Implementing measures to strengt hen the financial base will permit strengthening 
the research and education structures, including an increase in facult y personnel and additional 
investments in research and edu cation infrastructure, transforming the University into a globally 
competitive institution. The University’s strengths in the area of accounting will be applied to 
develop and adopt a new university managerial accounting system that clarifies the costs, revenues, 
and outcomes of projects in research and e ducation, as well as measures performance. 
 
(i) Tuition (increase in tuition revenue through deregulation) 
The University increased  tuition fees by 20% for undergraduate  programs from fiscal 2020 and for 
some of its graduate schools, including the MBA programs, from fiscal 2021, and is achieving stable 
financial resource growth to enhance education in  these programs. To maintain the accreditation 
obtained in 2021 from AACSB International (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of 
Business), an international accreditation organiza tion of business programs,  the MBA programs will 
pursue educational improvements al igned with global standards and raise its yearly business school 
enrollment capacity to 250 by fisc al 2029, while monitoring fluctua tions in demand going forward. If 
further deregulation takes place, tu ition will be raised to a level commensurate with international 
standards. Through increases in both enrollment capacity and tuition reve nue, the business school 
aims to achieve an overall revenue increase of approximately 200 million yen (a total of 
approximately 600 million yen when combined with  undergraduate program revenue) by fiscal 2029, 
and a further increase, driven by raised enrollmen t capacity, of just under 800 million yen (a total of 
approximately 1.2 billion yen) by fiscal 2039. (ii) Expansion of executive programs 
Demand for training programs for top management is  extremely strong in th e corporate sector. We 
will expand our existing executive programs and de velop a wide range of new programs with the 
goal of raising current revenue of 138 million yen to approximately 300 million yen — an increase 
of approximately 160 million yen — in ten years. 
(iii) Commissioned research, etc. (acceler ation of collaboration with companies) 
Demand for AI capable of extracti ng useful hypotheses from big data  in the social sciences is 
 22growing rapidly, such as AI to und ertake accounting audits  and to learn and pred ict the probability of 
bankruptcy in small and medium enterprises. In th e coming era of big data, there will be a major 
upsurge in AI development projects requiring knowle dge of the social scienc es in areas such as 
accounting, finance, marketing, and pricing. Using cha nnels such as the Hitotsubashi Initiative of 
Collaboration for Knowledge Sharing and joint-stock companies established, if selected as a 
Designated National University, we will attract more  research commissions in these areas and boost 
revenue in the future. Such research not only contribu tes to the University’s revenue base, but is also 
an effective means for obtaining valuable research data to be disseminated  internationally. By 
creating human resource development programs in data science fields and increasing collaborative 
research by SDS faculty, revenue centered on commissioned research wi ll increase by approximately 
150 million yen over the next ten years. 
(iv) Endowments (strengthening th e Hitotsubashi University Foundation) 
At the time of its conversion into a National Univ ersity Corporation, Hitots ubashi University also 
established the Hitotsubashi Un iversity Foundation to promote th e University’s vision and solicit 
endowments, which, as of April 2018, had reached a cumulative total of more than ten billion yen. Our ratio of cumulative endowment income to ove rall university revenue is the highest of any 
national university in Japan. The Un iversity’s alumni association, Josuikai, was established more 
than a century ago and has long supported the University on a variety of fronts, including 
contributing to fundraising activiti es for the Hitotsubashi Universi ty Foundation. Going forward, we 
will work to further increase our endowment income through deeper collaboration with the Josuikai. 
We will place particular emphasis on companies in the growth region of Asia, utilizing overseas 
branches of the Josuikai and em ploying international student alum ni as specialist fundraisers 
(Advisors to the President) as we seek to bui ld our endowment. Numerous international students 
from Asia study at Hitotsubashi University every y ear. The Josuikai alumni association has branches 
around the world and a vibrant progra m of activities. With the support of these branch organizations, 
we will work proactively to further expand suppor t for students studying abroad, endowed lectures, 
and other initiatives.  
Through these activities, we aim to attain cu mulative endowments of 15 billion yen by AY2028. 
(v) Other revenue 
  The University will work with external consulta nts on efforts to enhance the management of funds 
built from endowments and donations, as well as increase revenue from the University-owned 
Hitotsubashi Hall. It will also formulate and impl ement a campus grand design to facilitate revenue 
increases totaling approximately 50 million yen th rough fixed-term leases and other forms of 
monetization of university assets. A ll assets (cash, real estate, etc.) owned by the University will be 
utilized to the maximum extent possible in an effort  to achieve stable, sustainable self-generation of 
revenue.  
(5) Administrative organization reforms to  support strengthening of international 
competitiveness (related to “strengthening of governance”) 
To achieve the university strategy of comprehe nsive internationalizati on and strengthening of 
international competitiveness, the University will pursue reforms to its administrative organization, 
including the strength ening of administrative units responsible  for (a) research support, (b) public 
relations strategy, (c) IR and mana gement strategy, and (d) cocreati on with society. Initiatives for 
 23talent development in university administration and management will also be accelerated to increase 
the efficiency of internal administration. 
[1] Reorganization of research support  
A unit will be established to oversee the research  support organizations currently dispersed across 
different departments, raising the standard of res earch support across the University by concentrating 
expertise and allocating resources efficiently. [2] Establishment of URA organization (HIAS)  
URAs with specialized knowledge and experience will be deployed to strengthen initiatives in 
research-related IR, research coordination, project management, pre-award/post-aw ard support, 
international public relations, and cocreation with society. URAs will pursue international public 
relations activities on a priority basi s for selected flagship projects. 
[3] Strengthening international competitiv eness of the administrative organization  
In addition to appointing approximately ten new administrative staff members each year, 
international competitiveness will be strengthe ned at the time of appointment by evaluating 
candidates comprehensively, taking into account cr iteria such as language proficiency, specialized 
expertise and competencies, proa ctiveness, and cooperativeness. 
[4] Developing professionals for university administrator 
With the Graduate School of Business Administra tion and the School of International and Public 
Policy, Hitotsubashi has a strong foundation for edu cating individuals from business and government 
in the management of private enterprises and public authorities. By utilizing international 
partnerships, we sent administrativ e staff members to our close part ner SMU for periods of 6 months 
in AY2019 to undergo international OJT. We also ag reed with the Okinawa Institute of Science and 
Technology to undergo OJT starting in AY2022. Building on this, we will desi gn a newly structured 
development program for university administrators. We will provide mandatory courses dealing with 
knowledge related to university research and education and esse ntial broad-based knowledge for 
higher education administration from such di sciplines as accounting, organizational theory, 
marketing, finance, financial management, public administration, psychology, and statistics. These 
form the basis of an undergraduate certificate pr ogram (launched in AY2021), which will later be 
developed into a University Administrator Devel opment Program leading to a master’s degree. The 
program will be offered initially to administrative staff members of Hitotsubashi University, but later 
opened up to external participants and enhanced as part of the social infrastructure for training higher 
education administrators across Japan. 
 
III. Prospects for the Fourth Mediu m-Term Goals Period (Conclusions) 
 
Hitotsubashi University presently stands at a crossroads, with one  path leading to stagnation, and 
the other to growth into an inte rnational hub for world-class research and talent development that 
leads the reform of the social scie nces in Japan. Sharing this strong  sense of crisis across its entire 
community, the University, under the President’s strong leadership, will acce lerate rigorously its 
structural and management reform efforts in area s including intensive pers onnel strategy to drive 
diversity (internationalization and diversification) and integration of the humanities and sciences, 
functional strengthening of the Hitotsubashi In stitute for Advanced Study and other research 
organizations, resource allocation to maximize f aculty education and research capabilities, and 
 24improvement of the financial base through pursuit of co-creation projects with  society. These reforms 
will be carried out during the f ourth medium-term goals period. The University will also achieve 
positive collaborative cycles in both research and education with the international community and 
local society, harnessing two key driving forces: research internationalization and contribution to 
social solutions, and educational internationali zation to cultivate professionals equipped with 
advanced knowledge and skills. 
The Sixth Science, Technology and Innovation Ba sic Plan (approved by Cabinet in March 2021) 
states: “In the future, it will beco me increasingly important to accumulate ‘knowledge’ with depth in 
the humanities and social sciences, and to create and utilize ‘convergence of knowledge’ that contributes to comprehensive und erstanding and problem solving of human beings and society 
through fusion with ‘knowledge’ in the natural scienc es.” In order to respond to these expectations 
and contribute to the creation and utilization of  “convergence of knowledge,” the Japanese social 
sciences will require radical re form and strengthening of intern ational competitiveness. The 
University will play a lead ing role in this process through its extensive internal reforms, furnishing 
other Japanese social science universities and faculti es with a model for revitalization of the social 
sciences and ushering in a new era for the social sciences in Japan. 
The achievement of the vision and strategies detailed above will en able the University to grow 
into a hub for world-class social science research a nd education that fosters global leaders to reform 
society in practice and generates kno wledge toward the establishment of  social systems for a resilient 
world, providing a bridge to reali zation of a sustainable future.  
 
  
 25Appendix 
 
*FWCI : Basically, Field-Weighted Citation Impact (FWC I) is an indicator of the degree to which 
the research is cited by other researchers. More specifically, papers with the average number of 
citations in a given year in the pa rticular field are taken as the refe rence point for use as an indicator 
of the strength of the impact of  individual papers (to be more ex act, the average value also varies 
with the type of paper, i.e., arti cle, conference paper, or review).  This average level is assigned a 
value of 1 (FWCI = 1.0). A value a bove 1.0 indicates that the paper in question was cited more, and 
below one, that it was cited less, than the averag e. Because the FWCI value rises with number of 
citations, this suggests that  the paper has a higher qua lity in the particular field. Calculat ion of the 
FWCIs for individual papers provides footing for cal culation of the average FW CI for all papers of 
the university in question in the field in question. Th is average FWCI serves as an indicator of the 
quality of research in the univers ity as a whole. The FWCIs and resu lt totals shown in figures 1 – 3 
are for the period 2008 – 2017, and include journal articles, books, and book chapters. They do not 
include self- citations.  
*Atsumi indicator : The h-index for individuals is based on calculation of the number of papers 
published by a certain individual that  have a number of citations highe r than the order of that paper 
in terms of the number of citations  (relative to his or her other papers). For example, the papers 
authored by a certain researcher may ranks as fo llows in terms of the number of times each was 
cited: first, 20 times; second, 10 times; third, 5 times; fourth, 3 times. In this case, the researcher’s 
h-index would be 3. This index indicates the extent of  papers with impact resulting from the research 
of specific individuals. It is used to calculate how many papers with a certain degree of impact he or 
she has authored, as opposed to the impact of any single outstanding pape r. The Atsumi metrics 
index, an institutional h5-index devised by Koizumi, expands the h-index to the scope of entire 
universities. It similarly indicates the extent of  papers with impact produced by a university as a 
whole. It is not influenced by th e achievements of any particular st ellar member of the faculty; its 
value rises along with the “thickness ” (“atsumi”) of the layer of res earch and research ers with impact. 
The Atsumi indices shown in figures 1 – 3 are for the most recent five-year period (2013 – 2017), 
and include journal ar ticles, books, and book chapters. They  do not include self-citations. 
 
*The following is a brief commentary on the figures shown in Table 1.  
① Executive shares and executive shar e per capita of student population:  We calculated the share of 
the total number of executives at companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the London 
Stock Exchange occupied by alumni of the univer sities in question. Beca use the alumni of the 
UK universities also take positions with comp anies in countries other than the UK, the 
calculation for the UK was based only on the share among companies within the UK in order to 
make the comparative evaluation fair. In addition, as universities with more students inevitably 
have a higher executive share, a calculation was also made of the executive share per capita of 
student population by dividing the number of ex ecutive alumni by the student enrollment quota. 
② Indirect market value: We calculated the ma rket value contributed by the University by 
multiplying the market value of the companie s listed in each market by the aforementioned 
executive share. This is referred to as the “ind irect market value” contributed by each university.  
 26③ Indirect market value per capita : This indirect market value was converted into a numerical 
figure per input made. We considered three ty pes of input: (a) student enrollment quota per 
academic year, (b) number of teach ers, and (c) amount of budget. Fi rst, we divided the indirect 
market value by the student enrollment quota per ac ademic year, to derive the indirect market 
value per capita (of student enrollment quota per academic year). (Although corporate executives 
are not appointed for a term of only one year, this did not cause any problems for inter-university 
comparison, because divisions were made with figures derived under the same conditions for 
each university.) 
④ Efficiency per input average: As  we postulated three types of i nput (number of students, number 
of teachers, and budget amount), we took the i ndicator resulting from division with the 
corresponding cube root as “ef ficiency per input average.” 
⑤ Comparison with the base value (Tohoku Univers ity value): We assigned the value 1.0 to Tohoku 
University, which is a typical cas e of an excellent university, for both the indirect market value 
per capita of student enrollment per year and th e efficiency per input average, and made a 
numerical quantification of effectiveness and effi ciency as a multiplier of the Tohoku University 
value. Higher figures for these factors presumab ly indicate higher levels of effectiveness and 
efficiency. 
  
 
 
Appendix Table A: Comparison with LSE; the be st social sciences uni versity in the world 

 27Appendix Table B: Comparison of indirect ma rket capitalization per student capacity  

