Our Students and Their Success Comes First:
A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech
2020–2025

Table of Contents
Executive Summary  ..................................................................... 2
Vision, Mission, and Values and Core Principles  ....................... 4
Strategic Priorities  ....................................................................... 9
Campaign Priorities to Enable Our Strategic Goals  ................ 19
SMART Goals (2020–2025)  ......................................................... 20
Implementation Process  ........................................................... 22
Assessment of Progress ............................................................. 23
Executive Summary
In 2009 key stakeholders in the Illinois Institute of Technology community developed a strategic plan aptly called 
“Many Voices, One Vision. ” Five years later the university updated that plan from which many exciting initiatives flowed, including the launch of the Ed Kaplan Family Institute for Innovation and Tech Entrepreneurship and an increased emphasis on student success.
Over the last 10 months the University Steering Committee and, more recently, a University Strategic Planning 
Committee, comprising key staff members, academic deans, faculty, students, trustees, and alumni, have all provided input and feedback on a new strategic plan advancing the university in its next phase of growth and development. This plan faithfully adheres to Illinois Tech’s legacy and commitments, including an internationally recognized and preeminent stature in architecture, business, design, engineering, science, mathematics, technology, psychology, and law; to our Bauhaus spirit of innovation and creativity; to our vital partnership with the great global city of Chicago; to our global partnerships; to our commitment to students from all backgrounds; and to our cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research and education that builds on our strengths and emphasizes both theory and practice.
We affirm and recognize that Illinois Tech graduates must manifest disciplinary excellence; maintain the highest 
values; practice innovation, creativity, and leadership; and lead cross-disciplinary project teams with excellence in communication. We must challenge ourselves to become an increasingly agile academic culture that collaborates across all disciplines, that emphasizes excellence and innovation, that celebrates diversity and practices inclusion, and that brings respect and dignity to our work.
Four key university-wide priorities have been identified as areas of focus over the next five years:
1. Grow and develop both our undergraduate and graduate student bodies with an emphasis on 
student success, both during the students’ time at Illinois Tech and after graduation in their professional careers
2. Fully realize our identity as the premier technology-focused university in Chicago and one of the five premier technology-focused universities in the nation
3. Strengthen our finances to enable strategic investments in our faculty, facilities, and educational and research programs
4. Become a leading university in the development and delivery of our educational and  
research programs
Each of these priorities is linked to specific SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, Time-bound) goals with measurable five-year milestones. While ambitious, these goals are achievable and necessary for Illinois Tech to fully realize its promise. This document focuses on the strategy and SMART goals, while the follow-up to the plan requires specific implementation by faculty, staff, and student participants. Implementation will require the ideas, efforts, and commitment of our full faculty and staff, as well as input and feedback from our students.EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   2
For the plan to ultimately succeed, all stakeholders of the university must come together and play an important 
role in its realization:
1. The Board of Trustees will hold senior administration accountable for the execution of the plan and achievement of its milestones.
2. The plan must be specific, achievable, and flexible. As new opportunities present themselves and roadblocks to progress occur, the Illinois Tech community must be able to rapidly execute and communicate adjustments to the plan.
3. The president and provost will strategically allocate resources to ensure that staff and faculty have what is needed to achieve our strategic priorities. This will require that precious resources are only expended on those needs most central to achieving our strategic plan.
4. The faculty, department chairs, deans, and academic staff and leadership will be responsible for achieving our curricular, educational, and research goals, and for developing our distinctive educational experience, which will enable and drive enrollment growth and student success.
5. The faculty and staff will be responsible for strengthening and further developing our institution’s core values of innovation and excellence, for fostering diversity and encouraging inclusion, for further developing our core curriculum to enable distinctiveness, and for instilling respect and agility as  
core values.
6. The Board of Trustees, advancement staff, university leadership, and other stakeholders will develop and drive a comprehensive campaign and plan to enhance and preserve our physical resources and infrastructure, to drive endowment growth, and to fund strategic priorities. 
7. The deans, with their faculty, will develop college-specific and school-specific plans to align the work of their units with the priorities and goals in this strategic plan.
8. Our alumni will act as advocates for the university, working directly with our students, and providing volunteer and philanthropic support to advance our strategic priorities.
Our ambitious goals will require the collaboration and earnest participation of the entire Illinois Tech community both within their units and across unit boundaries. Each goal will be assigned a leader; the contributing units and staff needed to accomplish each goal will also be identified. These leaders and the contributing units will be assessed on their performance by a University Strategic Plan Steering Committee. The successful execution of the strategic plan will rely heavily on not only our implementation process, but also frequent and timely assessment combined with constant action and attention to the accomplishment of our SMART goals. Indeed, the implementation and assessment plans are as, if not more, important than the goals themselves. The specific metrics and timelines found in this plan will be used to guide our actions and any revisions as circumstances dictate. The Strategic Plan Assessment Team, which consists of faculty, staff, and students, will play an important role in providing an objective and timely assessment of progress on our goals and milestones. The university’s senior leadership and Board of Trustees will receive regular reports on the progress made in our board reports.
Our strategic plan, when successfully executed, will enable dramatic and sustained growth and development 
of our university and financial vitality. It is a plan full of ambition, optimism, and confidence. This plan belongs to everyone who supports and believes in Illinois Institute of Technology. We have a proud history and an even brighter future. Our plan will enable us to boldly own our identity as the premier technology-focused university in Chicago and one of the top technology-focused universities in the nation.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   3
Vision, Mission, and Values and Core Principles
VISION
Illinois Tech will be internationally recognized in distinctive areas of education and research, using as its 
platform the global city of Chicago, driven by a professional and technology-oriented focus, and based on a culture of innovation and excellence.
· Internationally Recognized in Distinctive Areas
Research themes and educational programs must be interdisciplinary to achieve national/international 
distinction. We have no academic unit that is either large enough or prominent enough to carry the university’s research and educational reputation on its own. We need premier, highly recognized, academically excellent market positions in a few select interdisciplinary areas to help raise the overall visibility of Illinois Tech. Our goal of international recognition will influence our resource allocations, and we will build on existing strengths that offer us comparative advantages. 
· Education and Research
We will become excellent in both research and education because the synergy between research and 
education leads to improvements in both domains. Innovation in education and research at both the undergraduate and graduate levels is required to capture the public’s attention, attract a broader spectrum of high-quality students, and differentiate Illinois Tech from similar technology-oriented institutions. Students will select Illinois Tech because they gain an educational experience that is not replicated at other universities and because they believe Illinois Tech will help prepare them for success throughout their careers. Leadership, entrepreneurial and creative activities that lead to meaningful innovation, an understanding of the process of design, global awareness, ethical formation, an ability to communicate well, and an appreciation of diversity and excellence will all become hallmarks of an Illinois Tech education, in addition to discipline-specific mastery and interaction with outstanding faculty in and out of the classroom.
VISION, MISSION, AND VALUES AND CORE PRINCIPLES
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   4
Scholarship, research excellence, and creativity that lead to innovation from our faculty and students will be 
valued at Illinois Tech. Educating undergraduates and graduates (both master’s and doctoral students) who will become executives, entrepreneurs, and thought leaders in their respective fields will be a priority. And since these graduates often go on to occupy key positions in industry, government, and academe, they will bring added distinction to the university. 
· Chicago
Illinois Tech’s presence in Chicago serves the university in two ways. Our location supports our global 
recruiting efforts through Chicago’s growing reputation as an international destination. The city also provides opportunities that help shape the university’s educational and research initiatives. 
Conversely, Illinois Tech must continue to be a major and positive influence on Chicago, particularly as the city 
pursues its aspirations through P33 to become a major global technology leader. Illinois Tech can and must be a major provider, perhaps the major provider, of diverse technology talent for Chicago as the city grows its tech sector. We must also ensure that we are the “go to” source of innovation in our technology sector and the major provider of leaders in this sector.
· Professional and Technology-Oriented
Illinois Tech established its reputation as a preeminent engineering school with additional strengths in science, 
mathematics, architecture, law, and design. The name of the university reinforces this image. The future of the university, however, rests on the development and/or enhancement of the national/international reputation of all of our programs. The stature of our design school and the reputation of the law, human sciences, science, mathematics, applied technology, business, and architecture programs present opportunities to leverage our assets between the technical and professional disciplines. We can elevate our programs by focusing on choice areas of interest that emphasize collaboration and synergy among our colleges and schools with a goal of creating research, products, systems, and services that have intellectual and sustainable economic value.
· Innovation and Excellence
Illinois Tech inherited an extraordinary legacy of innovation from the German Bauhaus, the European center 
for architecture and design until the mid-1930s. Both the Institute of Design and the College of Architecture owe a debt to its path-breaking creativity. New ideas must be protected from the dominance of status quo. The university must become an experimental studio to test new ideas—free from constraints imposed by rigid organizational structures. We also need to encourage innovation that leads to enterprise by allowing students, faculty, and staff to have access to our Kaplan Institute, University Technology Park, and UTP Incubator to follow their ideas from concept to enterprise in order to create sustainable economic value.
Both the academic and non-academic units of the university must strive for and achieve excellence in all 
activities. We must challenge ourselves to emphasize excellence, a commitment to diversity, and a respectful work environment throughout all areas of the university. We must improve our administrative processes to properly serve our students, and to support our faculty and staff. Continuous improvement of our educational and research programs will strengthen the university’s financial solvency and enhance its reputation. 
VISION, MISSION, AND VALUES AND CORE PRINCIPLES
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   5
MISSION
To provide distinctive and relevant education in an environment of scientific, technological, and 
professional knowledge creation and innovation.
Illinois Tech’s mission statement captures explicitly the character of the education paradigm that Illinois Tech’s academic units are contributing in both education and research. The key word is relevant: embracing the faculty’s 
commitment to providing an education that focuses on preparing our students for fulfilled lives after graduation and for careers that contribute to solving important problems facing humanity.
We are a supportive and collaborative community where students, faculty, staff, and alumni are valued and 
respected. We appreciate that our community comes from many backgrounds and many parts of the world. We embrace the contributions that differences offer, as diversity of thought and experience allows excellence to flourish. We are committed to providing a working and learning environment in which all members of our community are able to realize their full potential. Our mission will be carried out within this context.
VISION, MISSION, AND VALUES AND CORE PRINCIPLES
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   6
VALUES AND CORE PRINCIPLES
In order to continuously improve, we must “live” our values. The culture of a university is a shared system of values, 
beliefs, and attitudes that shapes and influences behavior. It is disseminated through the organization from top to bottom and from generation to generation. And, in order to continuously improve, these values must guide our actions and behaviors.
We define our culture using seven core-operating principles that will guide us in our planning. While these 
principles do not in themselves define a strategy, a successful plan requires adhering to them:
· Focus on Students: Our primary mission is not only to educate students in their chosen disciplines, but also to inspire them to become innovators, leaders, and positive contributors to society. Our goal is to prepare our graduates for significant and sustainable professional success in their chosen careers.
· Strengthen Faculty and Staff: The faculty inspire and direct all we do academically—from basic education to the discovery and creation of new concepts, systems, and products. The staff delivers our administrative services and partners with the faculty to ensure an excellent student experience.
· Foster Leadership and Ethical Decision-Making:  Leadership and ethical decision-making are essential for 
the growth of the person as well as the organization. Leadership development, therefore, is important for all segments of the university—faculty, students, and staff. Succession planning is also required to continuously promote excellence. 
· Commit to Diversity and Excellence: If we are to both remain relevant and attract the highest caliber of students, faculty, and staff, we must ensure that our community is inclusive and open to all viewpoints. A culture of excellence as well as a culture of diversity must pervade the university in both academic and non-academic areas.
· Focus on Resource Management: The financial well-being of the institution is critical for our success. We will embrace responsibility-centered management to achieve financial strength and expect that all members of the Illinois Tech community, including alumni, are responsible for enhancing our resources. 
· Enhance Reputation: All units of the university will benefit from the international recognition of any one of them. We must therefore continuously strive to gain recognition for our positive contributions as a university. Preeminence in several academic areas must be achieved for us to gain the international reputation we desire.
· Engage Alumni: Our greatest legacy is our alumni. It is their many contributions to business, government, academia, and society that enhance our reputation. We heavily rely upon our alumni for their involvement and philanthropic support in the execution of this plan. Therefore, we will support our alumni in whatever areas we can, and in turn, engage them in planning for the future of Illinois Tech. 
VISION, MISSION, AND VALUES AND CORE PRINCIPLES
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   7
Strategic Priorities
Strategic Priorities
Four key university-wide priorities have been identified as major areas of strategic focus for the university, each 
aligned with our mission and values:
1. Grow and Develop Our Undergraduate and Graduate Student Bodies (with an 
emphasis on student success before and after graduation)
The success of our ability to grow our student body relies heavily on the attractiveness of an Illinois 
Tech education and the degree to which we are able to communicate that nationally and globally. Our graduates are known as innovative professionals who excel in their roles as technology and societal leaders, pioneers, entrepreneurs, deep thinkers, and team builders. Accentuating the unique features of an Illinois Tech education and building on those qualities are key to our future success. Within the many technology and professional areas that Illinois Tech emphasizes (including, but not limited to, engineering, science, mathematics, architecture, design, law, psychology, and business), a common thread that emerges is the ability to build, manage, and ensure the proper functioning of the future technology economy.
This is accomplished through new venture creation as well as through leadership in established 
businesses. One unique aspect of an Illinois Tech education has been the Interprofessional Projects (IPRO) Program, which was born out of the 1994 National Commission for IIT . Done well, this program continues to be a distinctive and important element of our undergraduate education. With the launch of our Kaplan Institute and the reinvigoration of our IPRO experience, every Illinois Tech student should graduate with strong skills in innovation, creativity, project-based learning, project management, communication, and interdisciplinary teamwork. Properly grounded on disciplinary professional excellence, this distinctive model of education should serve as the foundation for attracting more and better students to the university and for ensuring that our graduates are successful in their future careers. It should also be a goal of our new plan to ensure that our graduate professional students are also exposed to this distinctive model of education.
Our plan for growing both our undergraduate and graduate student bodies relies heavily on a number 
of new initiatives. Several of these initiatives reflect the rapidly changing landscape of higher education. It is paradoxical that while many universities and colleges are struggling with declining enrollments, the demand for higher education and the associated skills has never been higher. The mismatch has been the gradual attempt by many universities to adapt their educational offerings and delivery methods to the changing demographics and demands. While in much of the United States there are declining numbers of high school graduates going on to colleges and universities, in nearly all states, there are increasing numbers of potential adult learners. Developing creative ways of reaching these adult learners and marketing and delivering education to them must be an important element of Illinois Tech’s plans for growth. Our initiatives include growing our online graduate programs internationally and domestically, developing certificates and micro-degrees for the adult-learner market, reaching adult learners through corporate onsite- and hybrid-delivery modalities, and developing a pathways program for both undergraduate and graduate students from around the world. 
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #1
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   9
Our plans to grow and develop our student body also rely heavily on ensuring that Illinois Tech is 
advancing and ensuring the success of our students. Through a variety of means, including creating 
a more residential model of undergraduate education, expanding our student retention task force, creatively and proactively addressing student challenges, and placing our students more effectively in internships and work experiences, we believe that we can excel at the graduation rates of our students, far exceeding the national average. Doing so will undoubtedly enable growth of our student body. Similarly, we should ensure that we are strongly retaining our graduate professional students by developing early-identification systems for struggling students. It is important that Illinois Tech has robust mental health resources, is being proactive in helping students, and assists students with placement in internships, externships, and permanent employment. Finally, we understand that students from underrepresented groups need role models and mentors with whom they relate well. For Illinois Tech to succeed, we must ensure that we are hiring diverse faculty and staff, and equipping them with the professional tools they need if we are to fulfill our aspirations in engendering student success.
Another important ingredient in growing our student body is to invest significantly in our campus 
environment and infrastructure to improve the student experience. One significant contribution to this is the renovation of Bailey Hall (to be named George J. Kacek Hall to honor the recent donor who enabled this renovation), which will bring 330 new beds online in the new student residence hall. We plan to shortly follow this with the renovation of Cunningham and Carman halls. We also plan to invest significantly in  
the student experience associated with athletics and related indoor activities, which constitutes a substantial portion of our students’ time during the academic year. We also intend to significantly  
invest in modernizing and enhancing our educational and research laboratories to further enhance the student experience.STRATEGIC PRIORITY #1
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   10
Finally, a key ingredient in student success is ensuring the active engagement of corporate and nonprofit 
organizations in the lives of our students, through placement in internships, feedback on the relevance and impact of our educational programs and curricula, design and support of new interdisciplinary project-based learning opportunities, philanthropy, and funding of our research. Our graduates can only be successful if our society highly values their talents and abilities, and the preparation that we impart to our students.
Our strategies to grow and develop our undergraduate and graduate student bodies with an increased 
emphasis on student success are:
a. Revitalize our truly distinctive Illinois Tech education
· Reinvigorate IPRO 3.0 and develop NxtPRO learning opportunities to provide students with authentic, project-based learning experiences.
· Redesign our core curriculum to ensure that all students have strong skills in leadership, writing and speaking, innovation and design, and an understanding of human behavior, institutions, and cultures.
· Infuse modern computing and computational skills in all of our curricula.
b. Grow both undergraduate and graduate student bodies
· Grow the number of new, undergraduate, degree-seeking first-time freshman and transfer students to 1,100 each year by 2025
· Increase the total number of degree-seeking undergraduate students to 4,000  
by 2025.
· Increase the number of on-campus, graduate degree-seeking students university-wide to 4,000 by 2025
c. Improve our students’ success in being retained, in graduating, in being placed
· Increase our first- to second-year retention of full-time, degree-seeking, undergraduate students from 86 percent to 95 percent by 2025
· Increase our six-year undergraduate degree-seeking graduation rate of all undergraduates from 70 percent to 78 percent by 2025
· Increase our undergraduate placement rate of students seeking employment at the time of graduation from less than 50 percent to greater than 90 percent by 2025
· Increase the number of our students participating in internships
· Ensure all students have at least one mentor (either faculty or staff) during their time at the university
d. Strengthen the university’s reputation and visibility with focused marketing
· Develop a comprehensive marketing campaign that includes major news stories in both the Chicago and national markets over a sustained period of five years
· Use social media and nontraditional channels to market with greater effectiveness to communicate the unique value proposition of Illinois Tech
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #1
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   11
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #2
2. Fully Realize Our Identity as the Premier Technology-Focused University in Chicago 
and One of the Top Five Nationally
Illinois Tech has long been one of the premier technology- and science-focused universities in the nation 
that has attracted students from throughout the U.S. and abroad. Its unique relationship to Chicago and to Illinois is one that is distinctive and should enable our growth not only in in the Illinois market, but also nationally and internationally. Through its P33 initiative, Chicago will focus on further developing its technology sector to become a leading global technology city. Illinois Tech has an opportunity to align many of our priorities to better serve the city, while at the same time achieving the academic prominence nationally and internationally that will attract the best students to Chicago to participate in its programs. 
One key way to do this is to continue to expand our offerings, programs, and enrollments in computer 
science and computing-related disciplines. Computer science, data science, IT management, and electrical and computer engineering have all seen strong growth in their enrollments in the last decade and the demands for computing-related degrees and programs is likely to continue to grow strongly into the future. The growth of jobs in the computer systems and computer design-related services sectors have grown more than 200 percent over the past 20 years and appears to be on track to continue this growth for the foreseeable future. Moreover, computing is becoming so ubiquitous that active computational skills, such as data analytics, artificial intelligence, and software programming, can now be fruitfully applied to any discipline to enhance the value of knowledge and capability of the graduate.
Historically, Illinois Tech has embraced this integration of computing and computational methods across 
our disciplines. For Illinois Tech to continue to advance our institution, grow enrollments, and play a larger role in the growth of Chicago as a global technology city, we must continue this commitment through our support of interdisciplinary degree programs so that active computational skills become pervasive throughout all of our colleges and schools. Illinois Tech must also continue to strengthen and grow our historic strengths in engineering, applied technology, science, and mathematics, as well as in architecture and business, which are now categorized as STEM disciplines.  
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   12
Another important ingredient in becoming a preeminent technology-focused university is to ensure that 
we understand well the trends and needs of our society and our economy in the coming decades. Within the technology arena, we know that our economy will be increasingly driven and enabled by advanced technologies, including automation, computer enablement, robotics, advanced manufacturing, bio- and nanotechnologies, and related rapidly developing technologies. We recognize and applaud our historic leadership and strengths in science, technology, mathematics, and the integration of STEM disciplines and computational methods in creating innovation breakthroughs. Illinois Tech must continue to be a national and international leader in both the development of these technologies as well as an enabler of the implementation of these technologies in the economy. One important way to ensure that we are cognizant of the ways in which technologies are being implemented is to develop close partnerships with corporations and with other innovative universities that are at the frontier of new technology development. We must also continue and deepen our historic relationships with the national laboratories. These partnerships will, in turn, keep us well-informed about the satisfaction of others with the education of our students and our ability to help form them as educated and prepared professionals.
Another important element of our fully realizing our identity as the premier technology university in 
Chicago is to ensure that the technologies that we routinely employ in our education, research, and business practices are state of the art. When prospective students and their parents and friends visit our campus, they must be singularly impressed that we are fully committed to being a technology-rich and innovative university. This will require that we are constantly searching for ways to upgrade our use of technology to be the most efficient and innovative, and to create the environment that enables our stakeholders to see clearly that we are the premier technology university in Chicago 
Our specific strategies to fully realize our identity as the premier technology-focused university in Chicago 
and one of the top five in the nation are:
a. Substantially grow our computational and computing capacity in research  
and education
· Develop substantive, multicourse elements of active computational, digital, and data intensive skills in all Illinois Tech curricula by 2025
· Grow our computer science and related computing academic units to be leaders in the Chicago higher education market
b. Grow and enhance our historic strengths in engineering, science, mathematics, psychology, architecture, law, business, and design
· Identify our core areas of strength in research, scholarship, and education, and enhance them
· Invest in new faculty who effectively bridge historic areas of strength with other parts of the academy
c. Partner effectively with corporate, university, national laboratory, and  
governmental stakeholders
d. Enhance technologies used in our education, research, and business practices
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #2
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   13
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #3
3. Strengthen Our Finances to Enable Strategic Investment Each Year
One of our most important financial health indicators of our university is the cash flow margin Illinois 
Tech maintains in its annual operations. This margin is our revenues minus our expenses divided by our total revenue as a percentage. For example, with $200 million in total revenue (tuition, endowment payout, operations income) and $190 million in expenses (faculty and staff compensation, administration, operating expenses), our cash flow margin would be $10 million/$200 million = 5%. Our university’s cash flow margin over the past several years has been around 2–3%. An analysis of our peer and aspirational peer universities indicates that a healthy cash flow margin would be around 10%. Achieving this  
margin will require focused efforts to increase tuition and operations revenue and reduce and  
control expenditures.
The university has identified a number of new revenue initiatives that fall under the rubrics of new 
methods of delivery, new educational products, and enhanced reach of the university. Among those new revenue initiatives that have already been launched are (1) the Cambridge Education Group pathway program for international undergraduate and graduate recruiting, (2) the Beacon Education Partnership for offering online M.A.S. degrees in China, and (3) a partnership with Kellogg Brown & Root to offer an online undergraduate certificate program in chemical engineering. Each of these new initiatives have very substantial potential for generating new revenues for our university.
The university is also exploring ways of growing and enhancing our operational revenues by increased 
non-degree offerings in online educational opportunities and executive education, and better use of our current facilities throughout the year. With the renovation of Bailey Hall (the future Kacek Hall), the university should be able to generate additional housing revenue from increased numbers of undergraduates. Our plans are to also quickly renovate Cunningham Hall, which would be used for graduate housing revenue from increased graduate enrollment.
We must also grow the endowment to build a more stable platform to support university operations 
and increase alumni financial support of the university. Additionally, we must become nimbler as a university in vectoring faculty and staff support toward those initiatives that are growing, while gracefully decreasing faculty and staff support in those areas that are shrinking on campus. Faculty who are interdisciplinary must be willing to support academic programs in the differing colleges and schools in which their expertise is of value. Deans and department chairs must actively manage their instructional and administrative budgets to ensure their revenue and expenses are right-sized to enable the university to achieve its financial objectives.
Properly structuring our revenues and expenses for a healthy cash flow margin will enable strategic 
investment. Among the most critical strategic investments is regularly renewing our physical facilities, both for student life and for academic excellence. Our Miesian pavilion buildings are wonderfully flexible and repurposable, but they require care and maintenance to ensure they are attractive and functional.  
As we reassess our educational products and delivery methods, we must invest in those revenue initiatives that hold the greatest promise for advancing our university. While our core business of being a premier technology university will remain, the specific academic programs, the delivery methods, and the  
actual degree and certificate products will change. We must also become a university that is agile and embraces change.
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   14
Our specific strategies to strengthen our finances to enable strategic investment are:
a. Increase revenues and control expenses to achieve an 8% cash flow margin by 2025
· Develop new revenue initiatives to achieve enrollment goals defined in strategic 
priority 1
· Grow our computer science and related computing academic units to be leaders in the Chicago higher education market
b. Centralize technology systems and services across campus into the Office of Technology Services targeting technology consolidation, enterprise system streamlining, automation, and training
c. Implement a comprehensive talent management and professional development system by fall 2020 
d. Initiate a new comprehensive fundraising campaign to allow investment in facilities, faculty, and programs that will complete in 2025 and raise an excess of $350 million
e. Better engage our alumni, trustees, and friends in developing the university of  
the future
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #3
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   15
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #4
4. Become a leading university by 2025 in the development and delivery of our research 
and educational programs 
As discussed above, the success of Illinois Tech in the evolving landscape of higher education relies 
strongly on our ability to evolve and grow not only our academic programs, but also our delivery methods and educational products. We need faculty and staff who embrace change and agility and who are highly skilled and competent in online technology, pedagogy, and instructional design. This will take some time to change our culture and capabilities, and during this transition period, we must explore ways of remaining extremely competitive in the higher education landscape. For example, the Beacon Education Partnership offers us the technology and speed to penetrate the China online market rapidly while we are developing our own internal capabilities. Similar technology and delivery partners may well be needed in other markets including the domestic online and corporate engagement markets.
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   16
A key element in ensuring that Illinois Tech be a leader nationally as a higher education institution must be 
our continued emphasis on the diversity of our faculty, staff, and students, and our commitment to being 
an inclusive and welcoming community. The evidence is clear that diverse and inclusive teams are the most creative and productive. While our student body is diverse, we need to ensure that we are welcoming and inclusive. We must also redouble our efforts to ensure that our faculty and staff are also diverse  
and inclusive.
Excelling in the area of educational programming requires that our university continues to innovate in our 
research programs, both disciplinarily and interdisciplinarily. While ensuring that our academic programs are well founded on disciplinary excellence, as they have been historically, we must also ensure that they are pushing the research and educational boundaries of interdisciplinary excellence. Increasingly, the research that will have the largest impact on society requires active engagement of teams of researchers across multiple disciplines. Some of the most impactful new educational programs are those in which powerful new technologies are applied ubiquitously in problem solving. A good case in point is the growing importance of artificial and augmented intelligence across many sectors of the economy. Accordingly, our university must become increasingly proficient in tackling cross-disciplinary research problems in technology that have large potential impact on society. We must also become increasingly comfortable as a community of scholars and educators in forging cross-disciplinary degree programs, particularly those that utilize increasingly powerful tools of technology.
The strategies that we will use to become a leading university in both our educational and research 
programs are:
a. Establish a campus-wide initiative in faculty development that enables  
excellence in successful grant writing, online instructional and technical skills,  
and effective pedagogy
· Develop more than 2,000 new online enrolled students (incrementally) by 2025 from online and reskilling
· Refocus our online educational offerings to include corporate reskilling, international online, and domestic online using advanced, state-of-the-art technologies and pedagogy
b. Establish a campus-wide leadership team focused on diversity and inclusion,  
drive diversity in faculty and staff hiring, and develop strategies for ensuring respect and inclusion
c. Establish a faculty leadership program to groom promising faculty for both research and administrative leadership positions
d. Develop a campus-wide approach for forging collaborative and  
interdisciplinary programs 
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #4
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   17
Campaign Priorities
and SMART Goals
CAMPAIGN PRIORITIES TO ENABLE OUR STRATEGIC GOALS
Campaign Priorities to Enable Our Strategic Goals
With an emphasis on student growth and success, our most urgent needs for funding from our campaign are the 
building or renovation of residence halls. With McCormick Student Village approaching its practical end of life, we need to maintain or increase our bed count for new enrollments. Currently, we are renovating Bailey Hall (the future Kacek Hall); the next logical steps would be a renovation of Cunningham Hall and renovations to Carman or Gunsaulus halls to facilitate our growth. These improvements should also help us improve the yield of admitted students by presenting a more attractive student environment.
We also need to think carefully about how to upgrade the student experience indoors during our winter months. 
The Keating Sports Center is also nearing the end of its life and either dramatically upgrading/renovating Keating, or identifying other buildings for many of the functions in Keating, is essential.
A third area of facilities investment is a serious examination of the student experience in our teaching and research 
laboratories. Upgrading these to represent the latest in pedagogy and safety is critical.
As we grow our student body, with a continued commitment to students from modest means, increasing our 
endowment for scholarships is another important investment opportunity.
Finally, as we strive to become a leading university in our educational and research programs, we need to continue 
to invest in faculty chairs and endowments.
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   19
SMART Goals (2020–2025)
Our strategic priorities are supported by SMART Goals, which are Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and 
Timely. This section describes the major goals for each priority. Numerical targets are for achievement by FY25, 
unless otherwise indicated. 
1. Grow and Develop Our Undergraduate and Graduate Student Bodies (with an emphasis on student 
success before and after graduation)
· Increase the undergraduate student population to 4,000
· Increase the total on campus student population to 8,000
· Increase retention of first-year full-time students to second-year full-time students to 95 percent
· Increase the undergraduate graduation rate to 77 percent
· Exceed the AITU placement average (currently 90 percent per year) for all graduates at the time  
of graduation
· Reinvigorate IPRO 3.0 so that 90-plus percent of all students express strong satisfaction with  
their experiences
· Redesign the core curriculum by FY22
· Ensure that all students have a faculty mentor
· Develop a robust marketing campaign to accelerate growth
· Improve the student life experience through renovation of the future Kacek Hall and Cunningham Hall, and the improvement of academic facilities
2. Fully Realize Our Identity as the Premier Technology-Focused University in Chicago and One of the Top Five Nationally
· Launch a College of Computing by 2021 that will integrate our campus-wide offerings in computational areas
· Infuse computing, computational, and data-analytic skills into all curricula on campus
· Support the development of interdisciplinary degree programs by 2021 that incorporate significant computing and computational skills
· Develop a campus-wide strategy and organization for corporate engagement that will lead to significantly better placement, increased corporate sponsorship of research and internships, and deeper engagement with more than 100 corporate partners by 2021
· Grow and enhance our historic strengths in engineering, science, architecture, law, business, and design, and infuse them with enabling technology
· Invest in 50 new faculty hires who effectively bridge historic areas of strength on campus with technology-related portions of the academy
SMART GOALS (2020–2025)
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   20
SMART GOALS (2020–2025)
3. Strengthen Our Finances to Enable Strategic Investment Each Year
· Launch at least five new successful revenue initiatives that produce at least $5 million in annual 
income per initiative
· Increase revenues and control expenses to achieve a cash flow margin of 8 percent
· Centralize technology systems and services across campus targeting technology consolidation, enterprise system streamlining, data validation and storage, automation, and training to save at least $1 million annually
· Implement a talent management and professional development system by fall 2020 
· Initiate a comprehensive fundraising campaign to allow investment in facilities, faculty, and programs that will be completed in 2025 and raise in excess of $350 million.
· Engage our alumni, trustees, and friends in developing the future of the university and achieve more than 30 percent of our undergraduate alumni giving to the university each year
4. Become a Leading University by 2025 in the Development and Delivery of Our Research and Educational Programs
· Establish a Faculty Teaching and Learning Center that will enable faculty development in grant writing, online instructional skills, and effective pedagogy by 2021
· Establish a Faculty Leadership Program to develop promising faculty for both research and administrative campus leadership roles
· Empower our campus-wide leadership team to focus on improving diversity and inclusion among our faculty and staff; implement strategies that ensure we develop a welcoming and inclusive culture
Each SMART Goal will have an identified leader under the guidance of the president and the provost who will be responsible for the attainment of the goal and have the responsibility and authority to initiate action aimed at the achievement of each goal. Each SMART Goal will also have a collaborative team of stakeholders committed to its accomplishment. Progress on goals will be assessed quarterly. The initial set of assignments for the various SMART goals is provided in the following table:
Grow and Develop Student Bodies Michael Gosz
Technology-Focused University Academic Deans
Strengthen Finances Michael Horan/Ernie Iseminger
Leading University Academic Deans
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   21
Implementation Process
The implementation and execution of our strategic plan is undoubtedly the most important aspect of the plan. 
We must come together as a community and all be focused on the execution of the plan for it to have the intended impact of forging a new direction for the university that will enable the full flourishing envisioned by the plan. To succeed, our implementation plan must engage fully all of our stakeholders. Thus, the strategic plan and its assessment and execution will become a key topic of discussion at each of our Board of Trustee meetings, our Alumni Association meetings, our engagements with students through SGA and the President’s Advisory Council, and throughout the university and our stakeholders.
We will also closely coordinate the execution of our strategic priorities with our budget process and decisions. The 
implementation will involve tactical plans and responsible persons for each SMART Goal and will detail the role and intended actions of our current faculty and staff, within a given time frame, and will outline where and when additions to faculty and staff and further investment will be needed to achieve our strategic priorities. Ultimately, the success of the strategic plan requires the full involvement of our current faculty and staff, as well as input from our students, alumni, Board of Trustees, and other key stakeholders.
The president is ultimately responsible for both the articulation and the attainment of the vision represented in  
the plan. The provost has overall responsibility for the implementation strategy and execution that will be used  
to achieve the vision of the plan; the provost is ultimately responsible for achievement of the metrics of the  
SMART goals.The academic and administrative leadership will also be held directly responsible for the plan’s success. The 
leadership group of deans, vice presidents, vice provosts, and department chairs will be reviewed annually based upon their ability to lead their units in the attainment of the goals and objectives of the plan. A steering committee will be formed to review quarterly progress on the plan and each SMART Goal will have a principal responsible leader who will review more frequently progress on her/his SMART Goal. Deans, vice presidents, and other administrative leaders will also be responsible for the development of both five-year and annual plans for their units that will support attainment of both the SMART goals in the strategic plan and the vision.
Faculty and staff leadership of the various implementation topics that will facilitate attainment of the SMART goals 
will be identified, and multi-unit stakeholder teams will be assembled to develop the detailed strategies and tactics needed for success.
IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   22
ASSESSMENT OF PROGRESS
Assessment of Progress
The university’s senior academic and administrative leadership will assess progress quarterly by reviewing SMART 
Goal metrics and other key milestones developed in individual unit plans. An assessment advisory board consisting of faculty, staff, and students will meet regularly to review progress towards our goals and the attainment of our vision, and to recommend steps to accelerate accomplishment of those goals. This group will act independently of the normal annual reviews that are carried out by university leadership.
As assessment will lead to strategy change and new initiatives, and will be a key part of our plan going forward. Our 
assessment results will be reviewed by the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees twice per year and by the Board of Trustees annually.
Our Students and Their Success Comes First: A Strategic Plan for Illinois Tech 2020–2025  Confidential   23
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
10 WEST 35TH STREET
SUITE 1900
CHICAGO, IL 60616
WEB.IIT.EDUDiscover. Create. Solve.
