Vision
The institute aspires to be a harbinger of modern interdisciplinary technological advancement in the country and at a forefront of imparting quality education by use of innovative pedagogy culminating traditional with contemporary methods. The institute also envisions building best in class infrastructure that not just attracts outstanding faculty, staff and students but also help institute to create an atmosphere for developing technologically astute professionals with a strong entrepreneurial spirit.
Pursuance of Value Based Excellence in Science & Technology Education and Research.
To serve Humanity through enlightened and morally sound human capital.
To contribute to the development of the nation by solving the problems of the nation and society at large.
Mission
 
IIT(BHU) is committed to imparting quality education using modern teaching methods and by designing curriculum that is abreast with latest technological advancements in the industry. The institute continually pursues to solve complex societal problem and to support the nation in its march towards technological advancement. The institute is steadfast and resolute in creating an environment aimed at learning and development of students, faculty and staff alike. The institute continues to produce innovative research papers regularly published in leading world-renowned journals and magazines. IIT (BHU) is also forging new alliances with other institutions and is engaged in inter disciplinary technology advancement to solve key society and national problems. Broadly, IIT (BHU)'s mission is :-
To groom the next generation of thought leaders.
To impart high quality of research & innovation oriented education to enable students to solve challenging grand problems of the future.
To conduct innovative, fundamental and interdisciplinary research geared towards solving the societal problems while aligning with regional, national and international priorities.
To regularly interact and engage with Industry, Professionals, R&D establishments, Alumni and the Society to meet National and Regional needs as may be identified by Government of India, and concerned State Governments.
To collaborate and interact with Institutions of higher learning at Global and National Levels for enriching the Academic and R&D processes, activities and functionalities.
Objectives
To produce highly motivated and confident graduates for serving the nation and humanity.
Continuous engagement of Industry, Professionals, R&D establishments, Alumni and the Society.
Collaboration and interaction with Institutions of higher learning at Global and National Levels for enriching the academic and R&D processes, activities and functionalities.
Working for National and Regional needs as may be identified by Government of India, and concerned State Governments.
