    
       
   INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
 
 
 
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
Mission  
 
The driving force behind the 21st Century is 
the development of knowledge -intensive 
societies. It has led to establishment of new 
Institutes of higher learning in India. Indian 
Institute of Technology Indore, established 
in 2009, is part of the initiative that 
envisages India as a global knowledge and 
technology leader. Continuing with the 
tradition of the older IITs, IIT Indore aims to 
play an active role in propelling India on her 
growth -trajectory by focusing on research -
based education  and innovation driven 
research and entrepreneurship . IIT Indore 
aims to achieve this mission with 
humanistic concerns . 
 
  

    
       
   INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
 
 
 
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
Vision  
Academics:   
• To inculcate and promote an academic community with independence of 
thought and free expression of research and innovation ideas.  
• To provide a balance of continuously updated knowledge with an 
extensive hands -on training on sophisticated facilities.  
• To start new academic programs in the futuristic areas such as data 
science, electric vehicles , intelligent transport system, space engi neering, 
Indian scientific knowledge , etc. 
• To increase internationalization of the Institute by selecting increasing 
number of international students and engaging distinguished 
international faculty in teaching and research.  
• To increase candidates from Industries, Defense forces, and Engineering 
Institutions in different PG and PhD programs.   
• To increase involvement of adjunct faculty from Industries for teaching , 
research , and innovation . 
• To involve e xperts from reputed industry and Foreign  Universities for 
curricula design.  
 
Research , Development , and Entrepreneurship : 
• Promote inter -disciplinary research in science, engineering, and 
humanities and social sciences .  
• Conduct disruptive and social impacting research some chosen areas  
such as sustainable development, climate change, food and water 
security .   
• Promote industry -oriented research leading to new products, processes, 
and technologies .  
• Focu s on convergence of life sciences, medical sciences, and agricultural 
sciences with e ngineering . 
• Promote culture of start -ups and entrepreneurship by e stablishing of 
Industrial Research Park which will be a focal point in Central India . 
• Aggressive patenting and protection of IPR .  
  

    
       
   INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
 
 
 
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY INDORE  
 
Objective s 
 
• Enhance ment of academic , technological , 
and social  outreach of the Institute through 
societal research, education , healthcare, 
sanitation, and rural development . 
 
• Development of world class research and 
learning facilities for industries, teaching and 
research institutio ns.  
 
• Skill development and scaling up the 
research and innovation towards the national 
requirements.  
 
• To contribute to development of world class 
technological innovation in Engineering and 
Biomedical instrumentation, Defense, E -
vehicles, alternate energy resources , etc.   

