INTI International University
At INTI, we believe in an education that will empower you for life.
Gain the best quality education with world class facilities and resources, regardless of your field of studies.
Achieve an added edge while expanding your global perspectives through our collaborations with highly acclaimed international universities.
Experience quality education that prepares you to face the challenges in the global market.

Our innovative and collaborative approach through a holistic teaching and learning management system and strong collaboration with global industry leaders prepare you for the real world. Using the Canvas Learning System students can experience the following benefits:
Transparent, real-time collaborative platform to ensure every student contributes to team success.
Equipping students with 21st century skill sets such as critical thinking, creativity, collaboration and communication.

Take your learning experience to a whole new level by studying with the INTI Edge.  Our collaboration with highly acclaimed universities around the world enables your to gain an added edge of qualification while expanding your global perspectives.
Going beyond paper qualification, our internationally recognised education will enrich you with the right skills and attributes to excel at whatever you do and wherever you go.
At INTI, we have taken the lead to champion a whole new learning experience with an International, Innovative and Individualised kind of education.

Studying at INTI gives you an opportunity to develop and enhance your academic and personal development.
Every year more and more graduates join the workforce. Among a sea of graduates, there’s only one decisive way to stand out from the crowd and to get the job that you want – to demonstrate outstanding 21st century skills and gain work experience even before you graduate.
From our hands-on learning experience to our partnerships with industry leaders like LinkedIn, Google My Business, Microsoft and IBM our programmes truly enhance your employability.

Education must change to meet the needs of tomorrow’s world.

Be the champion of change, reinventing education for the dynamic leaders of the future.

We will provide the most international, innovative and individualised education.
Our core values
Student-centric
Trustworthy
Accountable
Respectful
Spirited

We have worked hard to create opportunities for you to set yourself apart from the pack. Therefore, studying a quality education at INTI is just a first step towards a great career.
At INTI, you will be given assistance to do active career planning through our INTI Graduate Placement process where you will learn all about career plans, resumes, interview skills, and grooming.
