PENN’S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
A Strategic Framework for the University of Pennsylvania Practice 
PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
A Strategic Framework for the University of Pennsylvania 
~Penn 
PREAMBLE 
L e t th e e xp e rim e nt b e m a d e . As Benjamin Franklin penned those words, his mind was ﬁred by lightning. He had theorized 
certain principles concerning the nature of electricity. The time had come to test those principles in practice. He would soon 
conduct his most famous experiment, ﬂying a kite and a key in order to draw down the lightning. His signature drive 
distinguished Franklin as one of the leading ﬁgures of the Enlightenment—a historical period of profound intellectual and 
political foment and transformation, encompassing everything from culture and science to politics and education. It is no 
coincidence that, at this same time, our founder also proposed the idea for Penn. 
Conceived in the crucible of intellectual, cultural, and global revolution, this University is unique in its DNA. Our founding 
ethos is that Franklinian striving to discover, disseminate, and employ knowledge for its sake and also for the beneﬁt of 
humankind. To draw down the lightning. 
In the centuries since, Penn has contributed much to the world. Educational opportunity that transforms lives. Breakthroughs 
that save countless lives. Deep and rich understanding that improves all of our lives. Among the world’s foremost urban 
research universities, Penn is more strongly positioned than ever in our teaching, research, clinical care, and service, together 
with our faculty, students, staﬀ, alumni, families, and neighbors. We have all that we need to plan boldly and strive for new 
heights of excellence in all Penn does. We also have a unique opportunity post-pandemic and in the midst of fraught debates 
about freedom of expression to invest even more in Penn’s greatest strength: our people and community. And we embark on 
this all at precisely the moment the world needs Penn most. 
Profound change once again deﬁnes our times. Faith in the promise of democratic self-government has eroded. We must 
contend with climate change and manage powerful technologies like generative artiﬁcial intelligence. We stand on the cusp of 
revolutionary changes in medicine and health. The gap is wide between those who have a lot and those who have too little. 
Hate and bigotry persist. And we require leaders—broadly and deeply learned, service-minded, and bearing all the other 
hallmarks of an excellent education. 
Penn is called upon to join in reaﬃrming and advancing the values that so shaped our founding, predicated on humanity in all 
we do. Like the moment our founder declared, Let the experiment be made, this is Penn’s time to stand tall on our principles 
and put them into practice for the future. 
OUR PLANNING PROCESS 
To begin planning for this moment, we invited the Penn community to consider two essential questions: (1) What does the 
world need from Penn? (2) How do we cultivate a community that will rise to that challenge? 
With these guideposts in place, we launched the Tomorrow, Together process, led by a committee of faculty, students, and 
staﬀ. The Red and Blue Advisory Committee sought input from across the University and our global alumni, families, and 
2 in Principle and Practice 
PREAMBLE 
* 
OUR PLANNING PROCESS 
* PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
2 
friends. These University citizens, led by Provost John L. Jackson, Jr., took on a considerable task, and they have been 
unfailingly wise, collaborative, and singularly focused on fulﬁlling their charge. 
Informed by the Committee’s important work and many other sources, the following strategic framework is responsive to our 
two guiding questions. I n P r i n c iple an d P r ac tic e: P en n ’s F o c u s o n T o m o r r o w captures what the world needs from Penn and 
how we will cultivate a community that rises to the challenge. 
IN PRINCIPLE AND PRACTICE: FOCUS PENN’S ON TOMORROW 
Penn’s principles are the essence of who we are. They are Penn’s enduring values and distinctive strengths. They are where 
we as a campus community stand. Yet, a principle without practice is a kite without a key. Penn’s practices are how we will act 
on our principles with passion and urgency. They are what we aspire to do and become. 
OUR PRINCIPLES 
The Anchored University 
● Our exceptional and diverse people, communities, and campus are our anchor, the foundation of all we do, and 
they guide and propel Penn. 
● Being an excellent Philadelphia neighbor and global citizen is essential to Penn’s mission. 
The Interwoven University 
● The more ideas and people from all backgrounds we bring to the table—and the more interconnected and less 
siloed our community—the more rigorous, more resourceful, and more eﬀective Penn is. 
● Leadership in interdisciplinary excellence distinguishes Penn. 
The Inventive University 
● Penn is a powerhouse for breakthroughs in all ﬁelds. 
● Penn addresses great challenges and opportunities. 
The Engaged University 
● Penn cultivates leaders who serve. 
● Penn seeks dialogue and collaboration across diﬀerences and divides. 
3 in Principle and Practice PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
IN PRINCIPLE AND PRACTICE: PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
* 
The Anchored University 
The Interwoven University 
The Inventive University 
The Engaged University OUR PRINCIPLES 
* 
3 
OUR PRACTICES 
● 
● ● ● ● 
These practices directly support and strengthen Penn’s core educational mission. They will help us channel Penn’s excellence 
and its boundless creative energy to meet the needs of our time. We will also be responsive to emerging ideas and agile in the 
face of constant change. These practices are thus meant to guide, not decide, our future course. We will pursue each as 
comprehensively as possible, engaging all our Schools, Centers, and people. 
● 
● Accelerate interdisciplinary pursuits 
Lead on great challenges of our time 
Grow opportunity and strengthen community 
Deepen connection with neighbors and the world 
Foster leadership and service 
PRACTICES EXPANDED 
Accelerate interdisciplinary pursuits 
○ Our University is distinctive for forging novel connections that span boundaries, advance knowledge, and 
improve lives. We will seek exponential growth in Penn’s interdisciplinary faculty support; even more 
inter-School teaching, projects, and programs; and rich opportunities for students and staﬀ to pursue novel 
collaborations across a wide range of domains. 
○ The arts and humanities are at the core of the human endeavor, bringing people together through deeper 
understanding of history, culture, social conditions, and empathy for others. They also foster problem-solving. 
We will seek new ways to strengthen and integrate them in all ﬁelds and amplify opportunities to explore 
Penn’s extraordinary repositories of culture and beauty on campus and beyond. 
○ Penn is a premier inventive powerhouse. From entrepreneurship to commercialization and technology 
transfer, Penn has established signiﬁcant infrastructure to make this campus and city a destination for 
innovators. We will further accelerate Penn as an epicenter for translating knowledge into action and solutions. 
○ Clim a te : Every person at Penn and all that we do has some nexus to the existential challenge of climate 
change. We must, in an all-in University eﬀort, do more. From leading energy science and policy across 
disciplines, to shedding light on the disproportionate eﬀects of climate change on the most vulnerable Lead on great challenges of our time 
4 in Principle and Practice 
OUR PRACTICES 
* Accelerate interdisciplinary pursuits 
Lead on great challenges of our time 
Grow opportunity and strengthen community 
Deepen connection with neighbors and the world 
Foster leadership and service 
PRACTICES EXPANDED 
* Accelerate interdisciplinary pursuits 
Lead on great challenges of our time PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
4 
communities, to designing and caring for the built environment, Penn will seek additional ways to support and 
Grow opportunity and strengthen community recruit the best minds; fuel initiatives that advance understanding and promise solutions; and adopt 
institutional best practices for the sake of our future and our planet. 
○ H e a lth: The pandemic cast in sharp relief the urgency of Penn’s groundbreaking work in life sciences and 
health across Schools and disciplines. To help ensure a healthier, safer global future, Penn will do even more to 
advance our health eﬀorts. We will further cement both Penn and the region as an epicenter for 
groundbreaking research and teaching, translational discovery, and policy expertise in life science, public 
health, and addressing inequalities borne of the social determinants of health. 
○ D a ta : From big data to large language model-powered AI, technological advances oﬀer the chance to unlock 
new understanding across a dizzying number of domains and at the same time may dramatically outpace 
society’s ability to assess and plan for the promises and consequences. We will lead in data-driven research, 
teaching, and applications while cultivating leading expertise on how society can develop and deploy powerful 
technologies beneﬁcially and justly. 
○ D e m ocra cy , trust, a nd truth: Democracy, trust, and truth: Penn is a broadly recognized leader in driving 
conversations about and promoting democratic values and institutions as well as the truth-seeking approach 
foundational to all universities. We will build on signature homegrown strengths and exceptionally 
broad-ranging expertise to uphold and champion this quintessential function of Penn and higher education 
broadly. This feels more challenging than ever right now. And even more necessary. 
● 
○ It is essential that Penn recruits and supports diverse and exceptional students, faculty, and staﬀ with the 
widest range of backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. We will seek to ensure that all are part of a 
common enterprise. We will, together, overcome hate in all its forms, and we will strengthen the bonds of our 
community. We will strive to ensure that everyone at Penn is supported so that each individual has what they 
need to meaningfully contribute and to thrive. We will also continue Penn’s historic commitment to building 
opportunity and expanding aﬀordability. 
○ Our campus planning should ensure design and function that serves its community for generations to come. 
We will pursue campus development that is state-of-the-art, sustainable, and thoughtfully improved to foster 
the interactions, experiences, and relationships that knit communities together. 
● Deepen connection with neighbors and the world 
○ We strive to be an excellent neighbor to Philadelphia and the region. Penn will pursue all that a collaborative 
urban institution and caring neighbor can do in this new era for cities everywhere. As one University, we will 
more centrally convene and coordinate all the work we do in meaningful partnership with our West 
Philadelphia neighbors, the city, and the region. We will leverage our academic expertise to shed light on, and 
seek solutions to, pressing urban challenges. 
○ We also strive to be a model global citizen. At a time when the tectonic plates of the international community 
are shifting rapidly, what is a leading American university’s role in the world? We will build on existing 
partnerships around the world and further invest in research, teaching, and learning on campus to help deﬁne 
what it means to be a global university, contributing solutions to the world’s most pressing problems. 
5 in Principle and Practice PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
Grow opportunity and strengthen community 
Deepen connection with neighbors and the world 
5 
● Foster leadership and service 
○ The world needs leaders now more than ever—discerning leaders who have knowledge, vision, creativity, and, 
above all, a commitment to making a diﬀerence for others and for the planet. Penn has long prepared students 
to be leaders. For the future, we will build on existing resources and initiate new ways of cultivating 
service-minded leadership among our students, and also our faculty and staﬀ. 
○ Producing and transmitting knowledge to the next generation, and ensuring that our students derive the 
utmost from their time here, is the core of the Penn experience. We will continually seek to advance 
state-of-the-art and innovative instruction as well as enhance student learning and living to best deliver on our 
mission of preparing future generations to think critically and lead eﬀectively. 
○ We will expand on existing opportunities and seek new means for convening, communicating, and 
collaborating across divisions and divides, especially when it is hardest to do. 
FORW ARD TO PENN’S CENTURY FOURTH 
Great universities are like great cities. They never press pause on their own reinvention. I n P r in c iple an d P r ac tic e enshrines 
Penn’s deﬁning strengths and values. It maps how we will act on our principles with passion and urgency. It is our kite and key 
to draw down the lightning. I n P r in c iple an d P r ac tic e is also a living framework, intended to aim our eﬀorts strategically while 
remaining open to reinvention as the world requires. 
The next phase will be implementation. Soon and in the months ahead, we will engage faculty, students, staﬀ, alumni, and 
others. Together, we will advance the principles and practices in this framework. We will partner with faculty, staﬀ, and 
students to inform next steps. We will also explore the use of seed grant funding to further engage the Penn community and 
accelerate creative thinking and programming. Some steps we take to implement I n P r i n c iple an d P r ac tic e will come soon. 
Some actions, more ambitious still, will take time to plan fully and enact to lasting, maximum eﬀect. 
I n P r in c iple an d P r ac tic e, as one University, we will continue to position Penn for excellence in all we do for years to come—to 
our fourth century and beyond. Let’s get started. 
6 in Principle and Practice 
Foster leadership and service 
FORWARD TO PENN'S FOURTH CENTURY 
[::> PENN'S FOCUS ON TOMORROW 
6 
