THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
JLU 2030
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
JLU 2030
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | PUBLICATION DETAILS
DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN 
JLU 2030
Published by: The President of Justus Liebig University Giessen 
Edited by: Staff Division Planning and Development 
Translated by: Sue Pickett
Design: sumner groh + compagnie 
Printed on 100 % recycled paper 
(FSC-certified and awarded the EU Ecolabel)
Justus-Liebig-Universität Gießen
Ludwigstraße 23
35390 Gießen
www.uni-giessen.de
Gießen 2020PUBLICATION DETAILS 
Medical Research Centre Seltersberg (cover photo): Hans Jürgen Landes 
JLU President Prof. Dr Joybrato Mukherjee (Foreword): JLU / Jonas Ratermann 
Justus Liebig (Section 1): Photo(graphic) Collections of the University Library and University Archive 
Blood cultures (Section 2): JLU / Katrina Friese 
Lecture hall with students (Section 3): JLU / Katrina Friese 
Lecture hall building (Section 3): JLU / Rolf K. Wegst 
Sperm whale skeleton (Section 4): JLU / Rolf K. Wegst 
Justus University for Children (Section 4): JLU / Sara Strüßmann 
Instituto CAPAZ (Section 4): CAPAZ / Luis Enrique Sierra 
Battery research (Section 4): Hessen creates knowledge / Michael Hosan 
Botanical Garden (Section 4): JLU / Holger Laake 
University Main Building (Section 5): JLU / Sebastian Ringleb 
Digital agriculture (Section 5): JLU / Katrina Friese 
Research facility for Environmental Monitoring and Climate Effects (Section 5): Wolfgang Obermaier 
Senate hall (Section 6): JLU / Sara Strüßmann 
Campus of the Future (Section 6): Max Dudler Architects AG PHOTO CREDITS
CONTENT | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
CONTENT
FOREWORD
1. GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
AND PROFILE
2.
RESEARCH
2.1
 R
esearch profile and focuses
2.2
 Suppor
t for early-career researchers
2.3
 R
esearch infrastructures
3. S
TUDIES AND TEACHING
3.1
 Range of pr
ogrammes and programme structures
3.2
 Quality assur
ance in studies and teaching
3.3
 T
eaching infrastructures
4.
TRANSFER
4.1
 Communicat
e and advise
4.2
 Apply and utilise
4.3
 T
ransfer infrastructures
5. S
TRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS
5.1
 Gender equality
, equal opportunities and diversity
5.2
 Human r
esources development
5.3
 
Internationalisation
5.4
 
Digitalisation
5.5
 
Sustainability
6.
GOVERNANCE
6.1
 Governanc
e, quality management and administration
6.2
 Pr
operty management and construction
6.3
 Budget and financ
es4
7
10
12
1619
22
252728
30
323334
36
3841424546
48
495254
4
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | FOREWORD
The Development Plan JLU 2030 sets out the key objectives of Justus Liebig University 
Giessen (JLU) for the forthcoming decade. The University's development planning for the 
2026-2030 period will be revised and specified in greater detail in coordination processes 
with the federal state of Hessen in 2025.
Our future development can build upon solid foundations. In the past development planning 
period, JLU – the most successful university in Hessen according to the Excellence Strategy of 
the federal German and Länder governments – has not only convincingly proven its ability to 
produce internationally visible top-level research. Developed in this context, the Liebig Concept 
contains action-guiding proposals for the 2020s. We have also succeeded in further increasing 
the breadth of research achievements and the volume of competitively acquired research funds. 
Consistently strong demand and high, steadily increasing satisfaction levels among students are 
testimony to the attractiveness and quality of the programmes offered by JLU. 
Our plans for the future carry forward and systematically develop the successful develop-
ment processes of the past years. Important milestones in the previous development plan-
ning period include the research strategy defined in the Liebig Concept to expand top-level 
research in large research networks and the Studies and Teaching review process to develop 
study programmes and structures in the 2020s. There have also been numerous develop-
ments in individual fields of action, such as the regulated introduction of the tenure-track 
professorship, significant expansion of our human resource development programmes and 
the establishment of JLU Information Points in strategically important partner countries at 
our partner universities as representations of the University abroad.
Building upon these successful milestones, the Development Plan JLU 2030 sets out clear 
goals for research, teaching and knowledge transfer as well as other fields of activity that are 
of special strategic importance. These include the consistent enhancement of our research 
profile and long-term consolidation of student numbers at an appropriate level through the 
provision of attractive, high-quality courses. However, we also intend to create new focuses  
in order to address the opportunities and challenges of the future in the spirit of our  
University. These include strengthening digitalisation processes in research and teaching and 
consistently embracing sustainability in all fields of activity at the University.
Our vision for the future is shaped not only by the insights we have drawn from the past, 
but also by our experiences of what is happening today. Times of crisis, such as those we are 
experiencing at the time this document is being finalised, in the face of the global COVID-19 FOREWORD

5
FOREWORD | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
FOREWORD
pandemic, pose particular challenges to society as a whole and to our University as an insti-
tution. They also highlight the special role the scientific community and universities play in 
developing fact-based answers to global questions and scientifically guided problem-solving 
strategies, and thus in securing the future for us all. The Development Plan provides JLU with 
a foundation and a framework within which we will fulfil our duty to act in the best interests of 
society as a whole in the years to come.
This Development Plan JLU 2030 has been prepared in agreement with administrative and 
academic decision-makers and was passed by the Executive Board of Justus Liebig Univer -
sity Giessen on 31 March 2020 with the support of the Senate on 25 March 2020 and the 
approval of the University Council on 26 March 2020.
On behalf of the Executive Board, I would like to thank the University and its members for 
their hard work and dedication over the past years and, in particular, I would like to express my 
thanks to all those who helped design and prepare the following Development Plan. 
Prof. Dr. Joybrato Mukherjee
President of Justus Liebig University Giessen
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PROFILE6
2. KAPITEL
FORSCHUNG
JLU continues to be guided by the principles of the man it is named after, Justus Liebig, who made ground-breaking discoveries in research, 
teaching and knowledge transfer in the 19th century. 
GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PROFILE | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN7
With around 28,000 students, more than 400 professors and over 5,500 employees, Justus 
Liebig University Giessen (JLU) is the second largest institute of higher education in the federal German state of Hessen. Its location in Central Hessen and ties with the greater metropolitan region of Frankfurt
 /
 Rhine-Main char
acterise both the geographical situation 
and social role of the University. JLU is not only one of the region's biggest employer, it is also the source of diverse collaborations and networks with partners in the city of Giessen and elsewhere in the region.
Founded as the "Ludoviciana" in 1607, JLU has played a pioneering role in research, teaching 
and knowledge transfer for over 400 years. JLU's goal and guiding principle has always been to combine outstanding achievements in research and teaching with a strong commitment to social responsibility. The three basic principles upon which JLU's success is based were laid down in the 19th century by Justus Liebig after whom the University is named: 1) excellence in basic research with a clear focus on societal requirements and areas of application in a broad range of disciplines, 2) support for early-career researchers through research-informed tea-ching and the early, systematic integration of young scientists in research projects, 3) develop-ment of regional, national and international networks. These basic principles continue to guide JLU's actions today.
As a "differentiated comprehensive university" ("differenzierte Volluniversität"), JLU has a cle-
arly defined teaching and research profile. Subjects range from the classical humanities and social sciences (including law, economics and business studies), psychology and sports science to the natural and life sciences (including human and veterinary medicine), which are organi-sed in altogether eleven faculties. The subject groups covered by the cultural sciences and life sciences define the University as a whole. Teacher training plays a special role in JLU's profile. JLU offers the broadest possible range of teacher training programmes in Hessen with nine of its eleven faculties involved in teacher training.
The research profile of JLU as a whole is characterised by two focus areas (SPBs), five areas of 
potential (PBs) and currently 28 accent areas (ABs). The SPBs and PBs mark out the main areas of collaborative research which are supported by extensive third party funding. The accent areas are the strategic focuses of one or several faculties that are not part of larger networks. The differentiation between the SPBs, PBs and ABs should be seen as a dynamic system that reflects the latest developments in the profile-forming research areas.Conditions and foundations
Guiding principles 
of Justus Liebig
JLU's profile in research and  
teaching as a "differentiated comprehensive university"SECTION 1
GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PROFILE
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PROFILE8
Figure I represents JLU's profile as a differentiated comprehensive university (> Fig. 1: JLU 
profile). JLU's development and profile-building activities have achieved significant success in the past years. In the THE list of the world's best universities, for example, JLU has ran-ked among the top 400 universities for many years. As the fund-managing university of the Cardio-Pulmonary Institute (CPI) Cluster of Excellence led jointly with the Goethe University Frankfurt and as a participating institution in the POLiS – Post Lithium Storage Excellence Cluster of the University of Ulm and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, JLU was able to posi-tion itself as the most successful university in Hessen in the Excellence Strategy of the federal German and Länder governments in 2018. JLU has also enjoyed success in recent years in all other major federal German and Länder government funding programmes, including all rounds of the Initiative for Excellence, the Early-Career Promotion Pact, the Programme for Women Professors, the Quality Pact for Teaching and the Teacher Training Quality Initiative.
The University's development planning builds upon these achievements and aims to strategi-
cally develop and strengthen all key areas of activity. The Plan distinguishes here between the 
01
Law
02
Economics and 
Business Studies 
03
Social Sciences 
& Cultural Studies 
04
History and 
Cultural Studies 
05
Language, Literature, 
Culture 06
Psychology and 
Sports Science 07
Mathematics and 
Computer Science, 
Physics, Geography 08
Biology & Chemistry 09
Agricultural Sciences, 
Nutritional Sciences 
& Environmental 
Management 10
Veterinary Medicine 11
Medicine Life Sciences 
Cultural Studies 
Humanities and Social Sciences Natural and LifeSciences
Teacher TrainingAccent areas of the faculties Focus areas 
Areas of potentialCollaborative 
research proﬁleFig. 1 JLU profile: JLU's profile as a "differentiated comprehensive university" covers the entire range of subjects from law and business studies,  
the humanities, social sciences, psychology and sport to natural and life sciences. 
Success of overall  
university development
GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PROFILE | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN9
three performance dimensions of research, teaching and transfer (> Sections 2  –  4) as well as 
five str
ategic cross-sectional dimensions (equality, human resources development, internatio-
nalisation, digitalisation, sustainability) (> Section 5), which support performance in research, 
teaching and transfer and are of particular importance to the University as a whole. Univer -
sity governance (> Section 6) is a separate area of activity and – with the areas of quality management, administration, construction and properties as well as budget and finance – covers structures and the foundations for target achievement in the above-mentioned fields. The development of academic infrastructures is addressed in the context of the performance dimensions of research, teaching and transfer. The structure of this Development Plan is based on these areas of activity.
JLU has developed specific strategic concepts for the performance dimensions research,  
teaching and transfer. For example, the "Liebig Concept. Leading Science, Serving Society. 
Strategy for the Expansion of Top-Level Research at Justus Liebig University Giessen" – which was prepared as part of the federal German and Länder governments' Excellence Stra-tegy in 2018 and revised in 2020 – defines strategic planning for the area of research. The "Strategy Paper on Studying and Teaching", which was drawn up in 2019 on the basis of the University's internal review process, formulates objectives and strategies for the develop-ment of study programmes and programme quality for the 2020s. Also prepared in 2019, the Transfer Strategy sets out the basic principles and objectives of development of this area of activity. JLU has also devised specific strategic concepts for the cross-sectional dimen-sions of equality, human resources development and internationalisation. Corresponding strategic concepts for digitalisation and sustainability will be established by 2021
 /
 22. 
The 
University's development planning is based on and coordinated with the aforementioned specific strategic concepts. These should be seen as an addition to and specification of the lines of development set out in the Development Plan JLU 2030.
The Development Plan JLU 2030 formulates priority objectives for the individual fields of 
activity and, together with the 2021
 –
 2025 Higher Education P
act of Hessen, forms the basis 
for external target agreements between JLU and the state of Hessen. Together with the Higher Education Pact of Hessen and the external target agreements, it is also the basis and reference for the development planning of the faculties, which are agreed by the Executive Board and faculties as part of the internal target agreements 2022
 –
 2025.
The goals and measur
es set out in the Development Plan JLU 2030 are implemented according 
to these principles with the involvement of the University's governing bodies, and are coor -
dinated continuously by the Executive Board and faculties. Implementation is monitored and supported by staff divisions and University administration. As part of the developmental plan-ning quality cycle (> Section 6.1), an interim evaluation will be conducted in 2024 to assess the extent to which objectives have been achieved. The results of the evaluation will provide a basis for the revision of the development planning for the University as a whole with regard to the Higher Education Pact period of 2026
 –
 2030.P erformance dimensions and  
strategic cross-sectional dimensions
Strategic concepts for individual 
fields of action
Implementation of  
development planning
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH10
JLU has consistently increased its research output in recent years. The success of Giessen's  
researchers in national and international research programmes, most of them competition-  
based, is reflected in an increase in the levels of third-party funding the University has received.  
Acquired funds (project funds for research and own earnings) increased from around € 95 
million in 2015 to some € 110 million in 2018. The Excellence Strategy of the German 
federal and Länder governments, according to which JLU is the most successful university in 
Hessen, has also confirmed the University's potential and ability to develop internationally 
visible, top-level research. JLU is the fund-managing university of the cluster of excellence 
Cardio-Pulmonary Institute, CPI, (together with Goethe University Frankfurt) and is also a 
participating institution in the cluster of excellence "POLiS – Post Lithium Storage" under 
the leadership of Ulm University and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. JLU also boasts other 
recognised top-level research areas that have achieved success in collaborative research and 
received appropriate funding (> Fig. 2: Third party-funded collaborative research projects). 
JLU's research output is also supported by a broad spectrum of highly successful individual 
research initiatives in all subject groups.
JLU's research success is supported by three pillars: 1) the systematic development of the 
University's overall research profile through the identification and consolidation of strategic 
top-level research areas and provision of broad-based support, 2) systematic support for ear -
ly-career researchers and 3) the development of scientific infrastructures according to research 
needs and potential. The development planning for the performance dimension of research is 
based on these three fields of activity.SECTION 2
RESEARCH
Increase in  
research output
Success in Excellence 
Strategy programme

RESEARCH | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN11
• Antiproton Annihilation at Darmstadt (PANDA) at the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research in Europe (FAIR) 
• German Centre for Infection Research (DZIF) 
• German Centre for Lung Research (DZL) 
• German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure – Bielefeld-Giessen Center for Microbial Bioinformatics (de.NBI - BiGi) 
• Cooperation with the GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research 
• Medical Informatics in Research and Care in University Medicine (MIRACUM) 
• Post-traumatic stress disorder in adults related to childhood maltreatment – improving its understanding and treatment
• Risk Assessment of the Children of Mentally Ill Parents 
•  Improvement of Care for Children and Adolescents with Inflammatory Bowel Disease with modern Big Data / eHealth Technologies (CED-KQN)
• Breeding Value in Hybrid Cultures (plant breeding)
• Cluster of Excellence – Cardio-Pulmonary Institute (CPI) 
• Research Training Group - GRK Molecular Pathogenesis of Male Reproductive Disorders
• Research Training Group - GRK Regulatory Networks in the mRNA Life Cycle: From Coding to Noncoding RNA
• Research Training Group - GRK Substitute Materials for Sustainable Energy Technologies
• Justus Liebig University Giessen Clinician Scientist Program in Biomedical Research (JLU-CAREER) 
• Collaborative Research Centre - CRC Pulmonary Hypertension and 'Cor Pulmonale'
• Collaborative Research Centre - CRC RNA Viruses: RNA Metabolism, Host Response and Pathogenesis 
•  Collaborative Research Centre / Transregio - CRC/TRR Innate Immunity of the Lung: Mechanisms of Pathogen Attack and  
Host Defense in Pneumonia
• Collaborative Research Centre / Transregio - CRC/TRR Chromatin Changes in Differentiation and Malignancy
• Collaborative Research Centre / Transregio - CRC/TRR Dynamics of Security. Types of Securitization from a Historical Perspective
• Collaborative Research Centre / Transregio - CRC/TRR Cardinal Mechanisms of Perception: Prediction, Valuation, Categorization 
• DFG Priority Programme - SPP Gene and Cell-Based Therapies for Treating Neuroretinal Degeneration
• LOEWE Research Cluster Regions of Conflict in Eastern Europe (KÖE) 
• LOEWE Centre Insect Biotechnology (ZIB) 
• LOEWE Centre Novel Drug Targets against Poverty-Related and Neglected Tropical Infectious Diseases (DRUID) • Circular RNA Biology Training Network: from Biogenesis to Biomarkers 
• Crimean Congo Hemorrhagique Fever Vaccine 
• Dynamics in Vision and Touch - the look and feel of stuff 
• European Nuclear Science and Application Research 2 
• Innovation Laboratory "High Performance Materials" 
• Innovation Laboratory "Physics Under Extreme Conditions" 
• Iodine Fed Advanced Cusp Field Thruster 
• Regulated Assembly of Molecular Machines for DNA REPAIR: a Molecular Analysis Training Network 
• TRANSlating the Role of Mitochondria in Tumorigenesis 
• Visual History of the Holocaust: Rethinking Curation in the Digital Age • German-Colombian Excellence Centre for Marine Science (CEMarin)
• German-Colombian Peace Institute (Instituto CAPAZ)
• SDGnexus Network FEDERAL
GERMAN  
GOVERN-  
MENT 
DAAD
GERMAN
ACADEMIC
EXCHANGE
SERVICE
LANDLAND
HESSENEUDFG
GERMAN
RESEARCH
FOUNDATION
Fig. 2 Third party-funded collaborative research projects: JLU's research output is reflected in the large number of third party-funded colla -
borative research projects. This list shows collaborative research projects with a total funding volume of over € 1 million as of 1 January 2020.
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH12
2.1 Priority development goals: Research profile and focuses
2.1a JLU has four top-level research areas with an international reach.
Indicator: JLU will make four top-level research areas eligible for 
cluster applications in the next round of the Excellence Strategy, at 
least two of which will be successful.
2.1b JLU has increased the breadth of its research output.
Indicator: Third-party funds for the University as a whole will be 
increased and consolidated on an appropriately long-term basis in 
relation to basic funding by 2025: Project funds for research (Pro-
jektmittel Forschung) will increase to 33% in relation to basic state 
funding (Erfolgsplanzuschuss des Landes) (2018: 30 %).2.1 RESEARCH PROFILE AND FOCUSES
JLU has consistently developed and systematically refined its research profile in the past 
years. At the overall university level, three profile categories have been defined: 1) focus areas 
(SPBs), 2) areas of potential (PBs) and 3) accent areas of the faculties (ABs). The categories 
each refer to research areas that are of particular importance to the future development of the 
University's overall research profile as a result of special achievements and  / or from a strategic 
perspective. The three categories distinguish between the different stages of research focus 
development and expansion. These profile-building areas are identified and differentiated 
according to clearly defined criteria and with the approval of all governing bodies and decisi-
on-makers. This is an ongoing process of adaptation and development, which means that areas 
of potential, for example, can be developed into focus areas.
While each of the focus areas and areas of potential are large collaborative research fields 
that have excellent foundations and previous achievements, also in the context of large third 
party-funded collaborative research projects, the faculties' areas of potential reflect strategic 
prioritisations that are pivotal to the development planning of one or more faculties beyond 
large collaborations. JLU has currently identified two focus areas, five areas of potential and 28 
accent areas of the faculties (> Fig. 3: Focus areas and areas of potential).
JLU's research profile is being developed according to the strategy document "The Liebig 
Concept. Leading Science, Serving Society. Strategy for the Expansion of Top-Level Research 
at Justus Liebig University Giessen", which was drawn up in 2018 in the context of the German 
federal and Länder governments' Excellence Strategy and revised in 2020, which formulates 
sub-goals and specific measures to achieve the objectives of the development planning. The 
Liebig Concept is based on a comprehensive analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the 
performance dimension of research, taking into account the performance dimensions of tea-
ching, transfer and research infrastructures, which are considered ancillary in this context. This 
review and analysis provide guidance for development planning in the area of research.
The years ahead will see a focus on the further development and consolidation of the identi-
fied SPBs and PBs. At least four of these areas will be prepared for cluster applications in the Focus areas (SPBs),  
areas of potential (PBs) and  
accent areas (ABs)
The Liebig Concept
Consolidation of focus 
areas and areas of potential
RESEARCH | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN13
PARTICIPATING FACUL TIES 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
Focus areas 
Cardiopulmonary System (heart  / lung) 
Mechanisms of Perception and Adaptation 
Areas of potential 
Bioresources (Focus: Insects) 
Infections and Medicines 
Smallest Particles 
Culture – Conflict – Security (Focus: Eastern Europe) 
Material and Energy (Focus: Storage Materials) 
Fig. 3 Focus areas and areas of potential: The two focus areas and five areas of potential at JLU profile top-level research in large networks 
at JLU. 
Promoting the breadth 
of research outputnext round of the Excellence Strategy as top-level research areas with an international range 
and in this way, in association with partner universities, attract at least two cluster grants 
for JLU. The SPBs and PBs will be strengthened through a strategically oriented professorial 
appointment policy, the creation and promotion of internal university structures, the acquisi-
tion of large national and international funding formats and the systematic use of appropriate 
federal state funding, especially within the context of LOEWE, the "state offensive for the 
development of scientific and economic excellence".
Apart from raising its profile in the area of large collaborative research initiatives, the develop-
ment planning aims to promote research output in terms of range, as reflected in publications, 
third-party funding, rankings  / awards, support for early-career researchers, knowledge transfer 
and networks. The indicator used for this goal focuses on the development of third-party 
funding since this reflects the externally reviewed, competitive success and academic reputa-
tion of the University's research. To increase the breadth of its research performance, JLU will 
prioritise three areas: 1) development of research support, 2) further consolidation of regional 
networking, and 3) measures to continually enforce quality assurance in research.
To support research, a wide range of JLU's own funding instruments are available as part of the 
JLU tool box for research funding (> Fig. 4: Tool box for research funding) – from individual 
grants to the establishment of interdisciplinary scientific centres. These will be expanded in the 
coming years through the needs-based development of internal funding instruments, incen-
tive systems and the further expansion of instruments and measures to support early-career 
researchers and develop human resources (> Sections 2.2 and 5.2).
Networking and collaborations, especially at regional level, will be further strengthened and 
expanded. This occurs in two directions:
a) Based upon the successful development and widely visible establishment of the Research 
Campus of Central Hessen (FCMH), which has been supported with federal state funds since 
2016, this cooperation project with Philipps-Universität Marburg and TH Mittelhessen University 
of Applied Sciences (THM) will be continued after state funding expires at the end of 2020.
b) Cooperation with partners in the metropolitan region of Frankfurt  / Rhine-Main, to 
which Giessen also belongs, will be systematically developed. In particular, cooperation 
with partners at Goethe University will be supported and developed.Research support
Regional networking and  
collaborations
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH14
NW
VNFinancial (human and  / or material resources) 
Centrally 
Support for early-career researchers Job-specific 
Decentrally 
Networking and collaborationsStructural 
In cooperation with partners TYPE OF SUPPORT 
DECISION 
FOCUS NWFlexiFunds  
FCMH for collaborative 
projects with UMR  
and/or THM Funding of 
Giessen University 
Association and JLU- 
affiliated foundations 
VNStrategy fund of 
Liebig Concept/
ExStrat:  
Preparation Excellence 
Strategy 
VN
Additional   
academic permanent 
positions 
NW
NWNWDoctoral  
scholarships:  
JLU, GCSC, Gender 
Equality Concept and the 
Faculty of Medicine  
NW
Joint   
professorial  
appointments with  
university-external 
partners 
VN
NWVN
Creation of  
FCMH campus focuses 
VNVNNW NW
NWNW
VN
TOOLBOX 
FOR RESEARCH 
FUNDING 
Establishment of  
cross-university  
facilities   
(§47 Hessen Higher 
Education Act) Postdoc fund 
of PCMO Prizes from JLU   
and JLU-affiliated
 foundations 
Establishment of   
core facilities JUSTUS Plus:  
posts for interna -
tional early-career 
researchers 
Establishment 
of accelerated 
appointment 
of successors    
(professorship) 
 Areas of potential 
and focus areas:  
Confirmation by 
Executive Board and 
Senate Accent areas:   
Confirmation by 
Executive Board 
and DeaneryResearch grants:  
Kick-off funding,  
applications for  
third-party funding  
for postdocs Research Sponsorship  
Fund – Creation of  
incentives through  
special allocation Kick-off funding 
through faculty Internationalisation  
Fellowships for research  
visits abroad Support fund for  
interdisciplinary  
collaborative  
research projects 
Fig. 4 Toolbox for research funding: JLU has a wide range of its own instruments to support research. A distinction is made between financial, 
job-specific and long-term structural measures. 
Existing cooperations with university-external partners in the region (> Section 5: Loca-
tions and partners) will also be continued and strengthened. This occurs on two levels:
a) The successful strategy to endorse Giessen's status as a location (or second location) for 
university-external research facilities will be continued. By the end of 2022, for example, 
the new non-university Institute for Lung Health will be established, initially under the 
umbrella of the German Centre for Lung Gene Research (DZL).
b) Existing cooperations with university-external research facilities in the region of Central 
Hessen and Frankfurt  / Rhine-Main will be continually developed and supported, in particular, 
the research focuses in the SPBs, PBs and ABs.Funding from 
Behring Röntgen  
for medical research  
with UMRJunior Science  
and Teaching Units  
(JUST’US):  
Full scholarships  
for external and  
 internal postdocs
Establishment of 
interdisciplinary 
research centres Establishment of 
graduate centres Establishment  
Liebig professorships 
(honorary professorship) Establishment of  
senior professorships 
Establishment of  
part-time  
professorships 
Additional  
academic project 
positions 
Establishment of  
jobs/research  
positions 
RESEARCH | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN15
VILLMAR 
•  JLU agricultural teaching and  
research facilities GROSS-GERAU 
•  JLU agricultural teaching and rese-
arch facilitiesDARMSTADT
• German Poland-Institute
•  GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy  
Ion Research 
•  Helmholtz Research Academy  
Hessen for FAIR 
FRANKFURT 
• Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies 
• House of Logistics & Mobility 
•  House of Pharma & Healthcare
•  Senckenberg Nature Research SocietyBAD NAUHEIM 
•  Campus Kerckhoff at JLU and its 
Faculty of Medicine 
•  Max-Planck-Institute for Heart and 
Lung Research
HANAU
•  Fraunhofer Research Institution for 
Materials Recycling and Resource 
Strategies LANGEN
•  Paul-Ehrlich-Institute (Federal Insti-
tute for Vaccines and Biomedicines) ACROSS UNIVERSITY SITES 
•  Research Campus of Central Hessen (together 
with TH Mittelhessen University of Applied 
Sciences and Philipps-Universität Marburg) 
RAUISCHHOLZHAUSEN 
•  JLU agricultural teaching and rese-
arch facilities GIESSEN 
•  German Centre for Infection Research  
(partner location Giessen-Marburg-Langen)
•  German Centre for Lung Research  
(DZL) (based in Giessen) 
•  Research Division Bioresources of the  
Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular  
Biology and Applied Ecology IME 
•  Institute for Lung Health  
(under development) 
•  Kerckhoff Institute for Heart Research with 
Justus Liebig University Giessen gGmbH 
•  Agricultural teaching and research  
facilities at JLU 
•  TransMIT society for technology  
transfer mbH
MARBURG
•  Herder Institute for Historical Rese-
arch on East Central Europe 
•  Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial 
Microbiology 
CENTRAL HESSEN
METROPOLITAN REGION  
FRANKFURT / RHINE-MAIN BELONGING TO  
BOTH REGIONS 
JLU sites 
University-external sites of 
cooperation partners Marburg
Giessen
DarmstadtFrankfurtHanauBad NauheimRauischholzhausen
Langen
Groß-Gerau Villmar
Fig. 5 Locations and partners: JLU takes advantage of its dual affiliation both to the Frankfurt / Rhine-Main metropolitan region and the  
Central Hessen region to establish regional networks. The map shows JLU's locations and university-external cooperation partners in  
Central Hessen and in the Frankfurt / Rhine-Main metropolitan region. 
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH16
2.2 SUPPORT FOR EARLY-CAREER RESEARCHERS
The systematic support for young scholars and researchers has been one of the University's  
strategic priorities for many years. JLU demonstrated its pioneering role in the area of 
structured doctoral programmes with the establishment of the International Graduate 
Centre for the Study of Culture (GCSC), which was funded in both rounds of the federal and  
Länder governments' Excellence Initiative from 2006-2019. Three interdisciplinary and 
interfaculty graduate centres have also been successfully established at JLU in recent 
years, offering structured support programmes for doctoral students in almost all dis-
ciplines at JLU. To continually guarantee quality assurance in the area of research, JLU will regularly align 
existing instruments (including target agreements with the faculties, regular internal and 
external peer review procedures, ombudsperson) in terms of use and design to requirements. 
Furthermore, existing guidelines on good scientific practice will be updated on the basis 
of the German Research Foundation's (DFG) "Guidelines for Safeguarding Good Scientific 
Practice", which were published in 2019. Quality assurance in research is embedded in the 
University's quality management system. In future, quality management in the field of rese-
arch will also be supported by the Research Council, which was newly established in 2020 
as a governing body consisting of top internal and external scientists who will advise the 
Executive Board on research issues (> Section 6.1). New challenges for quality assurance in 
research resulting from the increasing digitalisation of research methods and procedures, 
especially in research data management, are addressed separately in the Digitalisation Stra-
tegy 2030 (> Section 5.4).Quality assurance in research
Structured doctoral 
programmes
Subject-specific 
offers for doctoral 
candidatesSubject-specific 
offers for doctoral 
candidatesSubject-specific 
offers for doctoral 
candidatesSubject- 
specific offers  
for postdocsSubject- 
specific offers  
for postdocsSubject- 
specific offers  
for postdocs
Giessen Graduate Centre for  
the Life SciencesGiessen Graduate Centre for  
Social Sciences, Business,  
Economics and LawInternational Graduate Centre  
for the Study of Culture and  
Giessen Graduate Centre for 
HumanitiesInterdisciplinary qualification and further training programmes
Individual advice on career paths and options
Mentoring servicePOSTDOC CAREER AND MENTORING OFFICE
Fig. 6 Structures of support for young researchers: The three interdisciplinary and cross-fa -
culty graduate centres and the centrally based Postdoc Career and Mentoring Office offer 
customised support measures to early-career researchers from doctorate and postdoc phase 
to (tenure-track) professorship. 
RESEARCH | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN17
Support structures of the 
Postdoc Career and 
Mentoring O ffice (PCMO)
Implementation of the  
tenure-track professorship
2.2 Priority development goal: Support for early-career researchers
2.2 
 JL
U has a structured overall system for supporting young 
researchers in all subject groups and faculties.
Indicators: 1) By 2023, JLU will have graduate centres that cover 
the entire spectrum of subjects; all faculties will be actively invol-ved in graduate centres. 2) JLU's tenure-track system and support structures (PCMO) will be evaluated by 2025 and developed accordingly.
Implementation and evaluation 
of the tenure-track system
Consolidation of postdoctoral  
structures and general 
availability of graduate centresEncouraged by its success in both rounds of the Joint Federal Government-Länder Fun-
ding Programme for Junior Academics (Early-Career Promotion Pact) in 2017 and 2019, JLU has significantly expanded and further institutionalised funding structures for postdocs and tenure-track professorships in recent years, notably through the establishment of the Postdoc Career and Mentoring Office (PCMO). Graduate schools, PCMO and the Human Resources Development division thus offer closely coordinated support structures for young scholars on all career levels (> Fig. 6: Structures of support for young researchers).
In 2017, JLU systematically implemented the instrument for tenure-track professorships and 
designed a transparently structured procedure for the academic qualification phase (> Fig. 7: Tenure-track system at JLU). Based on this procedure, JLU currently fills – and will continue to fill – 20
 – 30 % of all newly vacant prof
essorships according to the tenure-track model. This is 
supported by the long-term planning of professorship and professorial appointment practices that is continuously coordinated by the faculties and the Executive Board, as documented in the internal target agreements.
Development planning aimed at promoting early-career researchers are based on the objectives 
formulated in JLU's Early-Career Promotion Pact application and also use the 18 professorships acquired in this programme to implement the tenure-track model and corresponding support measures as a pilot scheme. The objectives defined in the Early-Career Promotion Pact include:  
1) JLU fulfils its self-imposed tenure-track quota of 20-30% and systematically implements
the developed tenure-track procedure. After completion of the initial probationary procedu-res, a comprehensive evaluation of the overall system is planned by 2025. Based on this, theprocedure will be adapted or optimised as required.
2) Funding, advisory and training opportunities for young scholars will be further expan-
ded within the context of existing structures. When the Early-Career Promotion Pact fun-ding expires, the PCMO will be consolidated and developed on the basis of a positiveevaluation and in future, too, will continue to work closely with the graduate centres. Inthe area of structured post-graduate studies, JLU will set up a fourth graduate centre tocover the classic natural sciences and psychology so that every doctoral student at JLUcan use a subject-specific graduate centre and all faculties are actively involved in onecentre. The basic structure of GCSC has been secured with the University's own fundssince Excellence funding expired at the end of 2019. The GCSC will act as a basic structurefor JLU's humanities profile and also foster the development of research initiatives fromhumanities subject group.
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH18
2.3 RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURES
Excellence in research requires appropriate infrastructures. Thanks to construction pro-
jects (> Section 6.2) such as the new chemistry building and the medical research centre, JLU has been able to expand and improve the infrastructural facilities of certain areas in recent years. To support its cutting-edge research areas, JLU is also focusing on the esta-blishment of core facilities, which pool scientific equipment and infrastructures spatially Statement on progress 
by the Evaluation Committee on the 
basis of self-evaluation report, statement 
from Deanery, external expert opinion, if 
applicable personal meeting with TT professor 
Review of progress 
by Executive Board 
Communication of results to 
TT professor and Dean 
Development meeting 
between TT professor, Dean and 
member of the Executive Board 
1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year 6th year 
1st status meeting 
of 
TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Board2nd status meeting 
of 
TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Boardprogess meeting 
TT pr
ofessor and Dean, 
member of Executive 
Board3rd status meeting 
of 
TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Board
Continuous support through TT support programme and Postdoc Career and Mentoring Oﬃce Recruitment authorisation 
by agreement between the 
Deanery and Executive Board 
(Basis: university, criteria-based 
TT planning) 
Professorial appointment procedure 
according to established JLU model 
Individual target agreement for appoint-
ment procedures 
between TT professor, President and Dean Recommendation on statement of progress 
by the Evaluation Committee based on a 
self-evaluation report, statement from 
Deanery, external expert opinion, if applicable 
personal meeting with TT professor 
Statement on progress 
by Executive Board 
Communication of results to 
TT professor and Dean 
Permanent 
transfer of 
professorship Expiry of 
employment 
relationship or 
bridging year PROFESSORIAL APPOINTMENT INTERIM EVALUATION FINAL EVALUATION 
Before probationary 
phase60 – 66th month 
4th status meeting 
TT pr
ofessor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive BoardBridging year 30 – 36th month 
Fig. 7 JLU's tenure-track system: Parallel to the systematic implementation of the tenure track professorship, JLU has developed an elabora-tely formulated monitoring and support system for the qualification phase of tenure-track professors. 
Use of newly established  
categories of staff
Support of top-level research3) In future, JLU will make greater use of the newly established categories of staff  (> Fig. 17: Staff categories in Section 5.2) when filling academic posts in order to improvethe transparency and plannability of the career paths of young scholars and simultaneouslyrecruit highly qualified young researchers to JLU with attractive job profiles. New job cate-gories such as "research group leader with continuous functions in research and support forearly-career researchers" and "lecturer with continuous functions in teaching", are intendedspecifically to create attractive, permanent career options alongside professorships.
RESEARCH | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN19
Statement on progress 
by the Evaluation Committee on the 
basis of self-evaluation report, statement 
from Deanery, external expert opinion, if 
applicable personal meeting with TT professor 
Review of progress 
by Executive Board 
Communication of results to 
TT professor and Dean 
Development meeting 
between TT professor, Dean and 
member of the Executive Board 
1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year 6th year 
1st status meeting 
of 
TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Board2nd status meeting 
of TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Boardprogess meeting 
TT professor and Dean, 
member of Executive 
Board3rd status meeting 
of TT professor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive Board
Continuous support through TT support programme and Postdoc Career and Mentoring Oﬃce Recruitment authorisation 
by agreement between the 
Deanery and Executive Board 
(Basis: university, criteria-based 
TT planning) 
Professorial appointment procedure 
according to established JLU model 
Individual target agreement for appoint-
ment procedures 
between TT professor, President and Dean Recommendation on statement of progress 
by the Evaluation Committee based on a 
self-evaluation report, statement from 
Deanery, external expert opinion, if applicable 
personal meeting with TT professor 
Statement on progress 
by Executive Board 
Communication of results to 
TT professor and Dean 
Permanent 
transfer of 
professorship Expiry of 
employment 
relationship or 
bridging year PROFESSORIAL APPOINTMENT INTERIM EVALUATION FINAL EVALUATION 
Before probationary 
phase60 – 66th month 
4th status meeting 
TT pr
ofessor and 
Dean, member of 
Executive BoardBridging year 30 – 36th month 
2.3 Priority development goal: Research infrastructures
2.3 
 JL
U has implemented an overall concept for the ongoing develop-
ment of its research infrastructures.
Indicators: 1) Based on an appropriate overall concept (including 
investment and utilisation concept), JLU will establish two new interdisciplinary core facilities by 2025 to support top-level rese-arch. 2) By 2023, JLU will document its entire research equipment inventory in a regularly updated digital equipment roadmap and by 2025 establish a digital core facility management system. 3) JLU will have fully implemented the research information system by 2025 and it will be systematically used for research monitoring.
Overall concept for the development 
of research infrastructures and core facilities
Digital equipment roadmapand organisationally and make these available across faculties. The High-Performance 
Computing Core Facility (HPC), the Central Facility for Laboratory Animals (ZVTH) and the Bender Institute of Neuroimaging (BION) have been set up in the context of pilot projects as core facilities with appropriate statutes and utilisation plans. Specific rese-arch infrastructures will also be brought together in the University's research centres  
(> Fig. 8: Research infrastructures) and in special infrastructural facilities such as the Biomedical Research Centre Seltersberg. Efforts have also been initiated to develop a university-wide system to optimise inventory documentation and use of all (large) equipment and infrastructures.
By implementing a research information system (JLU-FIS) as part of the federal sta-
te-funded collaborative project Research Information System of Hessen (HeFIS), JLU aims to enhance the visibility and strategic monitoring of university research. Initial pilot phases have already been conducted with three faculties.
As a basis for research infrastructure planning, JLU will develop and implement an overall 
concept to strategically develop its research infrastructures: 
1) JLU will devise an overall strategy to develop existing and establish new core facilities.
This also includes a university-wide investment and utilisation plan as well as the establis-hment of two new core facilities based on this concept.
2) JLU will document its entire inventory of research infrastructures in a digital equipment
roadmap and optimise the use of these infrastructures throughout the University througha digital core facility management system. This will be coordinated with processes forregistering research infrastructures which have already been initiated as part of the Rese-arch Campus of Central Hessen.
3) The research information system will be implemented throughout the University and
linked and used via appropriate interfaces. This should also help improve the quality of theUniversity's research planning, e.g. according to internal target agreements.
4) JLU's Interdisciplinary Research Centres are regularly monitored and, if positively
evaluated, continued and developed on an ongoing basis. In future, the research centreswill be linked more strongly with the support of the focus areas and areas of potential.Implementation of research information system
Further development of  
interdisciplinary research centres
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | RESEARCH20
Centre for International 
Development and Environ-
mental Research (ZEU) 
Centre for Media and 
Interactivity (ZMI) 
Interdisciplinary research centres at JLU Core facilities (as of 1 January 2020) Town Centre Campus 
Campus for Natural  
and Life Sciences 
3Rs Centre 
(ICAR3R)
Imaging Unit 
(under development)
Central Facility for 
Laboratory Animals 
(ZVTH)
High-Performance-  
Computing (HPC) 
Centre for Materials 
Science (ZfM) 
Giessen Centre for East 
European Studies (GiZo) 
Bender Institute of 
Neuroimaging (BION) Campus for Cultural  
Studies and Humanities 
Fig. 8 Research infrastructures: Excellent interdisciplinary research output at JLU is promoted by interdisciplinary research centres and the 
systematic establishment of core facilities. For example, the area of potential "Materials and Energy (SP Storage Materials)" will be 
further reinforced thanks to the continuation of the Research Centre for Materials Science 
(ZfM), which has been supported to date with funds from the federal state's innovation 
and structural development budget. To enhance JLU's competence in animal welfare, an 
area of key importance to several SPBs and PBs, the Icar3R – Interdisciplinary Centre for 
3Rs in Animal Research, which was established in 2016 with federal state funding, will be 
developed into an animal welfare centre at JLU.
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STUDIES AND TEACHING22
The attractiveness of JLU's programmes is reflected in consistently high demand and 
correspondingly large student cohorts (winter semester 2019  / 20: 27,927). Simulta-
neously and parallel to the quantitative expansion of programmes, JLU has also suc-
ceeded in systematically developing the quality of studies and teaching. The success 
of these efforts is expressed, among other things, in the regular evaluations of student 
satisfaction levels at JLU, which record steadily increasing values (> Fig. 9: Development 
of student satisfaction).
JLU offers a total of around 90 Bachelor's, Master's and state examination programmes 
across a broad range of subjects. JLU's portfolio also includes scientific further training 
courses. One of the University's focuses in the area of studies and teaching is teacher 
training. JLU has the broadest possible range of teacher training programmes in Hessen 
with nine of its eleven faculties involved in teacher training (> Fig. 10: Teacher training 
programmes). These are coordinated by the Teacher Training Centre (ZfL). Based on JLU's 
success in both rounds of the federal and Länder government's Teacher Training Quality 
Initiative, teacher training will also be supported by the Giessen Campaign for Teacher 
Training (GOL) until 2023. Funding has also been acquired in the same programme for 
the Giessen Campaign for Vocational Teacher Training (GOBeL), which will also be fun-
ded until 2023. A pilot scheme aimed at promoting mobility is being implemented in 
the degree programme in primary education with Islamic religion as the teaching subject 
through the project "International Mobility with Partners Abroad for Culturally Competent SECTION 3 
STUDIES AND TEACHING
Continued attractiveness of  
JLU's study programmes
Teacher training
STUDIES AND TEACHING | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN23
T eachers (IMPACCT)", which has been funded by the German Academic Exchange Service 
(DAAD) since 2019. This is considered a model project for the further internationalisation 
of teacher training at JLU.
Extracurricular and job-related skills and capabilities for students of all faculties are taught 
by the Centre for Competence Development (ZfbK). Numerous measures have been fun-
ded since 2012 by the federal and Länder government programme to improve study con-
ditions and quality in teaching (Quality Pact for Teaching), in which JLU was successful 
in both funding rounds with the project Success from the Start (EmE). Supported in both 
rounds of the Advancement Through Education programme, which is funded by the Ger -
man Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) and the European Social Fund, the colla-
borative project WM3 Further Training in Central Hessen run jointly by UMR and THM has 
sustainably strengthened the area of further scientific training.
The positive developments and competitive success of JLU (> Fig. 11: Success of third-
party funding for teaching) in the area of studies and teaching are based on three pillars: 
1) the continuous, demand-based and quality-oriented development of the range of pro-
grammes and study structures offered, 2) continual implementation of quality assurance 
measures and instruments in studies and teaching, 3) provision of the best possible tea-
ching infrastructures. JLU's development plans for the 2020s in studies and teaching are 
based on these three fields of action.0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
WS
06/07WS
07/08WS
08/09WS
09/10WS
10/11WS
11/12WS
12/13WS
13/14WS
14/15WS
15/16WS
16/17WS
17/18WS
18/19
Very satisfied Satisfied Indifferent Not very satisfied Not at all satisfied 
Fig. 9 Development of student satisfaction levels: The high quality of studies and teaching at JLU is also reflected in steadily increasing satis -
faction levels among students. The chart shows the results of the central student survey that has been conducted since 2006. 
24
FACUL -
TIES TEACHING SUBJECT L1
(Primary 
education) L2  
(Lower secon-  
dary education) L3
(Grammar 
schools) BBB 
(Vocational 
education & 
training) L5 
(Special needs 
education)
03Art 
Music 
Politics and Economics 
04Ancient Greek 
Ethics 
Protestant Theology
History 
Islamic Religion 
Catholic Theology 
Latin 
Philosophy 
05German 
English 
French 
Russian 
Spanish 
06 Sport 
07Geography 
Computer Science 
Mathematics 
Physics 
08Biology 
Chemistry 
09Agricultural Sciences
Nutritional Sciences and Home Economics 
11Courses in Special-Needs  
Subjects 
02/03/07 
08/09Work Theory (Arbeitslehre)
03/04 
07/08General Studies (Sachunterricht) 
Fig. 10 Teaching subjects: Nine of eleven faculties at JLU are involved in teacher training. This means JLU has the broadest possible range of 
teacher training programmes in Hessen and covers all school types. JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STUDIES AND TEACHING
25
STUDIES AND TEACHING | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
3.1 Priority development goal: Range of programmes and programme 
structures
3.1  JLU offers an attractive, demand-based and future-focused range of study 
programmes which it develops on an ongoing basis and according to demand.
Indicators: 1) The total student population will be stabilised to approx. 
25,000 students in the period 2026 to 2030. 2) The capacity utilisation 
of all teaching units will average at least 90% on a long-term basis. 3) 
Student satisfaction will be permanently maintained at its current high 
level (reference 2018: 80%).
3.1 RANGE OF PROGRAMMES AND PROGRAMME STRUCTURES
At the end of the term of the 2020.2 Development Plan, JLU carried out a university-wide 
review of the area of studies and teaching. The range of courses will be developed on the 
basis of this in the 2020s. The continuous development of programmes on offer focus on 
two key objectives.
Firstly, demand and capacity utilisation of study programmes is guaranteed through the 
provision of attractive, future-focused programmes: JLU will retain the broad spectrum of 
subjects offered by a "differentiated full university" (differenzierte Volluniversität) while 
continuing to develop its portfolio according to demand and societal requirements. While 
the 2010s were characterised by rapid increases in student numbers at JLU (to approxi-
mately 28,000), the 2020s will be about stabilising numbers at a level of approximately 
25,000 students, which is sustainable for JLU. Secondly, the quality of programmes and 
teaching will be continuously optimised according to requirements in terms of content, 
methods and structures. Specifically, this includes the infrastructural and methodological 
development of the digitalisation of studies and teaching, for example, with the expansion 
of innovative forms of teaching with online and blended learning formats.FUNDING 
BODY PROJECT NAME 
Federal and 
Länder   
governments Project Success from the Start 2020: Specific advice – individual support – integrated teaching (EmE 2020) 
Giessen Campaign for Vocational Teacher Training (GOBeL) 
Giessen Campaign for Teacher Training (GOL) 
DAAD
GERMAN ACADEMIC 
EXCHANGE SERVICEInternational Mobility with Partners Abroad for Culturally Competent Teachers (IMPACCT) 
LAND
HESSEN"Global Health" curriculum awarded the Hessian University Prize for Excellence in Teaching 
Digital Learning and Teaching in Hessen (DigLL)
Fig. 11 Third-party funding for teaching: Large-scale externally-funded projects strengthen studies and teaching at JLU. The overview shows 
teaching-related external funding of significance to the University as of 1 January 2020. 
Review of studies 
and teaching
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STUDIES AND TEACHING26
The results of the Studies and Teaching review process will provide guidance for the further 
development of study programmes in the 2020s. In 2025, implementation will be reviewed 
and, if necessary, objectives and measures will be updated. The results of the review are 
therefore a point of reference for the ongoing development and demand-oriented optimi-
sation of study programmes. New programmes are planned in such areas as data science, 
sustainable resources and global health, alongside a programme on inequality to be taught 
in Spanish. At the overall university level, there will be a focus on the following fields of 
action to develop studies and teaching:
1) The range and quality of undergraduate degree courses will be developed with a pro-
spective approach to guarantee capacity utilisation and sustainable demand for the pro-
grammes. Specifically, the introductory phase of programmes will be optimally organised 
and geared towards the needs of an increasingly heterogeneous student body. In pilot 
projects, for example, school children will be offered more opportunities to study, particu-
larly in the natural sciences, and subject-based promotional activities in local schools will 
be intensified. In the humanities, preliminary courses will be developed to help applicants 
choose programmes in this group of subjects and to address heterogeneous conditions 
and needs, thus improving subsequent academic success of students. Based on these 
projects, a model will later be developed for a digitally supported general studies course 
(Studium Generale) in the humanities, which may be extended to include other subject 
groups if positively evaluated.
2) JLU will raise the research-oriented profile of its programmes. Specifically, the research 
priorities of focus areas and areas of potential (> Section 2.1) will be linked even more clo-
sely with teaching courses and thus made more visible to students both present and future. 
As envisaged by the Liebig Concept (> Section 1), appropriate science track pathways and 
other research-oriented Master's programmes will be developed.
3) JLU's focus on teacher training will address the requirements of the future using acquired 
funds and be flanked by efforts to further consolidate empirical educational research. On the 
basis of the amendment of the Teacher Training Act of Hessen and building on the outcome 
of the Giessen Campaign for Teacher Training, the structure of teacher training courses will 
be modernised and curricula adapted.
4) Digitalisation will be consistently considered and implemented in the field of studies and tea-
ching both as a subject and as a method. On the one hand, it means teaching subject-specific 
and interdisciplinary skills and competences that are needed for life and work in an increasingly 
digital world, on the other, it means using digital teaching forms and formats as didactical 
methods. To cultivate digital skills, an interdisciplinary course known as Generale Digitale aimed 
at all students will be developed, initially as an extracurricular, supplementary option. After it 
has been tested and evaluated, the programme will be included in the curricula and, depen-
ding on financial conditions, developed in the long term.As regards methods, digital teaching 
formats and services will be developed and expanded. This is also supported by the federal 
state-funded joint project Digitally Supported Learning and Teaching in Hessen (DigLL). To 
increase an international approach in studies and teaching according to JLU's Internationalisa-
tion Strategy (> Section 5.3), the implementation of fully digital study programmes, especially 
for international students, will be reviewed and tested in a pilot study. The special challenges 
posed by the increasing digitalisation of school education will be addressed as a separate focus 
(> Section 5.4).
5) Within the statutory framework, JLU will also continue to develop and offer cost-cover -
ing further training programmes in future in areas in which it has a nationally or internati-
onally visible profile and where there is corresponding demand.Research-oriented teaching
Teacher training
Digitalisation of studies
 and teaching 
Further training programmesIntroductory phase and 
Studium Generale
STUDIES AND TEACHING | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN27
6) Alongside the development of programmes and programme structures, the visibility of 
JLU's programme portfolio will also be increased in the coming years. Student recruitment 
measures will be further optimised according to an overall concept and centrally coordinated 
in agreement with the Executive Board, the faculties and responsible administrative units. 
International student recruitment will also be developed in future, and to do so use will be 
made of international education fairs. JLU's alumni work will be strategically strengthened 
by linking the Alumni Service more closely with student recruitment activities.
3.2 QUALITY ASSURANCE IN STUDIES AND TEACHING
JLU has a well-established range of measures and instruments to maintain quality levels in 
studies and teaching. Specifically, these include the regular external accreditation of all of 
the University's study programmes, the systematic evaluation of courses, and the annual 
student survey by the Service Centre for the Evaluation of Teaching Activities and the Com-
petence Team for Studies and Teaching, in which the development, implementation and 
coordination of quality assurance measures are regularly discussed by the Executive Board 
and faculties.
Quality assurance instruments and processes in the area of studies and teaching will be 
more strongly networked, integrated and coordinated in a comprehensive quality manage-
ment system with defined quality cycles. Quality management for studies and teaching is 
part of the University's overall quality management system (> Section 6.1), into which it 
is integrated via appropriate interfaces. The structures and processes are presented in a 
quality handbook Studies and Teaching. The quality management system is supported by 
commission on courses of study which recommend ways to develop existing study pro-
grammes based on programme-specific data in partnership with lecturers, students and 
administration.
The further development of quality management measures for studies and teaching also 
forms the basis for the examination of alternatives to the accreditation of individual study 
programmes. In this connection, a preliminary project is being implemented in 2020 to exa-
mine and assess the possibility of introducing system accreditation at JLU. On the basis of 
this, system accreditation may be prepared and implemented by 2025.
3.2 Priority development goal: Quality assurance in studies and  
teaching
3.2  JLU has established a comprehensive quality management system for 
the area of studies and teaching. 
Indicators: 1) By the end of 2021, a quality cycle for the ongoing 
development of study programmes with the participation of academic 
and administrative governing bodies will be implemented as part of 
the University's overall quality management system. 2) To support this 
process, commissions on courses of study for all subject groups will be 
set up by the end of 2021.Student recruitment and alumni work
Measures and instruments for  
quality assurance
Development of an integrated quality 
management system
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STUDIES AND TEACHING28
The quality of teaching at JLU is also supported by the programmes offered by the Institute 
for Didactics of Higher Education, which have been expanded in recent years as a result 
of various funding schemes such as the Early-Career Promotion Pact, the Quality Pact for 
Teaching and the joint project Digitally Supported Learning and Teaching in Hessen (DigLL), 
which is financed with federal state funds. Backed by the Central Hessen Network for Higher 
Education Didactics (HdM), which is supported jointly by Marburg University and TH Mit -
telhessen University of Applied Sciences (THM), the Institute for Higher Education Didactics 
offers JLU lecturers extensive further training opportunities in didactics. These programmes 
will be developed for specific target groups on the basis of an overall evaluation by 2022. 
There will be a special focus on higher education didactic programmes for professors. Target 
group-specific and demand-oriented development will promote the more widespread use of 
programmes.
3.3 TEACHING INFRASTRUCTURES
Infrastructures for studies and teaching include the structural foundations for seminar and 
teaching rooms, laboratories and other training settings, such as clinical facilities for vete-
rinary and human medicine (> Section 6.2). Teaching infrastructure is also understood to 
be teaching and campus information systems, the Central Student Advisory Service, faculty 
examinations offices as well as the interdisciplinary centres for studies and teaching and 
digital and media support services that conduct and innovatively develop the range of 
didactic methods in university teaching.
JLU is an attendance-based university. To support innovative curricula and formats, however, 
digitally taught courses for students have also been developed in recent years and the area of 
digitally recorded lectures has been expanded. The range of electronic self-assessment systems 
for prospective students has been developed, also as part of the BMBF-funded Success from 
the Start (EmE) initiative and the Giessen Campaign for Teacher Training (GOL). The teaching 
and campus information systems deployed at JLU (specifically StudIP, FlexNow) have been 
continually developed, modernised and adapted to current needs in recent years. To restruc-
ture the organisation and processes of the examinations offices, an audit and reorganisation 
procedure was initiated in 2018. An external evaluation of the reformed examination adminis-
tration procedure is due in 2025.
As part of ongoing measures to develop teaching infrastructures, JLU will concentrate on 
increasing the digitalisation of teaching and study infrastructures in coming years. For 
example, the strategic focus "Digital Campus" pursues the goal of fully digitalising Study 
Administration and examination administration procedures by 2025, paying particular 
attention to compliance with data protection and data security standards. The provision of 
electronic documents for students will also be systematically increased.
In the federal state-funded joint project Digitally Supported Learning and Teaching in 
Hessen (DigLL), JLU in cooperation with the other universities in Hessen will apply for a 
second funding phase starting in 2021 to establish a platform for digital teaching content 
for the whole of Hessen.
The structure, organisation and processes of the Central Student Advisory Service (ZSB) 
will undergo an audit and be developed on the basis of this audit. In particular, new, state-
of-the-art digital teaching formats will be used to address the needs and communication 
behaviours of the target group. On the one hand, the services will be adapted to the future 
Fig. 12 Auditorium building: Following reno -
vation and extension work, the medical lec -
ture hall building now unites previously sepa -
rate teaching sites and offers ideal studies 
and teaching infrastructure together with the 
surrounding University Hospital buildings. Didactics of 
higher education
Strategic focus 
"Digital Campus"
Central Student Advisory Service
STUDIES AND TEACHING | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN29
3.3 Priority development goal: Teaching infrastructures
3.3  JLU's teaching and study infrastructures are optimally and sustainably 
organised.
Indicators: 1) By 2025, all examination administration processes 
will be fully digitalised and all documents for students (certificates 
of achievement, transcripts of records) will be issued in electronic 
form. 2) The reorganised Study Administration will be externally 
and positively evaluated in 2025.advisory requirements of students, on the other, study programme development, student 
advisory services and student recruitment at home and abroad will be coordinated even 
more closely.
JLU's two interdisciplinary centres for studies and teaching, the Centre for Competence 
Development (ZfbK) and the legally required Teacher Training Centre (ZfL) will be continued 
and developed further. These measures will be based on the external evaluation of the ZfbK in 
2018 and the internal analysis of the ZfL, which began in 2019 on the basis of a corresponding 
self-evaluation report.
The profile of the Centre for Competence Development Centre will be aligned more strongly 
to specific target groups and associated with JLU's specific academic expertise on the basis 
of the external evaluation carried out in 2018 / 19. This includes, in particular, the focus on 
the three pillars (language, key competencies, career orientation), which address the target 
group of students. ZfbK's academic profile will also be raised in future with the establishment 
of a scientific board of directors. Courses already developed in cooperation with individual 
faculties (e.g. co-teaching) will be further developed in this context and in consultation with 
the faculties, and they will form part of the ZfbK's academically oriented teaching portfolio.
The Teacher Training Centre will continue to develop teacher training programmes until 2022 
on the basis of planned legislative reforms and, in doing so, optimise the structures and orga-
nisation of internships and strengthen the concept of school-based study. Another focus will 
be the training of student teachers and teaching staff in media didactics.Interdisciplinary centres for 
studies and teaching
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | TRANSFER30
JLU considers the transfer of scientific findings to society, business and politics to be its 
third key performance dimension ("third mission") alongside research and teaching. As the 
region's biggest scientific and educational institute, JLU is conscious of its special social 
significance for the city and region. It regards the region according to the German Council 
of Science and Humanities (2018) as an opportunity and a responsibility and systemati-
cally promotes cooperation and knowledge-sharing activities with business, politics and 
wider society in the region.
JLU's understanding of transfer is based on the three fields of action defined by the German 
Council of Science and Humanities (2016): communicate, advise and apply / utilise. It covers a 
wide range of activities in all groups of subjects at JLU which – on the basis of scientific rese-
arch and discoveries – help intensify dialogue with business, society and politics to collectively 
address social challenges and pave the way for social and technical innovations. JLU conse-
quently designs transfer activities in the broadest sense to include both traditional knowledge 
and technology transfer (KTT) in terms of the economic and technological use of research 
results, and the communication of research results and advising of social and political actors as 
third mission activities (> Fig. 13: Transfer dimensions).
JLU's flagship projects in the area of transfer include the Binational Excellence Centre 
German-Colombian Peace Institute CAPAZ, which is coordinated by JLU and funded by 
the German Foreign Office through DAAD to promote the Colombian peace process, Ger -
many's first Refugee Law Clinic that offers refugees free advice on asylum and residence 
law issues, and the development of a novel drug for the treatment of pulmonary hyper -
tension, which was awarded the German Federal President's Future Prize. Such transfer 
focuses and the communication of scientific knowledge across the entire range of subjects 
are complemented by the systematic and ongoing communication of research results to 
society as well as numerous public event formats organised by the University in the city 
and region.SECTION 4
TRANSFER
JLU’s understanding of transfer:  
communicate, advise, apply
TRANSFER | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN31
The sperm whale skeleton on display at the Hermann Hoffmann Academy since 2019 was 
prepared by JLU researchers together with students and reflects the constant transfer 
and dialogue activities between science and the general public, for example, on the res -
ponsible use of nature and its resources or the impact of environmental influences. 
COMMUNICATING ADVISING APPLYING / UTILISING
As part of the Justus Children's 
University, JLU researchers such as 
physicist Prof. Claudia von Auf-
schnaiter offer young schoolchild-
ren the opportunity to experience 
science first hand. Prof. Dr Stefan Peters, Professor of 
Peace Research at JLU and Director 
of the German-Colombian Peace Ins-
titute (Instituto CAPAZ) talks to Ger -
man Federal President Frank-Walter 
Steinmeier and State Minister for 
International Cultural Policy Michelle 
Müntefering. The results of research carried out in 
Giessen are used in many different 
areas; for example, JLU's Institute of 
Physical Chemistry studies battery 
components to better understand 
their function and the degradation 
mechanisms in lithium batteries. 
Fig. 13 Transfer dimensions: JLU has a broad range of transfer activities focusing on the three tasks of communicating, advising and 
applying  / utilising. 
To systematically advance and develop its many, often locally based knowledge-sharing acti-
vities, JLU has developed a university-wide transfer strategy. Development planning for the 
years ahead will follow the objectives laid down in this strategy document and are based, in 
particular, on JLU's (top-level) research profile (> Section 2.1.) as well as overriding topics that 
will be socially relevant for the future.Transfer Strategy of JLU
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | TRANSFER32
4.1 COMMUNICATE AND ADVISE
JLU has a broad spectrum of third mission activities which focus on the transfer tasks of 
communicating and advising. These include high-profile formats such as the Justus Univer -
sity for Children, the President's lecture series on current social topics, special events and 
museum projects as well as various initiatives proposed by the faculties and student body 
that impact the city of Giessen and the Central Hessen region. Numerous JLU researchers 
are also expert members of political advisory bodies.
In the 2020s, JLU intends to systematically strengthen (scientific) communication to raise 
public awareness of scientific findings and highlight the importance and relevance of 
science-led discussions for society and politics. To do so, JLU will develop a strategic 
communications concept by 2023 that will address three aspects of communication in 
particular: 1) Scientific communication: Dialogue with society and politics is supported on 
the university level by the Press Office, PR and Marketing in the Office of the President 
and Vice-Presidents and already has well-established formats and channels. To promote 
scientific communication across all levels of the University, JLU will also develop and 
establish new, internal support and training programmes in the coming years to help rese-
archers enhance their communication skills and develop their own customised formats in 
(digital) scientific communication. 2) Digital communication: Given the changing condi-
tions in social communication, the University must have an optimised digital presence as 
well as traditional PR activities, and use digital communication and formats professionally 
and according to specific target groups. In the next few years, appropriate activities will 
be systematically expanded and innovative formats tested. 3) Student recruitment: In 
light of predicted student population developments in the 2020s and with the aim of 
keeping student numbers at JLU at a stable level in the long term (> Section 3.1), JLU's 
PR concept will also address the development, testing and implementation of customised 
recruitment measures. 
JLU will continue to assume social responsibility in the city and region in future and act as a 
catalyst for social developments, debates and interaction through innovative event formats, 
platforms and forums. This will include 1) the consistent use and further development of the 
University and City InfoCenter, run jointly with the THM and city of Giessen, which offers 
information and services to citizens, local and international visitors as well as students and 
future students, 2) the continuation and promotion of cooperation with university-external 
4.1 Priority development goal: Communicate and advise
4.1  As the region's biggest scientific and educational institute, JLU cons-
ciously assumes responsibility for promoting dialogue between science 
and society.
Indicators: 1) By 2023, JLU will have a strategic communications 
concept that addresses issues relating to scientific communication 
(especially digital) and student recruitment. 2) In partnership 
with the city of Giessen and other university-external stakehol-
ders, JLU will offer new, innovative events and formats for the 
general public.Strategic communications concept
TRANSFER | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN33
4.2 Priority development goal: Apply and utilise 
4.2  JLU promotes the transfer of knowledge and technology in the region 
and therefore contributes to its economic development.
Indicators: 1) The number of patent applications filed by and gran-
ted to JLU will increase 30% by 2025 (reference 2019: 15 patent 
applications, 6 patents granted). 2) The Entrepreneurship Cluster 
of Central Hessen (ECM) will be positively rated in an external 
review in 2023.partners such as the Liebig Museum, the Mathematikum and the Giessen University Associ-
ation, which offer an attractive range of activities to communicate, demonstrate and discuss 
scientific findings, and 3) transfer incentives, including those in non-scientific areas, such as 
the support of urban mobility and sustainability goals through the JLU Bike Sharing Scheme.
4.2 APPLY AND UTILISE
To apply and utilise scientific findings (the third transfer task according to the German 
Council of Science and Humanities), JLU's Transfer Strategy includes the fields of action: 
innovation and cooperation management, patent exploitation and business start-up sup-
port. In the next few years, JLU will continue to expand this transfer task and, in conjun-
ction with the research-strong focus areas and areas of potential (> Section 2.1), identify 
and explore new areas of application and utilisation, for example in the form of clinical 
studies, patent applications or commissioned research projects. Here, too, a special focus 
lies on cooperation with university-external partners in the region.
Cooperation with industry and practice partners is key to consolidating the applicati-
on-based transfer of knowledge and technology. To systematically expand such contacts 
and networks in the region and beyond in the next few years, JLU will use the format of 
the Joint University Forum, which was designed as part of the Liebig Concept (> Section 
1) and is funded by the Initiative for Excellence to strengthen transfer collaborations with 
university and university-external partners and to make the partners' respective contacts 
with industry and other relevant actors mutually beneficial.
Apart from cooperations with established companies, JLU's knowledge and technology 
transfer activities will also contribute towards the region's economic development through 
new spin-offs. Since 2009, JLU's business start-up centre – the Entrepreneurship Cluster 
of Central Hessen (ECM) – has offered support and advice to JLU students, employees and 
graduates who are interested in setting up their own business and acts as a multiplier in the 
regional economy. From 2020, this will be supported for four years by funds from an EXIST 
grant from the Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy (BMWi) acquired jointly with 
UMR and THM. JLU will continue to strengthen and expand its support of business start-up  
initiatives on this basis in the coming years. The structures and services of the ECM will be 
reviewed in an external evaluation by 2023 and prospects for continuity tested. JLU will Patent applications
Cooperation management
Business start-up support
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | TRANSFER34
strengthen its start-up culture by profiling previous achievements and best practices and 
by attracting and utilising experienced multipliers.
The service centre for custom research and service projects will continue to offer comprehen-
sive support for the acquisition and implementation of projects financed entirely with external 
funding in all process stages – from initiation to conclusion – and thus support and assist 
researchers with commissioned research activities.
4.3 TRANSFER INFRASTRUCTURES
Established in 1996, TransMIT society for technology transfer mbH, a transfer company 
supported by the three universities in Central Hessen, cooperative and savings banks and 
Giessen-Friedberg Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is committed to marketing innova-
tive technologies and services from science and research. JLU also operates infrastructures in 
the metropolitan region of Frankfurt / Rhine-Main through participations in the "house of" 
concept, for example in the House of Logistics and Mobility (HOLM) and House of Pharma &  
Healthcare, which serve specifically to promote transfer and cooperation with industry. 
Transfer within the city, region and society as a whole is supported at JLU by the University's 
own, established and effective knowledge-sharing infrastructures. Mention should be made 
of the Hermann-Hoffmann Academy for young scholars and researchers, amongst others.
Development planning for the next few years envisage the professionalisation of transfer 
infrastructures in terms of two dimensions: 1) Based on an evaluation of the processes and 
structures of cooperation with TransMIT GmbH, a future strategy "Patent and utilise" will 
be drawn up to promote the application and exploitation of research results in cooperation 
with TransMIT GmbH and, in particular, to increase the efficiency of patent exploitation. 
Simultaneously, transparent, comprehensible framework conditions for all stakeholders 
will be strengthened. 2) Within JLU, the interfaces and processes between the organisa-
tional units that support transfer will be further expanded and optimised (Staff Divisions 
Knowledge and Technology Transfer, Teaching and Research, Office of the President and 
Vice-Presidents, ECM), as specified in the Transfer Strategy.
4.3 Priority development goal: Transfer infrastructures
4.3 JLU has professionalised transfer infrastructures.
Indicator: A "patent and utilise" concept will be available for the 
cooperation with TransMIT GmbH by 2022.Transfer institutions
Strategy for the future  
"Patent and utilise"
TRANSFER | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN35
Fig. 14 Botanical Garden: JLU's Botani -
cal Garden is used not just for teaching 
and research purposes. As part of the 
University's transfer infrastructure, it 
also teaches members of the public more 
about such topics as species protection 
and climate change through guided tours 
and special events. 
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS36
SECTION 5
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL 
DIMENSIONS
Apart from developing the key performance dimensions of research, teaching and transfer, JLU 
has defined goals and measures for five additional strategic fields of action that support these 
key performance dimensions and are of particular importance to the overall profile of the Uni-
versity. JLU focuses on the following fields of action that are strategic cross-sectional dimen-
sions in this sense: 1) gender equality, equal opportunities and diversity, 2) human resources 
development, 3) internationalisation, 4) digitalisation, 5) sustainability.
In the past few years, JLU has formulated and approved appropriate strategic concepts for 
the first three areas in consultation with the University as a whole and with the participation 
of all central actors and governing bodies (> Fig. 15: Strategy papers). Development plan-
ning in these areas is based on these strategy documents. The cross-sectional dimensions of 
digitalisation and sustainability will be strategically developed in the next few years, building 
on predefined individual goals and existing measures. Appropriate concept papers specifying 
prioritisations in the individual performance dimensions will be drawn up.Definition of strategic 
cross-sectional dimensions
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN37
Gender Equality Concept 2.0 at Justus Liebig University Giessen (2017-2023) 
Anti-discrimination and equal opportunities, advancement of women and family-friendliness 
Digitalisation Strategy (under development)
Sustainability Strategy (under development)Human Resource Development Concept 
Qualify – Inspire – Enable 
Internationalisation Strategy of JLU. Progress Through Internationalisation.
JLU International 2016
 
–
 
2026.OBJECTIVE 
OBJECTIVE 
OBJECTIVE 
OBJECTIVE 
OBJECTIVE Systematic implementation of anti-discrimination, equal opportunities, 
advancement of women and family-friendliness 
Training, support and advancement of all groups of academic, administrative and technical staff, 
with a special focus on young researchers 
Internationalisation in all areas of research and teaching and targeted support of top-level research 
and intercultural exchange. 
Systematic use of digitalisation as a method and subject in all performance dimensions as well as 
reinforcement of the University's IT governance and security. 
Promotion of individual and institutional sustainable action throughout the University, especially in 
the context of sustainability priorities in research, teaching, transfer and administration.GENDER EQUALITY DIGITALISATION SUSTAINABILITYHUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENTINTERNATIONALISATIONRESEARCH TEACHING TRANSFER 
www.uni-giessen.de/gleichstellungskonzept
www.uni-giessen.de/personalentwicklungskonzept
www.uni-giessen.de/internationalisierungsstrategie
Fig. 15 Strategy documents: JLU has drawn up its own strategic concepts for each of the five cross-sectional dimensions. These underpin and 
complement the major strategic approaches as outlined in the University Development Plan JLU 2030. 
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS38
5.1 GENDER EQUALITY, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY
The "Gender Equality Concept 2.0 at Justus Liebig University Giessen 2017-2023. Anti-di-
scrimination, equal opportunities, advancement of women and family-friendliness" adopted 
by the Senate and Executive Board formulates JLU's gender equality strategy and defines key 
goals and measures for this area. It references and is based upon the equality policy practiced 
by JLU over the years, the success of which has been repeatedly endorsed by external evalua-
tions and audits. For example, DFG rates JLU in its "top group 4" in terms of "research-orien-
ted standards on gender equality". JLU also scored highly in the CEWS University Ranking on 
Gender Equality in 2017 in terms of increasing the number of female professors. JLU has been 
awarded the "family-friendly university audit" certificate by berufundfamilie Service GmbH 
which belongs to the non-profit Hertie Foundation since 2005, and this has been confirmed 
since then by regular re-audits. The University was honoured with the permanent certificate in 
2018. Committed to promoting gender equality, equal opportunities, diversity and family-fri-
endliness throughout the University, JLU consciously assumes social responsibility in this field 
of activity. Simultaneously, in the interests of the institute itself, the gender equality policy 
strategically aims to create the best possible conditions to be able to attract and retain on a 
long-term basis outstanding (early-career) female researchers and thus strengthen research, 
teaching and transfer at JLU.
Supported by the successful acquisition of funding in all three bidding rounds of the Bund-Län-
der Programme for Women Professors and the Programme for the Promotion of Young Resear -
chers, JLU has been able to substantially strengthen structures, instruments and measures to 
promote gender equality, equal opportunities and family-friendliness in recent years. Efforts 
have included the establishment of a Staff Division Equal Opportunities Office which reports 
directly to the President and coordinates and implements gender equality measures throug-
hout the University.
5.1 Priority development goal: Gender equality, equal opportunities 
and diversity
5.1  JLU has developed a reputation as an exemplary university in the 
field of gender equality.
Indicators: 1) JLU will increase the number of women professors  
to 32.5% by 2025 and to 35% by 2030 (long-term goal: equal  
participation). 2. JLU will successfully participate in national  
competitions and rankings in the area of gender equality and  
equal opportunities (research-oriented gender equality standards, 
etc.). 3) There will be no significant differences between the  
average performance-based earnings of female and male  
professors at JLU. 
Of Germany's "comprehensive universities", JLU records the highest number of female stu-
dents in the country (2018: 62%). In terms of increasing the number of women among acade-
mic staff, the CEWS University Ranking on Gender Equality has placed JLU among the top uni -Success of JLU's gender 
equality policy
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN39
Proportion of women professors at JLU Proportion of women professors at universities in Germany (source: German Federal Statistical Office)
Fig. 16 Development of women in professorships: The number of women professors at JLU has increased steadily in recent years and is 
well above the national average.versities since 2007. The proportion of women in this group was 51.3% in 2017 (CEWS, 
2019). The proportion of women professors increased by almost 10% to 30.15% between 
2011 and 2019, which means JLU is significantly above the national average (2018: 
24.71%) (> Fig. 16: Development of proportion of women).
The development of the strategic cross-sectional dimension of gender equality, equal 
opportunities and diversity is based on the Gender Equality Concept 2.0 at Justus Liebig 
University Giessen 2017-2023. The Gender Equality Concept defines specific goals and 
measures for various fields of action. These include anti-discrimination, family-friend-
liness, the advancement of women, gender research and the subject of gender in teaching. 
The objective of the University as a whole is to gain a reputation as an exemplary univer -
sity for gender equality policies.
The Gender Equality Concept is implemented in close alignment with the University's 
other management tools. Specifically, these include internal target agreements between 
the Executive Board and the faculties, which have defined individual gender equality tar -
gets for all faculties since 2017 but which also take into account subject-specific aspects. 
Appropriate targets will also be agreed and implemented with the faculties on the basis of 
the University's Gender Equality Concept for the 2022-2025 period.
Implementation of the objectives and measures is supported by an Equality Fund, which 
was set up with JLU's own resources as part of the Early-Career Promotion Pact funding, 
and is endowed with € 500,000 every calendar year. This Fund will be used to implement Gender Equality Concept
Fund for gender equality 
and family-friendliness
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 201930 %
28 %
26 %
24 %
22 %
20 %
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS40
the following measures in the coming years: expansion of short-term and transitional care 
services as well as babysitter allowances, provision of workplaces in rooms for parents and children, support staff fund for researchers with children. Additional measures are also planned in the area of anti-discrimination, which has been included in the Gender Equa-lity Concept 2.0 as an independent field of action with a separate raft of measures since 2017. To develop an anti-discrimination directive, a complaints office will be set up within JLU's central administration to provide systematic legal support in cases of discrimination against members of the University and thus initiate and implement the official complaints procedure defined in the anti-discrimination directive.
The field of gender studies at JLU is currently being reorganised on the basis of the 
evaluation of JLU's Gender Studies position. The aim is to establish interdisciplinary and cross-faculty links and create synergies between gender-related issues in research and teaching.
Following a fundamental evaluation of the goals and measures implemented by 2023 
according to the Gender Equality Concept 2.0, a revised strategic concept for gender 
STAFF CATEGORIES FOCUS CLASSIFICATION BUDGET AND SUPER- 
VISORY RESPONSIBILITY 
Teaching Research Professor- 
ship Institute 
Scientific staff member 
with the aim of further  
academic qualification 
Lecturer for specific purposes  
with the aim of further academic qualification 
Research group leader 
Tenured scientists with continuous functions in research and teaching (  )
Lecturer with continuous functions in teaching (  )
Research group leader with cont -
inuous functions in research and support of early-career researchers Academic qualification
 positionAcademic permanent positions or
Fig. 17 Staff categories: By establishing new categories of postdoctoral staff, JLU creates transparent and plannable career paths for young 
researchers alongside professorships. Repositioning of 
Gender Studies post
Evaluation and revision  
of Gender Equality Concept
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN41
5.2 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
The field of human resources development has been sustainably strengthened and expan-
ded in recent years, as envisaged in the University Development Plan JLU 2020.2. With the 
“Human Resource Development Concept: Qualify – Inspire – Enable", which was adopted 
by all governing bodies in 2017, JLU has set out strategic guidelines for the development 
of this field of activity in the coming years. Supported by funds from the Early-Career 
Promotion Pact and JLU's own resources, the Human Resources Development division was 
developed in the Human Resources Department on this basis and JLU's internal training 
and further training programmes were significantly developed in terms of volume, quality 
and range. Target group-specific offers are available for all employee groups.
Human resource development activities focus, in particular, on support programmes for 
young researchers. The Postdoc Career and Mentoring Office (PCMO) was set up for this 
purpose under the auspices of the Human Resources Development division and in coope-
ration with JLU's three graduate centres (> Section 2.2). The systematic implementation 
of tenure-track professorships at JLU and establishment of new academic staff categories 
alongside professorships (> Fig. 17: Categories for staff) have also meant that new, trans-
parent and more plannable career pathways for junior academics have been created on 
the structural level.
To enhance the competencies of employees working or wishing to work in scientific manage-
ment, JLU has developed and implemented its own Certification Programme Scientific 
Management, as provided for in its Early-Career Promotion Pact application. The aim of 
this programme is to prepare young researchers for fields of work at the interface between 
science and administration.
5.2 Priority development goal: Human resources development
5.2  JLU has a comprehensive and professional human resource 
development system with target group-specific instruments and 
measures for all groups of employees.
Indicator: The goals and measures defined in the Human Resource 
Development Concept and Early-Career Promotion Pact will be 
implemented as planned and according to schedule.Human Resources 
Development Concept
Early-career researchers
Scientific managementequality, equal opportunities and diversity will be approv ed and prepared by the Univer -
sity during the term of this Development Plan for the years from 2024.
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS42
Further development of the field of activity human resources development pursues the stra-
tegies outlined above and specified in the Human Resource Development Concept with clear 
sub-objectives, measures and milestones and, in particular, implements the targets formulated 
in the Early-Career Promotion Pact (> above and Section 2.2). Existing structures (especially 
the services of the Human Resources Development division and the PCMO) will be consolida-
ted. It is the goal of the University to provide a comprehensive, professional human resource 
development system on the basis of this in the long term. An evaluation of the implementa-
tion and success of employment group-specific programmes is planned in 2025 based on the 
milestone plans laid down in the current Human Resource Development Concept. The goals 
and measures of human resources development will be adapted to requirements and a revi-
sed version of the Human Resource Development Concept will be drawn up with appropriate 
implementation plans for the following years.
Cross-university cooperation in the area of human resources development will also be intensified 
in future. Pilot projects on management development are planned, for example, in the context of 
the Research Campus of Central Hessen (FCMH). Cross-university career paths will be considered 
more systematically in human resources development and job rotation opportunities tested with 
partner universities.
The programmes of the Institute for Didactics of Higher Education will be developed 
further (> Section 3.3) but will remain closely linked to the programmes of human resour -
ces development so that researchers at JLU can be offered optimally coordinated further 
training opportunities. Based on the established Central Hessen Network for Higher 
Education Didactics (HDM), cooperation with partners in Central Hessen will also be used 
in this context.
5.3 INTERNATIONALISATION
The internationalisation of studies, teaching and research (accompanied by university admi-
nistration) has been one of JLU's strategic focuses for many years. In the Internationalisation 
Strategy "Progress Through Internationalisation. JLU International 2016-2026", which was 
adopted in 2016 with the support of all central governing bodies, JLU defined the overriding 
goals for this area of action: 1) support of outstanding achievements in research and teaching 
through internationalisation, and 2) promotion of intercultural exchange and international 
understanding. Based on the two tasks of achieving "internationalisation on a broad base" 
and "internationalisation at the top", the strategy also defines qualitative and quantitative 
sub-goals and appropriate measures for individual areas of internationalisation. These include, 
for example, an increase in mobility in Bachelor's, Master's and state examination programmes 
across all disciplines, an increase in the number of international study programmes at JLU 
and a continual growth in the international student intake. These goals and measures have 
been implemented since 2016 as part of an implementation plan coordinated throughout the 
University. 
Particular attention is paid to seven strategic partner regions throughout the world, with which 
JLU cooperates especially intensively (> Fig. 18: Networks). To rigorously and sustainably 
intensify cooperation with strategic partner regions, JLU established three JLU Information 
Points at partner universities in Australia, Colombia and Poland in 2019. These guarantee 
JLU's long-term local presence and help strengthen and expand existing cooperations and 
international student recruitment. Human resource development system 
for all groups of employees
Evaluation and revision of Human 
Resource Development Concept
Cross-university cooperation
Internationalisation Strategy
Strategic partner regions and 
 JLU Information Points
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN43
PARTNER REGION EUROPE  
(Focus on eastern Europe, including Central Asia) 
with the JLU Information Point Poland at the
PARTNER REGION CHINA 
(under development)PARTNER REGION
WISCONSIN
 
/
 
USA
PARTNER REGION  
SOUTH ASIA (under development) )
PARTNER REGION KOLUMBIEN  
with the JLU Information Point Colombia at the PARTNER REGION  
with the JLU Information Point Australia atPARTNER REGION 
SOUTHERN AFRICA 
Fig. 18 Network: JLU's network of international partners focuses on seven strategic partner regions. As external representations of JLU, the 
three JLU Information Points in Australia, Colombia and Poland strengthen special collaborative relations with the respective partner region. 
Extensive funding has been acquired in recent years to implement the subgoals in the 
Internationalisation Strategy. As part of funding programmes offered by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), three flagship projects in international cooperation are currently being supported. On the one hand, JLU is consortium and project director of the Binational Excellence Centre for Marine Science (CEMarin) and the German-Co-lombian Peace Institute (Instituto CAPAZ), which were established with Colombian partner universities, on the other, JLU is being supported in the programme "exceed – Higher Education Excellence in Development Cooperation" to set up a new excel-lence centre in development cooperation. Through DAAD's "Lehramt.International" pro-gramme, a pilot scheme (IMPACCT > Section 3) is currently being implemented with theProject FundingInternationalisation
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS44
aim of internationalising the teaching profession. JLU was also able to raise significant 
funds through the systematic use of other funding programmes offered by DAAD, the 
EU and the federal state of Hessen (including PROMOS, ISAP, Erasmus, Study Structure 
Programme of the State of Hessen) to promote the mobility of students and researchers 
on a broad basis.  
The development of internationalisation measures as a cross-sectional dimension throug-
hout the University pursues the tasks and subgoals defined in the Internationalisation 
Strategy and the measures and milestones specified in the implementation plan. JLU's 
role as an internationally visible university of choice that attracts international resear -
chers and students will be strengthened in the long term as a result. Prioritised fields of 
action therefore include international research networking, among other things through 
additional transnational education and collaborative research projects with a strong reach. 
In future, the cooperative potential of JLU and Marburg University will be systematically 
used to strengthen networks with strong research partners abroad. Strategic networks 
with international partners will be also be extended through the operation and use of JLU 
Information Points.
Study programmes will be internationalised through the development of courses that 
will be taught in foreign languages, a focus on internationalisation in teacher training 
programmes, pilot testing of new digital study formats specifically for international stu-
dents (> Section 3.1) and the development of international study programmes (inclu-
ding the double Master's degree programme Intercultural Communication and Business, 
the internationally visible Master's programme German as a Foreign Language and the 
internationally oriented programme Global Health). International student recruitment 
will continue to be developed and expanded in accordance with University's overall mar -
keting activities.
It is hoped that these measures will sustainably strengthen the internationalisation of 
research and teaching at JLU and increase the proportion of international students to 
14%. During the term of the University Development Plan JLU 2030, a revised internati-
onalisation strategy for the period 2026-2036 will be drafted on the basis of an evaluation 
of the implementation status of internationalisation measures achieved by 2026.
5.3 Priority development goal: Internationalisation
5.3  JLU is an internationally visible university of choice that attracts 
researchers and prospective students from abroad.
Indicators: 1) In 2025, JLU will have five internationally visible 
transnational education projects or internationally visible collabo-
rative research projects. 2) JLU will have a functioning system for 
international marketing and student recruitment, increasing the 
proportion of international students to 13% by 2025 and 14%  
by 2030.Internationalisation
of research
Internationalisation of 
teaching programmes
International student recruitment
Evaluation and revision of 
Internationalisation Strategy
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN45
5.4 DIGITALISATION
Digitalisation is key to the future-focused development of the three main performance 
dimensions of research, teaching and transfer as well as the area of governance and admi-nistration. The availability of appropriately efficient IT infrastructures and the optimally structured governance of digitalisation processes is of special relevance to all of these areas.
In the context of the Executive Committee on Digitalisation made up of representatives of the 
Executive Board, research and administration, strategic digitalisation priorities were initially identified in 2019 in the three performance dimensions and in the areas of administration
 /
  
governanc
e and infrastructure. Prioritisations in the area of digitalisation are based on the 
strategic objectives of the individual performance dimensions. Digitalisation priorities in rese-arch, for example, serve to raise the research profile in JLU's focus areas and areas of potential through innovative approaches in research data management. Digitalisation priorities in tea-ching concentrate on the university-wide academic focus on teacher training, development of online and blended learning formats, the teaching of digital competencies in study program-mes and the strategic goal of optimising study administration structures (> Section 3.3). In the performance dimension of transfer, a special emphasis is placed on extending digital formats for scientific communication. 
JLU's IT Service Centre was reviewed and evaluated in January 2020. Particular attention 
was paid here to the proposals put forward in the Hessian Court of Auditors' report on IT at universities in Hessen.
Taking into consideration these digitalisation priorities and on the basis of the IT Service Cen-
tre's evaluation, a detailed strategy for the further development of IT governance at JLU will initially be drawn up in 2020 with the help of external experts. There will be a special emphasis on IT security.
On the basis of the identified priorities and the concept for IT governance and security, a 
university strategy for the systematic development of the cross-sectional dimensions of digitalisation will then be agreed and formulated in 2021 at JLU with the involvement of 
5.4 Priority development goal: Digitalisation
5.4 
 JL
U pursues and systematically implements a clearly defined 
strategy for the design of digitalisation in all fields of action at 
the University.
Indicators: 1) JLU will have advanced governance structures by 2025 to be able to strategically prepare and implement long-
term resource and structural decisions in the field of digitalisation. 
2) The IT Service Centre will be reorganised on the basis of an over-all evaluation by 2025 and will support development planning inthe area of digitalisation.
Fig. 19 Digital agriculture: The use of innovative digital methods in the agri -
cultural sciences is a digitalisation prio -
rity in research and teaching at JLU. This p
hoto shows the internationally unique 
DroughtSpotter XXL unit which precisely documents the reactions of over 1,000 plants to drought stress under control -
led conditions at five-minute intervals t
hroughout the year. Digitalisation focuses at JLU
Further development of IT 
 governance and IT security
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS46
all relevant stakeholders and governing bodies. The strategy document will outline the 
central policies for digitalisation until 2030. The strategy therefore provides the frame-work for the systematic development of the cross-sectional dimension and targeted use of federal state resources promised for this area in the context of the Hessian Digital Pact for Higher Education.
5.5 SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability – in terms of individual and institutional action based on the awareness that natural resources are limited – is one of the key challenges faced by society today. Parti-cular importance is attached in this respect to education and science. JLU acknowledges the special responsibilities of the scientific community. This is why in autumn 2019, with the participation of all relevant governing bodies, it decided to define sustainability as an additional strategic cross-sectional dimension in the context of its development plans, which concerns all performance dimensions at JLU. On the one hand, the University reco-gnises its responsibility as an institution to help develop innovative solutions for sustain-able political, economic and ecological action by gaining scientific knowledge, and also to consider aspects of sustainability in its teaching. On the other, JLU also strives to design its own organisational processes in a way that is as sustainable and resource-saving as possible and in doing so to support the future-focused development of key performance dimensions. Sustainability is important for a University not only on an institutional level. All members of JLU are also responsible for sustainability through their individual actions. This is why the cross-sectional dimension of sustainability can only be designed by the institute and individual members of the University jointly.
JLU's position on sustainability follows, on the one hand, the relevant guidelines, specifi-
cations and targets of the federal state of Hessen. On the other, the Sustainable Develop-ment Goals (SDG) of the United Nations provide basic guidance on structuring this  
5.5 Priority development goal: Sustainability
5.5 
 JL
U has a clear strategy for the design and implementation 
of its sustainability goals in all of the University's performance 
dimensions.
Indicators: 1) JLU will produce a concept on the University's sus-tainability priorities in all performance dimensions by 2022 and systematically implement the goals and measures of the concept on the basis of a detailed milestone plan. 
2) JLU will set up an office for sustainability as a central coordi-
nation structure and appoint a sustainability representative bymid-2021. Analogously, the faculties will be advised to appointtheir own sustainability officers. The office for sustainability will bedeveloped into a "Green Office" or given an structure appropriate toits role in the following years.Sustainable action as a 
social challengeDigitalisation Strategy
STRATEGIC CROSS-SECTIONAL DIMENSIONS | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN47
complex area of action. JLU is already making important contributions in research, tea-
ching, knowledge transfer and other areas to many of the objectives defined by the SDG, 
such as food security, sustainable energy or peacekeeping. This is the case, for example, 
in its forward-looking study programmes in the nutritional, agricultural and environmental 
sciences, the activities of the interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Develop-
ment and Environmental Research (ZEU) and in its basic research into energy storage 
systems of the future. Special mention should be made of the international cooperation 
project SDG Nexus Network. Funded by DAAD for five years from 2020, the project rese-
arches the relationships and interdependencies of the 17 SDG in a new scientific compe-
tence centre at JLU. Sustainability measures are also considered and implemented in the 
areas of administration and infrastructure, for example, in the efficient management of 
structural and technical infrastructures.
Above and beyond the described examples, a broad spectrum of initiatives and projects 
in research, teaching and transfer and in administration, address issues of sustainability 
at JLU. In future, these projects will be made more visible and coordinated throughout 
the University so that synergies can be exploited and a standpoint and profile for the 
cross-sectional dimension of sustainability can be developed for the University as a whole. 
JLU's goal is to develop a sustainability strategy based on a comprehensive status quo 
analysis with the close participation of representatives of the Executive Board, the scien-
tific community, student body and the central administration which pools and highlights 
existing activities, identifies thematic priorities in research, teaching and transfer as well 
as other fields of action such as administration, mobility and property management, and 
defines specific objectives to be reached by 2030. The measures that result from this will 
be implemented on a step-by-step basis from 2022 onwards. The development of sustain-
ability concepts and strategies will be scientifically supported by the Panel on Planetary 
Thinking, which was established in 2020 with the support of the Executive Board. This 
body acts as a research-oriented think-tank that draws on the interdisciplinary expertise 
of top-level researchers at JLU, endorses the University's stance on sustainability and 
also supports the transfer of appropriate subjects from research and teaching to society 
through high-profile events. 
Fig. 20 Research Facility for Climate Effects: To develop strategies to reduce the impact of climate change, the Research Facility for Climate 
Effects in Linden uses CO2 enrichment rings to study the effects of carbon dioxide on plants, soil and animals. Sustainability in research, teaching, 
transfer and administration
Panel on Planetary ThinkingSustainability Strategy
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GOVERNANCE48
SECTION 6
GOVERNANCE
JLU has continually developed its internal management and governance structures in recent 
years in order to strengthen its own ability to act and implement strategic decisions – also 
in the context of an increasingly competitive science system that focuses on the individual 
profile of universities. One of the foundations upon which these successful developments are 
based is the systematically promoted participation of all areas of the University in strategy 
development processes. The aim of engaging all relevant actors and stakeholders early on 
in development planning processes is to embed key policy-making decisions in all Univer -
sity bodies. For example, JLU's Extended Executive Board, which is implemented in JLU's 
Basic Charter and comprises the Executive Board, all eleven deans, the Women's and Gender 
Equality Representative and representatives of the Staff Council and student body, serves 
to regularly coordinate academic and administrative development processes. Between 2015 
and 2019, the Governance and Budget Commission (STEP), which includes members of the 
Extended Executive Board as well as spokespersons of the Senate and advisory members of the 
Senate, was also used to regularly discuss the University's strategic development prospects. 
The work of STEP has been continued since 2019 in the context of the newly founded Strategy 
Council (see below). These participatory coordination processes, which are designed at JLU 
as a systematic exchange between academic and administrative areas according to a "mutual 
response mode", promote consensus-building at the University and thus also help prepare dis-
cussions and decision-making processes in the governing bodies that are responsible according 
to the Hessen Higher Education Act. Planning for the University as a whole is coordinated with 
the individual development planning of the faculties according to internal target agreements, 
which are agreed every five years in a top-down / bottom-up process between the Executive 
Board and the Deaneries. Redesigned in 2016, the target agreement process includes clearly 
defined and measurable target formulations for all central performance areas at the University. 
The implementation status of the most important targets is reviewed and discussed in an 
annual controlling procedure together with all faculties. The evaluation of development plans 
and target agreements, which takes place at the end of each five-year planning period, forms 
the basis for development planning for the following period according to the quality cycle for 
development plans (> Section 6.1).Participation of all areas 
of the University
Internal target agreements
GOVERNANCE | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN49
Participation and university-wide consensus-building are the basis of joint strategic planning 
processes between the central decision-makers at JLU. The photo shows the Senate hall in the Main University Building. 
The area of governance also includes the University's administrative structures and pro-cesses. These too have been gradually optimised and, where necessary, adjusted as requi-red in recent years. Particularly important fields of action are that of building develop-ment and budget and finance. Given the considerable renovation requirements at JLU, construction and property management must be optimally planned. In the area of finance, JLU has a well-established system of internal budgeting with extensive human resource autonomy in the faculties. In the last few years, reserves management, in particular, has been further developed in line with agreements with the federal state. The said fields of action in the area of governance will be systematically developed in the coming years and adjusted on an ongoing basis to current needs.
The sustainably successful implementation of the objectives and measures addressed in 
this Development Plan requires effective administrative and support structures, coordina-ted planning and management processes and transparent communication and decision-  
making channels. Proposals for the optimisation of existing governance and administrative structures were developed in 2018 in the strategic considerations of the Liebig Concept and in some cases translated into concrete measures.
To further strengthen the participatory development planning process, the Governance 
and Budget Commission (STEP) was incorporated into the Strategy Council, which in future will be made up not only of members of STEP but also representatives of JLU's top-level research areas and the central administrative units. Specifically, this means that the perspectives of (top-level) research will be integrated more strongly in the University's general strategic plans.Furthermore, the new governing body of JLU's Research Council will start its work in 2020. The Council is made up of spokespersons for the focus areas and areas of potential, the accent areas of the faculties and select external top-level researchers. As a science-led body of experts, it monitors the discussions and voting pro-cedures of the Strategy Council and advises the Executive Board on issues relating to the University's overall research strategy. In the coming years, both bodies will help support development planning that is geared to the requirements of science.Further development of institutional structures: Strategy Council and  Research Council
6.1 GOVERNANCE, QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GOVERNANCE50
A special focus in the area of governance will also be on the development of the professo-
rial appointment system. This will be achieved, in particular, through the implementation of a strategic appointment planning procedure, which begins well before the actual recru-itment authorisation phase starts. By regularly reviewing all chairs that will become vacant in the next five years, recruitment authorisation processes can be planned well in advance in future and vacancies can thus be used to build the University's profile more strategically and be closely coordinated with development planning at faculty and overall University level. In parallel, the existing operational processes of the recruitment authorisation and appointment procedures at JLU will undergo a fundamental audit. The aim is to interlink the perspectives of development planning even more closely with the operational process management of the Human Resources and Finance department in order to both strengt -
hen the strategic orientation of the procedures and accelerate the overall process (from recruitment authorisation to acceptance of an offer).
In terms of quality management at the University as a whole, JLU undertook an appraisal 
of quality assurance instruments and measures in its central fields of action in 2019. The central, university-wide instruments and measures are integrated in the regulatory cycle for quality assurance that is part of the University's strategic and development planning (> Fig. 21: Quality cycle). This cycle includes the following steps: 1) definition of strategies and (quality) goals for the individual fields of action, 2) control and support of measures to ensure implementation according to the target agreements of the Executive Board with the faculties, 3) ongoing review of the measures in terms of the achievement of goals using various procedures and instruments (especially control of target agreements), and 4) regular presentation and discussion of development progress and results in the Univer -
sity's governing bodies and on the basis of this adjustment of the goals and measures after five years. University-wide quality management is therefore one of the key managementand leadership tasks of the Executive Board and is closely linked to university-wide strate-gic and development planning. Insofar as it integrates all of the University's central fieldsof action, the quality cycle for development planning includes the specific developmentprocesses in the performance dimensions of research, teaching, transfer in the strategiccross-sectional dimensions and in the area of administration and governance. On thisbasis, JLU will supplement the overall university quality cycle of strategic and develop-ment planning by establishing and interlinking its own quality assurance systems and cor -
responding control cycles in all performance dimensions and cross-sectional dimensions.
JLU also actively develops structures and processes to guarantee effective administrative 
action geared to the needs of stakeholders in research and teaching. In the past few years, a strong basis for this has been developed or optimised in many areas of central administration. 
6.1 Priority development goal: Governance, quality management and 
administration
6.1 JLU has effective processes in University management.
Indicators: 1) The new institutional structures of the Strategy  
Council and Research Council will be fully implemented in 2021. 
2) By 2022, all professorial appointment procedures will be syste-
matically integrated into the strategic development planning, whilethe overall process will be shortened (from recruitment authorisa-tion to acceptance of an offer) to 16 months.Implementation of a strategic  
professorial appointment policy
Quality management
GOVERNANCE | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN51
Mention should be made, for example, of the large-scale project to develop an identity 
management system (IDM). This has resulted in a new Staff Service Centre for employees, digital building plans throughout and other optimised administrative processes. In the medium term, the various processes, systems and organisational units relating to adminis-trative modernisation, information management, organisational development and digitali-sation will be systematically and closely coordinated (> Section 5.4). As part of measures to develop strategic controlling, data processes will be reviewable across departments in future, stakeholders will be more effectively networked, and information should be more demand-oriented and easily retrievable. JLU will promote the further development of 
  Preparation of the University Development Plan JLU 2030 with 
specific objectives in the central performance dimensions of rese-
arch, teaching, transfer and strategic cross-sectional dimensions 
   Development of individual str ategies for all performance  
dimensions and cross-sectional dimensions to specify and complement the objectives of the Development Plan 
PLAN
CHECKACT DO   Formulation of binding core 
objectives in research, studies and teaching as well as reserves  
management for all faculties    Analysis of tar get  
achievement in central  
strategy governing bodies and committees  
   On this basis: r evision and 
further development of  
strategic and development planning after five years    F ormulation of subject-specific 
goals based on development plans in all performance dimensions and cross- sectional dimensions  Profile-building in all performance  
dimensions und cross-sectional dimensions  
Controlling target achievement Planning and defi nition of targets
Implementation and control 
Verification and review 
Further development and optimisation Target agreements of the  
Executive Board and faculties Feedback with strategic 
and development planning 
   Annual c ollection of key figures for binding core objectives 
and discussion between the Executive Board and Deaneries 
   Supplementar y interim and final reports (every two to four 
years) from the faculties on all agreed targets
Fig. 21 Quality cycle: Coordinated, interlinked quality assurance instruments and measures in the University's strategic and develop -
ment plans support the implementation of objectives in all performance dimensions. 
Strategic controlling
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GOVERNANCE52
strategic controlling, with the participation of all departments involved in administration 
and controlling processes and, in particular, examine the possibility of introducing a cen-
tral document management system or data warehouse solution.
6.2 CONSTRUCTION AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
The maintenance and structural development of JLU's campuses and campus areas will 
be carried out according to long-term development planning and serves to promote 
high-quality research and teaching at the University's location in Giessen. With the foun-
dation of JLU's Kerckhoff Campus and its medical faculty in Bad Nauheim, JLU was able 
to consolidate its position in the region in 2018 and institutionalise successful, long-stan-
ding collaborations with the Kerckhoff-Klinik. Between 2016 and 2020, important miles-
tones in JLU's overall construction strategy were reached in the context of the investment 
programmes HEUREKA and HSP Invest. In spite of these achievements, however, around 
60% of JLU building stock is still in need of modernisation and renovation. Additional 
investment is therefore needed to be able to maintain the available space and thus the 
teaching and research spectrum of the comprehensive university in the long term, and to 
develop it in a future-focused manner.
6.2 Priority development goal: Construction and property management
6.2  The strategic building development is implemented and structurally 
optimised as planned.
Indicators: 1) The first expansion phase of the master plan for the 
Philosophikum and the renovation of the facade of Heinrich-Buff-
Ring 58 will be completed by 2025. 2) The Computer-Aided Facility 
Management System will be fully implemented by 2025.
In the context of the energy-efficient renovation and modernisation of existing buildings 
and the coordination and implementation of the central new build planning processes, the 
focus will be on the following development goals from 2021: 1) Further realisation of the 
structural development measures agreed with the federal state of Hessen. These include, 
first and foremost, completion of the first expansion phase of the master plan for the 
conversion of the Philosophikum, which accommodates the humanities, cultural studies 
and social sciences at JLU; the further renovation and modernisation of the Biologikum 
building at Heinrich-Buff-Ring 58, which will bring together the biology subjects and 
in the long term develop the Campus for Natural and Life Sciences Seltersberg; and the 
renovation and expansion of the horse clinic in the veterinary medicine area of campus, 
which is one of JLU's unique selling propositions. 2) The introduction of management 
tools for sustainable property and premises management. With the implementation of 
a computer-aided facility management system (CAFM), modules for improved operative 
control (area monitoring, management of maintenance and repair, controlling of construc-
tion processes) and for strategic construction planning (area structure development, buil-Structural development 
of campus
Sustainable property and 
area management
GOVERNANCE | JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN53
Fig. 22 Campus of the Future: Currently based in the Philosophikum, the social sciences, cultural studies and humanities will be accommodated 
in extensively renovated and modernised buildings for teaching and research in the future. ding condition analysis) will be gradually introduced. 3) Implementation of the proposals 
of Consilium Campus Development Giessen (CCG) with a focus on mobility and connected 
JLU campus areas. The introduction of a bike sharing scheme in 2018 was the first step 
towards environment-friendly mobility services. Between 2021 and 2025, the CCG, which 
acts as a central communication platform linking JLU, stakeholders in the city and Hessian 
ministries, will develop and implement additional measures to connect campus areas both 
with each other and with the structure of the city and surrounding area – and optimise 
JLU's visibility in the public sphere. A special focus will be on the development of a 
JLU-based route guidance and navigation system and expansion of e-mobility structures. 
4) The systematic connection of strategic building planning and development planning in 
the performance areas of research and teaching. To develop modern building infrastruc-
tures and create the best possible conditions for all JLU stakeholders, research and tea-
ching-related structural developments will be coordinated even more closely, and require-
ments and opportunities will be discussed early on in the planning stage in the context of 
the University's development as a whole. This applies, in particular, to the further and new 
development of core facilities in JLU's focus areas and areas of potential (> Section 2.3).Consilium Campus Development Giessen
Strategic building planning
JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN | GOVERNANCE54
6.3 BUDGET AND FINANCES
Budgets and finances are essential components of university governance. The basic funding 
allocated to JLU by the federal state of Hessen is agreed within the context of the Hessen 
Higher Education Pact for a period of five years and offered in the form of a global bud-
get. The extensive financial autonomy this provides allows the University to make decisions 
about resources independently. On this basis, priorities can be defined and the University's 
profile can be designed in a targeted manner. In addition to basic funding, competitively 
acquired third-party funds for projects in research and teaching, including additional over -
head grants, are a vital part of JLU's overall funding.
The agreements set out in the Higher Education Pact of Hessen 2021-2025 and funds 
from the German and Länder governments' "Pact for the Future: Strengthening Studies 
and Teaching" offer JLU planning security for its basic funding. JLU needs a reliable finan-
cial basis to be able to raise its profile in research and teaching through the targeted 
support of strategically important areas and, by improving its performance, to increase the 
attractiveness of the state of Hessen as a location for science and research.
To strengthen JLU's capacity to act through permanent and plannable budgets and, at 
the same time, to react flexibly to the challenges of the future, all financial components 
in JLU's overall budget are considered in their entirety as part of a medium-term financial 
plan, which is drawn up for five years and updated annually, and linked to predictions 
about resource requirements and cost development. Taking into account the current uni-
versity pact agreements, the areas of reserves and risk management, in particular, will be 
developed in the next few years as strategic instruments for a methodical budget manage-
ment which is geared towards the interests of the University as a whole, and systematically 
integrated into the overall system of medium-term financial planning.
With regard to its internal budget system, JLU has relied on budgets for personnel and material 
resources (with the exception of professorships) since 2008 which are accounted for decen-
trally. The current budgeting system will be further developed and made more dynamic from 
2021 with the introduction of a new indicator-based global budget (IGB). In future, the IGB 
will combine the human and material resources budgets, which have previously been deter -
mined and managed separately, and in addition to a constant basic budget, also have a bud-
get share allocated according to performance-related criteria. By aligning these criteria to the 
agreements (and performance indicators) of the Higher Education Pact 2021-2025 of Hessen, 
JLU will use the IGB to coordinate its internal budgeting logic more closely with the budgeting 
system of the state of Hessen that is relevant to the University as a whole. The established 
reserves management is also being used in the scope of the new budgeting model.
6.3 Priority development goal: Budget and finances
6.3 JLU has future-focused budgeting structures.
Indicators: 1) The indicator-based global budget will be implemen-
ted in all faculties by 2025. 2) JLU has a permanent reserves ratio 
of 20% (reference 2019: 21%) according to the computational 
bases of the state of Hessen.Basic funding
Medium-term financial planning
Reserves and risk management
Indicator-based global budget
THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF JUSTUS LIEBIG UNIVERSITY GIESSEN
JLU 2030
