Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University
VISION  2031
Commit tee

  Greetings
  Executive Summary
Ⅰ. Overview
 1. KAIST Grand VISION 2031
 2. Presentation of Objective Goals
 3.   Attainment of Goals through  
Five Key Innovations
 4. Sustainability of Strategies
 5. KAIST’s Development and Achievements
 6. Reflection
 7.   Integrated Model of  
Five Key Innovation Strategies
Ⅱ. Survey
 1. Survey Outline
 2. Survey Results
 3. Key Responses
Ⅲ. Details
 1. Education Innovation
 2. Research Innovation
 3. Technology Commercialization Innovation
 4. Globalization Innovation
 5. Future Strategy Innovation1
25
27
33
34 
36
38
45
51 
53
55
56
57
61
63
67
73
77
82
CONTENTSMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University
Ⅳ. Action Strategies
 1. Outline of Action Strategies
 2.   Organization and Governance Competence in 
Convergence and Collaborative Research
 3. Human Resources
 4. Funding
 5.   Number of Faculty Members/  
Students and Budgeting
 6. Major Projects
Ⅴ. Conclusion
 1.   Leading Future Society through  
Science and Technology
 2. Contribution to World Development
 3.    Establishment of KAIST Strategic  
Research Center
 4.   From 2017 to 2071 – KAIST’s 100th  
Year Anniversary
 5. Action List
 6. Closing Remarks
  Appendix
 1. Progress
 2. VISION 2031 Committee83
85
91
97
100
103 
105
111
113 
116
117 
118 
119
132
133
135
136


KAIST Challenge and Innovation
“VISION 2031” embodies KAIST’s willingness to take on new challenges and lead 
innovation. Since its establishment in 1971, KAIST has grown into a world-class university 
under the strong support of the state and Korean people. In order to meet public 
expectations, KAIST is poised to take a new leap forward toward becoming a world-
leading university.
The “Terman Report,” which provided a crucial impetus for the establishment of KAIST, 
contains “dreams and vision” that look beyond the horizon of history. As suggested in the 
heading of its final chapter, “The Dream of the Future,” the report concludes as follows: 
“It will by 2000 be a great Institute of Technology with an international reputation. KAIS 
will have spearheaded a new era in education. Even more important, KAIS will have 
enhanced the self-confidence of Koreans, and will have become a cornerstone in the 
establishment of a stable free society in Korea.”
The dream envisioned in the report has been fulfilled. KAIST has led the industrialization 
of Korea for half a century, fueling rapid economic growth. Since its foundation, KAIST 
has produced 61,932 graduates, including 12,620 Ph.D. degree holders, in science and 
engineering. KAIST graduates, who are now working at universities, research institutes, 
businesses, and governmental agencies, have played a pivotal role in the nation’s 
industrialization and in the information revolution. Approximately 23% of those graduates 
have attained leadership positions in industry, academia, and research institutes in Korea.
KAIST has also served as a breeding ground for innovative startups, earning the 
nickname “venture academy of Korea.” The number of startups founded by our 
graduates totals 1,456, creating about 32,000 jobs and 13.6 trillion won in annual sales. 
Given that the total amount of government funding for KAIST for the past 46 years is 2.9 
trillion won, the return on government investment is very high. In terms of startups only, 
we can safely say that KAIST is one of the most successful government projects. 
The latest international university rankings have confirmed KAIST’s position as a world 
class institution; it ranked 41st overall in the 2017 QS World University Rankings, and 
it ranked third in the QS list of new universities, those that are less than 51 years old. 
In particular, it topped the list of the world’s most innovative universities released by 
Thomson-Reuters, in both 2016 and 2017.Greetings
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
With the arrival of the fourth industrial revolution in the 21st century, KAIST now faces an 
opportunity to fulfill a new mission. As a university that was a beacon of hope to Korean 
people fifty years ago when the nation was about to enter the stage of industrialization 
and ultimately became the spearhead of the nation’s industrial development, KAIST will 
vigorously embark on a new journey toward its “second mission,” and remain a beacon 
illuminating the future of Korea and humanity. Under the vision of becoming a "global 
value-creative leading university," KAIST will concentrate on innovations in five areas: 1) 
education; 2) research; 3) technology commercialization; 4) globalization of the university; 
and 5) future strategies for the university and our country. 
In this report, KAIST will present concrete action plans for innovation. These innovative 
strategies have been formulated as a result of intensive discussions among experts 
from various fields, as well as with KAIST members, held over the course of a year. 
Indeed, we have continuously provided a forum for communication, such as on- and off-
campus hearings, so that the process of drawing up plans could be shared by both KAIST 
members and Korean people. In an effort to give the public easy access to the report, 
it will be published in the Korean language under the title “2031 KAIST Future Report.” 
Also, through the declaration ceremony of  VISION 2031, we will introduce a new vision to 
the nation and its people, suggesting a path toward a hopeful future.
I have the firm conviction that in 2031, when KAIST will celebrate the 60th anniversary of 
its founding, it will have made a leap forward toward becoming a global value-creative 
leading university. Our second mission will be fulfilled without failure. Our confidence for 
the new mission will be included in the "VISION 2031 Report," sometimes called "Second 
Terman Report." And it is as follows.
“In 2031, KAIST will have spearheaded the fourth industrial revolution via innovation 
in education, research, technology commercialization, and globalization. Even more 
important, KAIST will have enhanced the pride of Koreans, and will have become a 
cornerstone in the establishment of Korea as an advanced country.”
Thank you.
February 2018 
Sung-Chul Shin
President of KAIST
1
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Main Goal of VISION 2031: As a global value-creative leading university, KAIST seeks to 
contribute to the “happiness and prosperity of humanity through innovation in science 
and technology.”
1. Culture and Value Orientation of VISION 2031
Culture of  VISION 2031
VISION  2031 promotes a culture of inclusiveness and respect among all members. KAIST 
seeks to produce science and technology leaders who can cooperatively solve problems 
by using creativity to meet challenges. These creative individuals will possess strong 
character traits, including a passion for challenges, the capacity to overcome adversity, 
and self-directedness. In addition, they will have the ability to identify scientific issues and 
social problems, cooperating across various disciplines to resolve identified issues and 
thereby creating new value. 
VISION 2031 encourages a love of humanity based on mutual respect and consideration 
among members. Each member will carry out responsibilities in education, research, 
and administration with a strong sense of ethics. At the same time, mutual respect and 
constructive relations will be fostered with the local community and various stakeholders.
Furthermore, KAIST will produce global leaders who contribute to not only the 
development of Korea but also the advancement of humanity. These leaders will mature 
into communicators who are capable of working harmoniously with others around the 
world to overcome global issues.
2•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityIdeal KAISTian
The core values previously emphasized by KAIST were “challenge” and “creativity.” Under 
the new vision, KAIST will promote a “caring” spirit among members and exert efforts 
to nurture talent with focus on C³: “challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring.” Here, “caring” 
refers to the empathy to embrace others, individual morality, and social responsibility 
based on genuine respect. C³ will serve as an important criterion in the recruitment of 
students, faculty, and staff.
3
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!2. Integrated System and Slogan of VISION 2031
Framework of KAIST Grand VISION 2031
The University of Science & Technology Innovation
for Humanity's Happiness and Prosperity
੄  җ  ৔ਸ  ਤೠ ഄन  ೟A Global Value-Creative Leading University
ߥ۽  о஖ହ୹  ೟
Innovation in 
Technology
Commercialization
↟ Activating entrepreneurship 
education
↟ Strengthening  
infrastructure for startups
↟ Building professional IP 
management systems
↟  Establishing technology 
holding company & 
cooperation clusterTech.-Value Creating
Entrepreneurial
UniversityInnovation in
Globalization
↟ Maintaining a global 
campus
  ↟ Establishing overseas 
campuses
  ↟ Pursuing KAIST-initiated 
global research
  ↟ Expanding KAIST 
development model to 
developing countriesWorld Bridge
KAIST by 2031
Creativity Challenge Caring KAIST C3 SpiritInnovation 
in Research
Research on
Challenging Problems
Faced by Humanity &
Countries
↟ Shaping sustainable 
research environment
↟ Promoting creative & 
risk-taking research
↟ Fostering 
global-leading 
transdisciplinary 
research groups↟ Recruiting students 
with creative potential
↟ Transforming 
curriculums and 
systems
↟ Transforming teaching 
and learning methodsInnovation 
in Education
Fostering Social-
Value Enhancing
Creative-Leaders
Innovation in Future Strategy 
A university that pursues twhatu and thowu
Integrated System of VISION 2031
4•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityVISION 2031 is built on an integrated system comprising five innovation divisions: 
education, research, technology commercialization, globalization, and future strategy. 
KAIST will deliver optimal results in each innovation division under the new vision 
of C³, which stands for “challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring.” Through systematic 
implementation of VISION 2031, KAIST will gain the competence to prioritize “what” over 
“how,” as expected of a world-leading university. By integrating the various innovation 
strategies of VISION 2031 into a virtuous self-reinforcing system, KAIST will guarantee 
the sustainability of its vision.
Through the complementary relations among the five innovation divisions, KAIST will 
derive action plans to achieve “happiness and prosperity of humanity through innovation 
in science and technology” and ultimately succeed in fulfilling its key mission of becoming 
a “global value-creative leading university.” 
VISION 2031 Slogan
The spirit of VISION 2031 is conveyed in a simple and easily understandable slogan. 
The slogan of VISION 2031 relies on affective language to express the idea of “human-
centered innovation,” which can be understood by everyone throughout the world. 
“Difference” represents a love for challenges and the power to overcome adversity. 
“Beyond Imagination” means the spirit of creativity. “Beautiful” represents a caring 
spirit which encompasses the capacity to respect others, individual morality, and social 
responsibility. Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
5
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!3. Innovation Strategies of Each Division
Presented below are the visions and specific action plans for the five divisions of 
education, research, technology commercialization, globalization, and future strategy.
Education Innovation
The vision for education innovation is “Fostering Social-Value Enhancing Creative-
Leaders .” We propose 17 action items to achieve this vision.
< Innovation Strategy of Education >
Innovation Strategy Action Item
Recruiting 
students with 
creative potential•  Improvement of admissions process to recruit students with 
creative talent
•  Improvement of admissions process to recruit diverse students 
•  Enhancement of benefits and aid to attract outstanding students
•  Normalization of high school education by improving student 
recruitment methods
Transforming 
curriculums and 
systems•  Strengthening of freshmen courses
•  Introduction of flexible semesters and flexible credit systems
•  Strengthening of advisor roles and thesis research
•  Strengthening of curriculum monitoring and feedback
•  Establishment of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies
•  Establishment of creative design labs and training programs
Transforming 
teaching and 
learning methods•  Implementation and expansion of Education 4.0 program for 
transforming teaching and learning methods
•  Enhancement of smart learning infrastructure
•  Expansion of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and  
real-time distance joint classes
•  Introduction of extreme-end classes
•  Modularization of courses for customized education
•  Establishment of bilingual teaching environment
•  Establishment of system for education innovation
6•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe ongoing fourth industrial revolution will advance humanity by science and technology 
innovation. What kinds of science and technology talent do we need in the future? KAIST 
will make efforts to foster creative transdisciplinary leaders who can enhance social 
values of science and technology.
First, we will establish the School of Transdisciplinary Studies and present a model 
of education to foster global leaders for the fourth industrial revolution. The non-
departmental track of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies will contribute to fostering 
transdisciplinary talent with strong foundation in basic science and engineering, as 
well as fast adaptability to the changing environment. The Steering Committee for the 
Establishment of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies will design the curriculum and 
establish course development plans, with the goal of launching the program in March 
2019. The establishment of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies will offer students 
more diverse majors to choose from.
KAIST students should have stronger global competence. We will teach them to learn 
how to change the world as Global Shapers, how to drive innovation in the world as 
Global Innovators, and how to move the world as Global Movers. We will provide students 
with more opportunities, including global volunteering activities, to develop a passion for 
volunteering, embrace challenges, make sacrifices, and take on responsibility. We will 
invite more Nobel laureates and global leaders to inspire our students to pursue global 
thinking and contribution. 
Innovative changes must be introduced to lectures conducted regularly on campus. In 
an age when teaching methodologies and techniques are evolving by the day, KAIST 
should develop its own innovative lecture model to keep up with the times. The institute 
will offer degree programs that integrate smart learning infrastructure such as EDU 
4.0 and KOOCs(KAIST MOOCs) with educational know-how, thereby reflecting the latest 
trends of student-centered education innovation, including Flipped Learning and MOOC. 
As part of giving back to society through education, KAIST will expand its virtual campus 
for the upskilling of business people. Retraining programs have been viewed as the most 
effective solution for companies seeking to enhance competitiveness in the age of the 
fourth industrial revolution. In response to this demand, KAIST will provide real-time 
distance joint classes for businesspeople to study and work at the same time. 
7
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Research Innovation
The vision of KAIST research innovation is “Research on Challenging Problems Faced 
by Humanity & Countries." We propose the following three innovation strategies with 13  
action items to achieve this vision.
< Innovation Strategy of Research >
Innovation Strategy Action Item
Shaping
sustainable
research
environment•  Innovation in researcher hiring system
•  Establishment of self-initiated research centers
•  Cross-generational collaboration lab system 
•  Stimulating research collaboration among KAIST, industries, and 
research institutes
•  Strengthening strategic research planning functions
Promoting 
creative & risk-
taking research•  Strengthening of creative/risk-taking research
•  Attracting of outstanding/diverse international faculty
•  Providing motivation for spinoff startups 
•  Improving research service system
•  Strengthening research capacity through academic information 
service
Fostering
global-leading
transdisciplinary
research groups•  Establishment of selection process for future-oriented flagship 
strategy research 
•  Selection of candidate areas based on flagship selection process 
•  Establishment and implementation of plans to support flagship research
Among these research innovation strategies and action items, the key issues are 
described below; 
First, KAIST needs to create a transdisciplinary and meta-research platform to promote 
cross-boundary collaborative research activities among KAIST faculty members and 
research groups. In the era of the fourth industrial revolution, a transdisciplinary research 
approach is not merely an add-on to the conventional research practice, but a core 
research strategy beyond inter-and transdisciplinary research methods. Moreover, the 
meta-research framework enables the combination of multiple sets of “transdisciplinary 
research” activities to enhance the diversity and depth of research activities. Thus, 
KAIST should also recognize the importance of a transdisciplinary and meta-research 
framework, and create a new research platform to promote these types of collaborative 
research activities. 
8•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityBio/medical
National defense/security/aerospaceFourth industrial revolution
Wise Brain
Understanding of brain function/
treatment of brain diseasesSuper Intelligence Initiative
Future artificial intelligence
Hyperconnection photonics
Hyperconnected information
processing
New material revolution
New material development/
molecular printingNext-generation Precision medicine platform
Treatment of  cancer/incurable diseases
Energy cloud
Renewable energy production
/storage/distribution
Intelligent unmanned systems
Future warfare and  cyber securitySpace technology innovation
Space innovation
Energy/environmentOvercoming
challenges faced by
humanity and
countries!
Quantum Technology
Next-generation computing/
information and communications
R&S CPHES
Smart infrastructure
for disaster/safety managementSecond, VISION 2031 Research Innovation Committee has been searching for an 
innovative lab model to encourage cross-generational collaboration research. This type of 
“Cross-Generational Collaboration Lab System" will be the first attempt in South Korea 
to sustain academic success and knowledge across the generations through cooperation 
between senior and junior faculty members. 
Third, since its early stages, KAIST has been cooperating actively with industries to 
conduct applied research. In order to scale-up this tradition, KAIST should place 
emphasis on establishing a Triple Helix model of collaboration among industries, 
universities, and research institutions. KAIST will need to play a key role as an open 
innovation hub, where research institutes and young talent on campus gather to 
collaborate and pursue scientific and technological innovation.
Fourth, the committee has defined 10 Flagship Strategic Research Areas through 
extensive discussions and analyses. These areas can be divided into four groups. The 
first group of Flagship Strategic Research Areas includes six research areas related to 
the fourth industrial revolution. The second group has two areas in bio/medicine/medical 
science and healthcare. The third group has one area in energy/renewable energy/
environment, and the fourth group has one area related to defense technology.  
< 10 Flagship Strategic Research Areas >
9
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Technology Commercialization Innovation
The core vision of technology commercialization is a “Technology-Value Creating 
Entrepreneurial University.” The 10 strategies proposed to achieve this vision are as follows. 
< Innovation Strategy of Tech. Commercialization >
Innovation Strategy Action Item
Activating
entrepreneurship 
education•  Establishment of entrepreneurial university model for KAIST
•  Design of undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship 
curricula to nurture entrepreneurs
•  Education on social values and ethics for scientists
Strengthening 
infrastructure for 
startups•  Expansion of KAIST’s entrepreneurial infrastructure for improved 
success rate in entrepreneurial activities
•  Establishment of entrepreneurial ecosystem through 
cooperation with external entrepreneurial infrastructure
Building 
professional IP 
management 
systems•  Establishment of goals for technology commercialization 
activities, and design of incentive system
•  Creation of intellectual property and design of patent  
application/management process
•  Promotion of industry/academy/research institute cooperation 
and transdisciplinary research, and enhancement of patent 
value
Establishing 
technology 
holding company 
& cooperation 
cluster•  Establishment of technology in-kind investment companies and 
expansion of technology investments
•  Establishment of university-industry cooperative clusters 
The mission of universities in the 21st century, in addition to their traditional roles in 
education and research witnessed in the past two centuries, is industrial cooperation 
and social contribution through R&DB. Notably, R&DB is highly important not only in 
expanding university funds, but also in creating jobs for youth and improving national 
competitiveness. 
10•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityFor innovation in technology commercialization, KAIST seeks to maximize its intellectual 
property and economic outcomes by first encouraging the launch of technology in-kind 
investment companies and startups. Technology commercialization experts should 
be fostered in order to improve competence in identifying promising technologies and 
companies. In addition, policies for technology commercialization should be established 
to support investments in selected technologies and companies, and to accelerate the 
startup cycle based on a comprehensive review of general startup-related regulations. It 
is also necessary to instill an entrepreneurial culture by introducing successful cases of 
student startups and inviting well-known entrepreneurs to share their experiences. 
To systematically promote startups, KAIST will exert efforts to establish a diverse 
cooperation infrastructure. A key example is its plan to expand the startup supporting 
infrastructure from the Institute of Startup KAIST to Pangyo and Gangnam in the 
Yangjae R&CD Innovation Hub. Above all, active investment is essential for innovation 
in technology commercialization. KAIST plans to cooperate with investors at home 
and abroad to accelerate commercialization of its outstanding technology. To further 
attract investment, it has signed an MOU for research cooperation and technology 
commercialization with Israel’s Yozma Fund. 
An important aspect of innovation in technology commercialization at KAIST is 
contribution to the development of small- and medium-sized enterprises. The business 
environment has changed rapidly with the advent of the fourth industrial revolution. 
In Korea, small- and medium-sized enterprises constitute a significant portion of the 
national economy, accounting for 99.9% of local businesses and 87% of jobs. Accordingly, 
K-Industry 4.0 was launched to lead the smart transformation of small- and medium-
sized enterprises. Based on KAIST’s outstanding human resources and technology, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises of Korea will be improved to form a world-class 
smart factory. Other efforts aimed at enhancing the competence of such enterprises 
include infrastructure development for prototype testing by startups, matching of 
KAIST’s technology to business demand, and development of automated manufacturing 
technology.
11
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Globalization Innovation
The core vision of globalization innovation is “World Bridge KAIST by 2031.” The 17 
strategies proposed to achieve this vision are as follows. 
< Innovation Strategy of Globalization >
Innovation Strategy Action Item
Maintaining a 
global campus•  Establishment of campus without linguistic/cultural barriers
•  Globalization of faculty
•  Globalization of students and researchers
•  Globalization of administrative system
Establishing 
overseas 
campuses•  Establishment and management of global R&D centers  
(USA/EU and ASIA)
•  Establishment and management of at least one overseas campus
•  Development and utilization of advanced international  
transdisciplinary research/education programs
•  Innovation in global technology commercialization strategies
•  Innovation in PR strategies to enhance KAIST’s visibility
Persuing KAIST-
initiated global 
research•  Outbound international research
•  Inbound international research
•  Global commercialization of KAIST’s outstanding research
•  Establishment of vision and research strategies in  
KAIST-initiated research areas in science and technology
Expanding KAIST 
development 
model to 
developing 
countries•  Dispatching research volunteers to developing countries and 
technical support (R&D technology and equipment)
•  Enhancing KAIST’s reputation among developing countries 
by providing educational support through the establishment 
of graduate schools in economic development, science, and 
technology
•  Establishment of ASEAN-KAIST R&D Center
•  Establishment of KAIST Spirit & Mind Foundation
In the 21st century, globalization is not an option, but rather a must. The first step to 
the globalization of KAIST is to construct a Korean-English Bilingual Campus. In doing 
so, the institute will promote linguistic proficiency in Korean and English by offering 
12•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityEnglish-language educational programs for locals and Korean learning opportunities for 
international members. Cultural experience programs that integrate Korean language 
learning will also be developed, so as to contribute to building a campus in which two-way 
communication is possible in two languages. Bilingualism will be enforced in information 
sharing media, including the KAIST Portal. 
To create a foreigner-friendly campus environment, KAIST will identify issues faced by 
international students and actively find solutions through counseling. The international 
food corner in school cafeterias will be gradually expanded, and the KAIST Daycare 
Center will increase its capacity. International faculty will be provided with improved 
support for their children’s education, including educational subsidies, based on close 
cooperation with Taejon Christian International School. 
Another important agenda of globalization innovation is to enhance the international 
reputation of KAIST. The institute will solidify ties with the World Economic Forum (WEF) 
and other international organizations through the joint organization of international 
events. By participating actively in the international events organized by the organizations 
to publish university rankings such as THE and QS, KAIST will promote its excellence in 
education, research, and technology commercialization.
Future Strategy Innovation
The core vision of future strategy innovation is “a university that simultaneously 
pursues ‘How’ and ‘What.’” A virtuous self-reinforcing system should be established 
to integrate and strengthen ties among the innovation divisions of VISION 2031. The 
key task of the Future Strategy Innovation Division is to provide infrastructure for 
effective implementation of innovation strategies in education, research, technology 
commercialization, and globalization under VISION 2031, and to ensure sustainable 
growth based on transparent assessment and motivation.
The goal of VISION 2031 is for KAIST to become a “global value-creative leading university 
and one of the world’s top 10.” To achieve this vision, the organization, human resources, 
and funds must be optimized. The proposed future strategies serve as basic principles in 
setting basic directions for the four innovation divisions of education, research, technology 
commercialization, and globalization. 
13
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!The principles of implementation of future strategies are as follows. First, KAIST will exert 
efforts to make contributions to humanity in accordance with its founding philosophy and 
sense of duty to the nation. The KAIST culture, previously focusing on the core values 
of “challenge” and “creativity,” will be expanded to include a caring and giving spirit. By 
sharing VISION with all members and passing on the message to younger generations, 
the institute can ensure the sustainability of strategies proposed under VISION 2031. 
Moreover, it will engage in holistic education and research through the convergence of 
science and technology, as well as the cultural arts. 
To prioritize “What” over “How,” KAIST will build the KAIST Future Strategy Research 
Center, which will serve as a think tank group that devises future strategies for KAIST and 
presents solutions to national issues in this age of uncertainty. 
Korea stands at the forefront of information and communications technology and 
various industries. While it was more important to address “How” when Korea was 
lagging behind developed countries, universities must now take the initiative in finding 
“What” to solve. KAIST must make the transition from solving pre-defined problems to 
independently identifying issues, thereby conducting research that sets directions for the 
nation, humanity, and science and technology. The Future Strategy Research Center will 
be equipped with the necessary expertise and insights to serve as a think tank that makes 
evidence-based predictions, thus preparing the nation for a future driven by science and 
technology innovation. It will be responsible for long-term, continuous monitoring to 
ensure the institute’s commitment to VISION 2031. 
More specifically, KAIST will jointly organize pilot projects and international forums 
related to the fourth industrial revolution with the World Economic Forum (WEF), and 
establish a platform to stimulate discussions on global agendas and future strategies 
needed for the fourth industrial revolution. To this end, it will closely cooperate with the 
WEF to become a role model in the age of the fourth industrial revolution, ultimately 
enhancing its international standing and contributing to global science and technology 
innovation.
14•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University4. VISION 2021 – Short-Term Action Strategies 
Short-term action plans and strategies are essential for effective achievement of VISION 
2031. VISION 2021 will be an intermediate base and a milestone leading to VISION 2031, 
which coincides with KAIST’s 60th anniversary. 
VISION 2021
2017412010Global Ranking
2031 2021
VISION 2031
Short-Term Action Strategies for Education Innovation
We will recruit talented individuals with creative potential by improving admission 
assessment methods and criteria. We will admit students who have potential for 
pursuing C3 (Challenge, Creativity, Caring). We will improve the admissions process and 
criteria as follows.
< Short-Term Action Strategies of Education 1 >
Classification Current Improvement
Document 
screening 
(Stage 1)Comprehensive 
evaluation based 
on academic 
performance, 
school records, 
statement 
of purpose, 
and letters of 
recommendation   Emphasis on C³ potential in admission evaluation 
•  (Challenge, Creativity) R&E, student clubs,  
experiential activities
•  (Caring spirit, Sense of community) Volunteering, 
group activities, relationship with peers, filial piety, 
and exemplary performance
•  (Leadership) Performance as class leaders or 
student club leaders
15
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Classification Current Improvement
Interview 
(Stage 2)Comprehensive 
evaluation based 
on academic 
competence  
(problem-solving 
in mathematics 
and science) and 
social capacitiesIn-depth evaluation with separate sessions for 
academic and social capacities 
•  (Increase in interview preparation time) 20 min ('17) 
→ 35 min ('18) → 55 min ('19) 
•  (Additional evaluation by category) 20 min ('18) → 40 
min ('19)
 ☞   Session 1 (20 min): In-depth academic evaluation 
of mathematics, science, english, etc. 
 ☞   Session 2 (20 min): Comprehensive evaluation of 
social capacities, including core values such as 
“challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring”
We will appoint honorary alumni as admissions officers to enhance the reliability and 
expertise of student admissions. Student quotas will be adjusted to diversify the student 
population beyond science high schools, and to increase the proportion of students with 
C3 potential.
< Short-Term Action Strategies of Education 2 >
Classification Current Improvement
Undergra-
duate 
programHigher proportion of students 
from gifted high schools and 
science high schools  
• Gifted/science high school : 
General high school = 7 : 3Selection of students who possess C3 with 
a more balanced distribution between 
gifted/science high schools and general 
high schools 
Higher proportion of male and 
Korean students 
• Male : Female = 8 : 2
• Korean : International =  
94.1 : 5.9Increase in proportion of female students 
and socially challenged
Increase in proportion of international 
students from leading foreign high 
schools (80 students/year) 
※   Improved assessment methods,  
including quantification of results from 
various international exams
16•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityVarious policies will be implemented to draw outstanding international students. At 
present, the number of international students at KAIST only accounts for 6% of the total 
student body, and this is much lower than that of world-class engineering universities 
(34% at MIT, 28% at Nanyang Technological University, 27% at the National University of 
Singapore, and 28% at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology). In the future, 
KAIST will actively recruit international students by receiving recommendations from 
embassies in Korea, collaborating with international faculty to open recruiting booths in 
overseas study scholarship fairs in major developing countries, and supporting KAIST 
international students' promotional visits to high schools for international students.
KAIST will innovate educational programs and systems to cultivate creative, trans-  
disciplinary talent. We will establish the School of Transdisciplinary Studies to help 
students build a solid foundation in basic science and engineering, and define and solve 
emerging convergence and transdisciplinary problems creatively. We will develop a 
new curriculum by reorganizing academic units and disciplines beyond conventional 
academic departments. We will recruit ten dedicated faculty members by the year 2021.
To promote the convergence science and technology with humanities and social 
sciences, KAIST will organize two to three annual meetings between natural sciences 
and humanities. We will also offer joint lectures on humanities and social sciences 
in collaboration with other science and technology universities, driving innovation in 
the social value aspect of education, and sign a funding agreement with the Korea 
Foundation for Advanced Studies (September 2018; goal of at least 10 billion over the next 
five years).
We will continue to transform ways of teaching and learning to provide our students with 
competence in creative and transdisciplinary research. KAIST will establish a Virtual 
University environment by increasing the number of network classes to 20 and teamwork 
rooms to 50 by 2021. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and other large-scale online 
teaching platforms must be adopted to effectively utilize the virtual environment. By 2021, 
the number of KOOCs (KAIST MOOCs) will double to 40.
17
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!< The Number of KAIST MOOCs >
KOOCs 
(KAIST 
MOOCs), 
Coursera, 
K-MOOCsYear 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Developed 14 20 25 30 40
Accumulated 41 61 86 116 156
Education 4.0 classes will account for more than 15% (400 classes) in 2021 and 50% in 
2031.
< The Number of Education 4.0 Classes >
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Classes per year 138(5%) 170 200 250 400(15%)
No. of classrooms 
(accumulated)3(21) 5(26) 5(31) 6(37) 8(45)
KAIST will participate in STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and 
Mathematics) College for K-12 education in collaboration with other science and 
technology universities. This will be sponsored and led by Korea Foundation for the 
Advancement of Science & Creativity. 
Finally, we will introduce unsupervised exams and a student honor code for regular 
classes to fortify student’s morality and integrity.
Short-Term Action Strategies for Research Innovation
Short-term strategies for research innovation consist of the following four parts. 
First, KAIST needs to set up a research planning control tower not only to drive innovation 
in research funding, but also to lay the foundation for world-class research. It should try 
to secure block funding as a preemptive response for KAIST to lead the fourth industrial 
revolution as well. Priority will also be given to outstanding seed projects to deliver world 
best or world first results. 
Second, various policies will be introduced to promote transdisciplinary and collaborative 
18•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universityresearch. The Career Quantum-Jump Grant (CQ-JG) will be launched to provide new/
mid-career/experienced faculty with appropriate equipment and funds. The Fundamental 
Science Cafe will create a space for sharing of ideas in fundamental science. The Multi-
Sponsored Research and Education Program (MSREP) will encourage the involvement 
of research groups across various institutes and contribute to the installment of a remote 
lecturing platform. 
Third, support for creative and risk-taking research must be expanded for individual 
researchers and research teams. To increase the support for risk-taking research, KAIST 
will expand the KAIST Grand Challenge KC30 (KAIST Grand Challenge + seed money 
for Crazy but Grand Ideas) program and provide research equipment to researchers 
who seek breakthroughs in their field of research. This funded creative transdisciplinary 
research project will be conducted to maximize human creativity and other skills that are 
irreplaceable by AI.
Fourth, KAIST plans to launch and implement a cross-generational collaboration lab 
system by the end of 2018, supporting at least 30 labs in the long run. Moreover, KAIST 
will foster world-leading transdisciplinary research groups through the construction of 
a transdisciplinary meta-research building for the age of the fourth industrial revolution, 
and support the National Defense 4.0 Research and Education Project. To emerge as a 
global leader in artificial intelligence (AI), the institute will host the AI World Cup, expand 
its AI curriculum, and support promising projects through the Venture Research Program 
for Graduate Students.
Fifth, KAIST will improve the overall research service/support system by upgrading 
balance accumulation policies, recruiting IP attorneys, and shortening the contract 
process with companies and international research partners.
Short-Term Action Strategies for 
Technology Commercialization Innovation
As part of short-term action strategies for technology commercialization innovation, 
KAIST will first exert efforts to design and expand entrepreneurship education. 
Entrepreneurial and business analytics (BA) curriculum platforms will be designed and 
implemented for all MBA programs. Students will enjoy more diverse options to fulfill 
19
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!credit requirements through basic electives in humanities, required/elective majors, 
and thesis research. Advanced transdisciplinary capstone design classes, which involve 
project-based learning, will be introduced for regular courses in all departments. The 
K-School will be jointly operated with 18 departments for the Master of Entrepreneurship 
& Innovation, and currently enrolled students receiving KAIST and national scholarships 
will have the option of pursuing a graduate minor in entrepreneurship. The Company-
University Cooperation (CUop) program will be launched in cooperation with universities 
specializing in science and technology. 
KAIST will develop an entrepreneurial support infrastructure. The Institute for Startup 
KAIST will be reorganized to strengthen its competence in entrepreneurial support. 
Startup-related regulations will be amended to promote and facilitate research-based 
startups by removing possible obstacles in the startup launching process for faculty, 
students, and researchers. The faculty evaluation system will also be improved. Faculty 
contributions will be acknowledged when students launch startups based on research 
conducted under the supervision of their advisors.
KAIST will create intellectual property and specialize its management process. Experts 
will be recruited to enhance investments, technology transfers, and professionalism 
in commercialization. The institute will cooperate with Israel’s Yeda and other experts 
capable of identifying and commercializing outstanding technology, so as to successfully 
establish technology in-kind investment companies and enhance its competence in 
technology transfers.
Venture support will be expanded to create more jobs for the general public at the 
national level. Through the Open Venture Lab, KAIST will 1) provide a free space for 
business startups (including office and internet infrastructure) and for anyone who 
wishes to start a venture during a certain period of time, 2) have its faculty provide basic 
training, consulting, and mentoring, and 3) develop a nationwide success model in 
cooperation with related companies and government agencies. Through the K-Industry 
4.0, KAIST will 1) enhance national competitiveness and maximize job creation through 
the growth of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 2) establish the SME 
4.0 production innovation platform to facilitate small quantity batch production by 
integrating manufacturing and ICT, such as cloud, AI, and big data, and 3) establish the 
20•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityE-School* control tower to produce future leaders of the fourth industrial revolution.  
[*Fostering of transdisciplinary talent with focus on Employment, Entrepreneurship, and 
E-learning]
Furthermore, KAIST will organize startup idea contests and provide seed capital. 1) The 
general public will be invited to submit startup ideas, and winners will receive partial 
funding. 2) The winners will have a space assigned in the Open Venture Lab and receive 
priority in accessing related services.
To boost technology investment and establish university-industry cooperative clusters, 
KAIST will undertake the following. First, it will promote the establishment of technology 
in-kind investment companies. For this purpose, 1) promising technology and companies 
will be identified through investment council meetings and external cooperation, and 
investment types will be diversified into joint ventures, investment in existing companies, 
and investment in new startups. 2) Investment companies will be selected and managed 
based on a pre-assessment of their potential for success (technical, market validation). 
Second, KAIST will expand technology transfers and commercialization through strategic 
creation of intellectual property. 1) It will actively respond to infringement of rights, 
including the establishment of strategies for patent protection, royalty negotiations, and 
filing of lawsuits. 2) IP protection and funding will be strengthened through strategic 
cooperation with leading law firms and the Korean Intellectual Property Office. IP 
professionalism and efficiency will be enhanced based on cooperation with local/
international patent offices, and international technology transfers will be expanded. 
Third, KAIST will promote 3) investments in incubating companies (KAIST startups, 
technology transfer companies). For this purpose, it will 1) provide strategic consulting 
and cooperate with investment companies, and 2) organize IR forums to attract 
accelerators, VCs, and CVCs. Fourth, KAIST will establish university-industry cooperative 
clusters by sharing its research achievements with small- and medium-sized enterprises 
in Seongnam through the K-GLOBAL project and support them in attaining world-class 
standards. Fifth, KAIST will develop new criteria in selecting incubating companies, and 
focus on fostering technology-based startups with potential for growth in the age of the 
fourth industrial revolution. Lastly, it will launch regional cooperation projects based on 
regional and national expansion of entrepreneurial education through MOOCs. 
21
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Short-Term Action Strategies for Globalization Innovation
KAIST will acquire outstanding international faculty, students, and researchers by 2021. It 
will draw up and implement measures to enhance the linguistic skills of staff members 
through customized education in the form of diversified language programs (hours, type, 
contents). New student exchange programs such as research student exchanges and 
visiting student programs (for-credit courses) will be developed. International members 
will be able to adjust more rapidly with the implementation of cultural integration policies, 
including cultural experiences by learning the Korean language, expanding temple 
stay programs, and promoting the KAIST ONE program. Various improvements will be 
made for the welfare of international members. Children of international faculty will be 
given additional educational subsidies at Taejon Christian International School (TCIS), 
and KAIST professors will be invited to participate in the TCIS Lecture Series. The KAIST 
Daycare Center will increase its capacity, and the international food corner in school 
cafeterias will be gradually expanded. Outstanding teams in Humanity/Leadership II 
under the Global Leadership Activity (GLA) program will have the opportunity to visit 
Southeast Asia. With the launch of the KAIST Global Leadership Center (KGLC) Fellow 
program, up to ten leadership experts will be appointed to serve as mentors to students. 
KAIST will establish overseas campuses. A research institute will open under the support 
of the Chongqing Municipal Government, and ELK (KAIST alumni company) will provide 
overseas training opportunities to ten undergraduate students by sending them to Silicon 
Valley companies, research institutes, and universities in the United States.
KAIST will take the initiative in global research. As an international research hub, 
the institute will invite world-leading researchers and organize joint research and 
international symposiums. It will engage in more active exchange with strategic partner 
universities in the form of student exchange, joint research, and seed funds for exchange 
programs. 
Finally, KAIST will transfer its development model to developing countries. It will expand 
overseas volunteer activities and accelerate efforts in the establishment of the Kenya 
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology. 
22•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityShort-Term Action Strategies for Future Strategy Innovation 
First, funds must be acquired to achieve VISION 2031. 
In order to raise funds, KAIST will begin a freshmen donation campaign for freshmen to 
experience becoming donors with a voluntary donation of KRW 10,000 until graduation. 
In addition, alumni fundraising activities will be encouraged at major events such as 
homecoming day and through the alumni management system. General fundraising 
activities will be conducted at the events for sponsors and students’ parents. 
Greater appreciation will be shown to major donors. The KAIST Science Culture Park 
(space to commemorate donors) will be built, and regular health checkup services will 
be provided for donors. 
KAIST will maximize technological value in overseas markets by cooperating with foreign 
institutes (e.g. Weizmann Institute of Science’s Yeda, Yozma Group, etc.) and utilizing the 
Global Industry-University Cooperation Research Center (GCORE).
Future science and technology shares will be promoted through professional asset 
management. Additional funds will be acquired for government innovation strategies, 
and VISION 2031 crowdfunding campaign will be launched.
Second, KAIST will place more emphasis on HR management. It will expand new faculty 
and staff recruitment, and allocate appropriate quotas. 
For this purpose, KAIST will undergo a reorganization. The KAIST Research Center for 
Future Strategy will be established, and the organization will adopt a research center-
oriented matrix structure. 
Policies must be improved as well. Legal and institutional regulations should be reviewed 
to enhance the efficiency of education, research, technology commercialization, and 
globalization activities. 
Third, KAIST will strengthen cooperation with the government. It will develop 
differentiated items for regional council members and standing committee members, 
and arrange various activities such as breakfast meetings, policy forums, guest lectures, 
and event invitations.
23
VISION 2031 Executive Summary
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Number of  Faculty Members /Students and Budgeting
Setting specific quantitative goals for the number of faculty members, number of 
students, and expected budget to fulfill VISION 2031.
Target  
Index2018 2019 2020 2021 2026 2031Target 
Rate
(~2021)Target 
Rate
(2021~)
HRSize of faculty 676 715 757 801 998 1,243 5.80% 4.50%
Number of 
students11,654 11,771 11,889 12,008 12,620 13,264 1.00% 1.00%
Student/  
faculty ratio17.24 16.46 15.71 15.00 12.65 10.67
FRTotal budget 
(million won)858,600 927.288 1,001,471 1,081,589 1,481,870 2,030,291 8.00% 6.50%
Government 
contributions212,004 228,964 247,281 267,064 401,573 603,827 8.00% 8.50%
Research fund 382,655 418,357 457,389 500,064 734,758 1,079,600 9.33% 8.00%
Other 263,941 279,967 296,800 314,461 345,540 346,863
※ Assumptions
1. The number of professors will increase to 1,200 by 2031, achieving economies of scale.
2. The student/faculty ratio will decrease to 10 by 2031.
3.   Budget will reach 1 trillion won in 2021 and 2 trillion won in 2031. The budget per professor will 
be about 1.6 billion won.
4.   The proportion of government contributions to the total budget will be 25% by 2021 and 30% by 
2031.
5.   Category of “Other” includes royalty incentives and earnings from operation of the fund. The 
fund’s target is 2 trillion won by 2031.
24•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe key to realizing VISION 2031 is securing sufficient financial resources. Therefore, 
continuous efforts are needed to raise research funding and government contributions.  
A great number of donations are necessary, especially from alumni associations.
Note
The goal under VISION 2031 is to have 1,200 faculty members and a two trillion won 
budget by 2031. The annual quantitative goals serve as rough guidelines in working 
towards the final goals. Attaining quantitative goals (or conversely not meeting the 
goals to do so) is not an indicator of success or failure of VISION 2031.
ⅠOverview
1. KAIST Grand VISION 2031
2. Presentation of Objective Goals
3.   Attainment of Goals through  
Five Key Innovations 
4. Sustainability of Strategies
5.   KAIST ’s Development and  
Achievements
6. Reflection
7.   Integrated Model of  
Five Key Innovation StrategiesMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

27
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!1. KAIST Grand VISION 2031
Article 1 of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology Act states that the 
institute was established “to train highly qualified scientific and engineering specialists 
with profound theoretical background and practical application ability in the fields of 
science and technology required for developing industries, in order to conduct mid- and 
long-term research and development implemented in accordance with the national 
policies, and basic and applied research for developing the potential of national science 
and technology, and further to provide other research institutes, industrial sectors, etc. 
with research support.”
For nearly five decades since its foundation in 1971, KAIST has worked hard to fulfill its 
founding purpose in education, research, and technology commercialization. As a result, 
it has joined the ranks of world-class universities in a relatively short period. 
However, the next fifty years will present unprecedented challenges. The fourth industrial 
revolution, accompanied by innovation in science and technology, will have an impact 
on economies, societies, and cultures. Against this backdrop, KAIST must define a new 
vision to overcome challenges caused by such changes, so as to continue fulfilling its 
founding purpose.
VISION 2031 will act as a blueprint, propelling the institute to higher levels as it heads 
towards its 50th anniversary in 2031. Similar to how the Terman Report served KAIST in 
its early years starting from 1971, the new vision will be the cornerstone of success in the 
future.
KAIST’s mission is the key driving force behind VISION 2031. As a global value-creative 
leading university, KAIST endeavors to be the university of science and technology 
innovation for humanity’s happiness and prosperity.
28•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityAs a Global Value-Creative Leading University, 
KAIST endeavors to be The University of 
Science & Technology Innovation for Humanity’s 
Happiness and Prosperity.VISION 2031
KAIST Grand VISION 2031
Strategy: forMission: Global Value-Creative
The University of Science
& Technology InnovationLeading University
Humanity's Happiness
and Prosperity
KAIST Grand VISION 2031
Under VISION 2031, “humanity’s happiness and prosperity” is presented as a practical, 
strategic goal of a “global value-creative leading university .” KAIST will develop into a 
leading university that creates global value through “science and technology innovation.”
Here, in the pursuit of “humanity’s happiness and prosperity” KAIST must not only seek 
economic value, but also contribute to the advancement of humanity by taking into 
account humanistic and psychological aspects. The vision is reflected in each of the 
following three keywords: “humanity,” “happiness,” and “prosperity.” 
First, in relation to the keyword “humanity,” the mission of KAIST at the time of its 
establishment in 1971 was the development of science and technology as well as 
29
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!industries. Today, it should exert efforts to achieve universal values that extend beyond 
Korea, in order to benefit humanity as a whole. Second, “happiness” is a concept that 
not only covers social value, but also encompasses sustainability, dignified living, and 
qualitative satisfaction. Social entrepreneurship and the launching of social enterprises 
are also included. Third, “prosperity” is the enjoyment of life, surpassing basic needs in 
terms of psychological, economic, and material fulfillment.
“Science and technology innovation” implies that KAIST will work to achieve happiness 
and prosperity for humanity through innovation in science and technology, in line with 
its founding purpose. In particular, the use of “the university” instead of “a university” 
reflects KAIST’s determination to become “the best, first, and only one” in creating value 
for humanity.
VISION 2031 of the Four Divisions
VISION 2031 was developed based on voluntary, active participation by its key members 
and stakeholders: faculty, students, staff, and alumni. More than 100 faculty members 
volunteered to serve in the four divisions of VISION 2031 Committee. A large-scale 
survey was conducted to collect feedback from students, alumni, and staff. The university 
management, including the President, and VISION 2031 Committee organized several 
meetings over the past eight months to achieve a consensus among all members. These 
efforts led to the completion of  VISION 2031.
VISION 2031 comprises four key innovation strategies and five strategies, including 
the principles of future strategies, aimed at integrating the different areas. KAIST will 
provide education to foster creative leaders who enhance the social value of science 
and technology, conduct research and development to overcome challenges for 
humanity, emerge as an entrepreneurial university that creates value through technology 
commercialization, and play the role of “World Bridge KAIST” through globalization. The 
core of the four key innovation strategies lies in the goal of becoming a university that 
pursues “what” as well as “how.” 
30•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityVISION 2031 Framework
The framework for the integration of innovation strategies across divisions is as follows.
The fundamental principles for optimal achievement of VISION 2031 are as follows. The 
C³, comprising the core values of “challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring,” serves as the 
basic spirit of VISION 2031. KAIST seeks to build competence to conduct research that 
places equal emphasis on “what” and “how.” Innovation strategies are integrated to 
establish a virtuous self-reinforcing system, in order to guarantee sustainability of the 
vision. 
Based on the above fundamental principles, the five innovation strategies complement 
one another in their respective roles. Action strategies must be carried out to achieve 
the goal of becoming “the university of science and technology innovation for humanity’s 
happiness and prosperity,” Ultimately, KAIST has to fulfill its mission of emerging as a 
“global value-creative leading university.”Making a Beautiful Difference beyond Imagination!
A Global Value-Creative Leading University
Education Innovation
Fostering Social-
Value Enhancing 
Creative-LeadersGlobalization Innovation
World Bridge KAIST by 2031
Technology Commercialization Innovation
Tech.-Value Creating Entrepreneurial U.
Future Strategy Innovation
How + What, Virtuous self-reinforcing system
KAIST C3 Spirits: Challenge, Creativity, CaringResearch Innovation
Research on 
Challenging Problems 
faced by Humanity & 
CountriesThe University of Science & Technology Innovation
for Humanity's Happiness and Prosperity
31
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!VISION 2031 Slogan
The slogan of  VISION 2031 was developed to convey the spirit behind the vision in a way 
that can be easily understood by all.
The final slogan was generated based on the best slogan selected from ideas proposed 
by students and faculty of KAIST.
VISION 2031 slogan relies on affective wording to convey the idea of “human-centered 
innovation” that can be understood by everyone.
The slogan contains the core values of “challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring.” “Difference” 
represents a love for challenges and the capability to overcome adversity, while “Beyond 
Imagination” means the spirit of creativity. “Beautiful” represents a caring spirit which 
encompasses the capacity to respect others, individual morality, and social responsibility. 
KAIST’s Reason for Existence
KAIST’s reason for existence is to be a global value-creative leading university that 
contributes to the advancement of humanity through S&T research and education 
based on the core values of “challenge,” “creativity,” and “caring.” The goal of KAIST at 
the time of its establishment in 1971 was to “foster elite human resources in science 
and technology.” Over the past 47 years, KAIST has fostered talent to drive the nation’s 
industrial development, and to serve as key research personnel in universities and 
research institutes. 
The Terman Report predicted that KAIST would have to take a new path in 2000. 
Accordingly, KAIST must set a new vision and a goal for the future. For instance, in the Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
32•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universityfuture, only a minority of top schools that create advanced knowledge will survive, and 
most education are expected to be in the form of online teaching, i.e. MOOCs. To play a 
pioneering role amidst such changes, KAIST must aim to join the top 1% of knowledge-
creating and knowledge convergence institutes. Building on its past achievements, the 
institute must expand its vision to create and utilize science and technology knowledge 
not only for national development, but also for the benefit of humanity.
In general, the  mission of top research-oriented universities is to contribute to the nation 
and humanity through research and education based on science and technology. MIT’s 
mission is “to advance knowledge and educate students in science, technology, and other 
areas of scholarship that will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st century.” 
Nanyang Technological University’s mission is to be “a great global university founded 
on science and technology, nurturing leaders through research and education abroad in 
diverse disciplines.”
It is important to determine the new role of universities and to devise measures to 
prepare for the future. Recent paradigm shifts in society and technology innovation have 
raised public expectations of universities. Instead of being confined to traditional roles 
in education and research, universities should contribute to the nation’s sustainable 
development by establishing new goals for the future, and employing innovative methods 
in teaching and research.
In order to achieve these goals, KAIST must make the transition from follower to first-
mover, identify new issues that have an impact on science and technology instead of 
simply solving given problems (From HOW to WHAT), and establish new visions and 
strategies for the year 2031 (WHAT FUTURE 2031). KAIST’s new vision for mid/long-term 
development reflects its determination to contribute to the advancement of humanity 
through education and research in science and technology. As such, VISION 2031 Report 
is expected to be an effective follow-up to the Terman Report. 
33
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!2. Presentation of Objective Goals
Goal of VISION 2031
The key to the success of VISION 2031 lies in the commitment and self-actualization of all 
members of KAIST. In addition to quantitative results in academic publications, patents, 
and technology transfers, KAIST should set qualitative and strategic criteria to evaluate 
the impact of its innovative pursuits and knowledge creation. 
While qualitative and strategic goals are discussed throughout the report, this section 
focuses on an objective summary measure. KAIST seeks to become one of the world’s 
top 10 universities in the world university rankings by the year 2031. This goal will act as a 
specific measurable indicator of the success of  VISION 2031. 
To assess the success of VISION 2031, KAIST has set an objective goal that serves as a 
specific, measurable endpoint.
Objective Goal
The institute’s performance in world university rankings can be used to verify whether the 
objective goal has been fulfilled. It is one of the measurable indicators used to evaluate 
the attainment of goals presented in VISION 2031. To Become One of the World’s Top 10 Universities by 2031
34•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University3. Attainment of Goals through Five Key Innovations
KAIST has presented five key innovations, namely, education, research, technology 
commercialization, globalization, and future strategy. These five divisions must be 
integrated for synergy, and serve as a driving force in achieving KAIST’s grand vision.
Education Innovation: “Fostering Social-Value Enhancing 
Creative-Leaders”
Science and technology innovation is increasingly being accelerated and having significant 
impacts on our society, life, and environment as well as the industry and economy. 
Scientists and engineers are also confronted with many social issues and problems. We 
therefore will nurture our students to have not only technical capabilities and creativity but 
also cognitive excellence, willingness to take on new challenges, the capacity to overcome 
adversity, and self-directedness. We will accordingly transform or improve teaching and 
learning methods, learning infrastructure, curricula, and extracurricular programs.
Research Innovation: “Research on Challenging Problems Faced by 
Humanity & Countries”
As a research-oriented university and pioneering leader of future society and industry, 
KAIST has been pursuing innovation through the discovery of new areas in collaborative 
research and novel technology development. KAIST will continue this endeavor to prepare 
for the era of the fourth industrial revolution. 
The core of the KAIST research innovation lies in the paradigm shift from a follower to a 
first-mover, and from conducting short-term quantitative output-oriented research to 
creative, venture, transformational, and transdisciplinary research.
The expansion of creative, venture, and transdisciplinary research through research 
innovation will support the vision of “Research on Challenging Problems Faced by 
Humanity & Countries.” 
35
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Technology Commercialization Innovation: “Technology-Value 
Creating Entrepreneurial University”
The term “value-creating” is a concept that includes human resources, knowledge, 
economic value, and social value. It reflects a determination to take the lead in changing 
and influencing the world. An “entrepreneurial university” creates such value. KAIST will 
create value in response to the needs of the nation and society, strengthen technology 
commercialization based on past activities in education and research, and maximize 
its social impact in this process. In other words, it will mature into an entrepreneurial 
university based on its foundation as a research-oriented university. 
Globalization Innovation: “World Bridge KAIST by 2031”
KAIST seeks to globalize its education and research achievements by 2031, and serves as 
a bridge for educational and research institutes in Korea and the world. More specifically, 
it will attract outstanding international faculty/students/researchers and enhance its 
global reputation in research. It will organize international consortiums and promote 
global commercialization of outstanding research, thereby enhancing the international 
standing of KAIST members. Through this process, KAIST will create new growth engines 
for Korea and the world, and become a cradle of creativity.
Future Strategy Innovation: “A University that Pursues WHAT and 
HOW”
Under VISION 2031, KAIST will become a true pioneer by shifting its focus from “how” 
research defined by others into problem-defining “what” research, and thereby establish 
future visions and strategies for the age of uncertainty. This is the key approach to the 
integration of the four innovation strategies. By operating think tank groups for innovation 
in future strategy, KAIST will conduct long-term monitoring of its commitment to the 
implementation of  VISION 2031, and provide the necessary feedback. 
  
36•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University4.   Sustainability of Strategies  
–Follow-Up to Existing Long-Term Strategy Report 
VISION 2031 is built on KAIST’s achievements and experiences accumulated over the 
past fifty years. The proposed strategies are aimed at creating a better future based on 
heritage and continuity, not a complete abandonment of tradition. As such, VISION 2031 
highlights notable results from KAIST’s strategy reports.
Terman Report (Dec. 1970)
According to the Terman Report, prepared with the support of the United States Agency 
for International Development (USAID), the foundation of the Korea Advanced Institute 
of Science (KAIS) was considered the only effective solution to the issue of boosting the 
Korean economy. KAIS, if successfully launched, was expected to grow into a world-
class educational institute by the 21st century and to serve as a role model for similar 
universities outside Korea.
KAIST Long-Term Development Strategies 1994-2005 (Oct. 1994)
The KAIST Long-term Development Strategies 1994-2005, laid out in 1994, outlined a 
vision for KAIST to become a world-class research-oriented educational institute. Three 
goals were set under this vision. First, KAIST would join the world’s top 10 in academic 
excellence. Second, it would foster creative talent equipped with leadership qualities. Third, 
it would enhance global competitiveness through innovation in science and technology. 
VISION 2010 (July 2004)
KAIST’s vision in VISION 2010, prepared in 2004, was to become a world-class research-
oriented university in science and engineering. Accordingly, three goals were set. First, 
KAIST would achieve world-class academic excellence. Second, it would foster creative 
talent with global competitiveness. Third, it would derive meaningful results from national 
strategic research in science and technology. 
37
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!VISION 2005 (April 2005) 
The KAIST VISION 2005 aimed to produce the “First, Best, the World in KAIST.” 
Accordingly, the goals were to recruit top-class faculty members, develop a top-class 
curriculum, and build a top-class infrastructure.
KAIST Five-Year Development Plan (Feb. 2007)
The word “humanity” was first seen in the KAIST Five-Year Development Plan, 
established in 2007. The vision outlined in this plan was to solve major issues faced by 
humanity and to create new food resources. With a dream of becoming the world’s best 
science and technology university, KAIST aimed to develop the world’s best educational 
system and transdisciplinary research system, pursue management innovation based 
on autonomy and responsibility, and attain world-class standards in openness and 
cooperation. 
VISION 2025 (June 2011)
KAIST’s vision in VISION 2025, prepared in 2011, was to create knowledge for humanity by 
becoming a world-leading university in science and technology. The goals were to pave 
the way for a better future through holistic, transdisciplinary education, conduct creative 
research to drive innovation, develop through harmony and cooperation, and achieve 
sustainable growth.
KAIST Mid/Long-Term Development Plan (Oct. 2013)
The most recent KAIST Mid/Long-term Development Plan reflects KAIST’s determination 
to become a world-class university. Under the vision of becoming the world-leading 
epicenter of science and technology, KAIST planned to train transdisciplinary talent who 
possess academic excellence and creativity, and to lead the knowledge-based, creative 
economy as a global research-oriented university. It also sought to build a global campus 
based on sharing and cooperation. 
38•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityKAIST Core Values Report (April 2014) 
In the 2014 KAIST Core Values Report, “creativity” and “challenge” were selected as 
KAIST’s core values. 
5. KAIST’s Development and Achievements
This section reviews KAIST’s fifty-year history and past achievements, and presents new 
educational and research directions for the next fifty years. 
KAIST‘s Development
Founded in 1971 with funding from the United States, KAIST has developed over the years 
into a world-class university.
< History of KAIST  >
Year History
1969Report on “establishment of new applied science and technology graduate 
school in Korea” submitted to US/AID
1970Proposal submitted for “establishment of graduate school specializing in science 
and engineering” 
Loan of six million dollars offered by US/AID 
August 1970 Enactment of Korea Advanced Institute of Science (KAIS) Act 
December 1970 Development of Terman Report (by US/AID investigators who 
assessed the feasibility of the establishment of KAIS) 
1971 February 16, 1971 Establishment of Korea Advanced Institute of Science (KAIS) 
1973 March 1973 First matriculation 
1975 August 1975 First commencement for master’s degrees
1978 August 1978 First commencement for doctoral degrees
1990 February 1990 First commencement for bachelor’s degrees
39
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Year History
1996 October 1996 Establishment of Korea Institute of Advanced Study (KIAS) 
2003 July 2003 Change in official title from “director” to “president” 
2004 May 2004 Establishment of National NanoFab Center (NNFC)
2009February 2009 Merger with Korea Science Academy 
March 2009 Acquisition of Information and Communications University 
2010 May 2010 Completion of KAIST Institute (KI) Building 
2018February 2018 Degrees conferred to 2,736 graduates 
(644 Ph.Ds, 1,352 master’s, and 740 bachelor’s)
At present, KAIST has produced 61,932 graduates (17,399 bachelor’s, 31,913 master’s, 
12,620 Ph.Ds), who have become leaders of industries, universities, research institutes, 
and government agencies. As of March 1, 2018, KAIST’s graduates account for 23% of 
leadership positions in local industries, universities, and research institutes. About 45% 
of graduates are serving in industry, with the half in conglomerates, and the remaining 
half in ventures and small/medium-sized enterprises. In addition, about 20% of KAIST 
graduates who have joined venture capital firms are serving as CEOs. As of February 
2018, KAIST has 10,381 enrolled students (3,756 undergraduates, 2,762 master’s, 1,209 
integrated MS/Ph.D., 2,654 Ph.D. students).
KAIST’s Key Achievements
World University Rankings (Thomson Reuters, QS)
According to the World University Rankings released by QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) on 
June 8, 2017, KAIST ranks 41st in the world. QS is a British company that has provided 
rankings of the world’s top universities since 1994. More than 3,800 institutions around 
the world were considered based on six indicators: academic reputation (40%), employer 
reputation (10%), faculty student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), international 
students (5%), and international faculty (5%). 
40•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityQS World University Rankings 2017
Rank University Country Trend
1 MIT US ‐
2 Stanford University US ‐
3 Harvard University US ‐
4 Caltech US ▲1
5 University of Cambridge UK ▼1
6 University of Oxford UK ‐
7 UCL UK ‐
8 Imperial College London UK ▲1
9 University of Chicago US ▲1
10 Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich Switzerland ▼2
41 KAIST Korea ▲5
 Source: QS 
KAIST, which celebrates its 47th anniversary this year, ranked third in the QS Top 50 
Under 50 2017/2018, a list of fast-rising young universities compiled by Quacquarelli 
Symonds (QS).
QS Top 50 Under 50
Rank University (Year of Establishment) Country
1 Nanyang Technological University (1991) Singapore
2 Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (1991) Hong Kong
3 KAIST (1971) Korea
4 City University of Hong Kong (1984) Hong Kong
5 POSTECH (1986) Korea
6 Hong Kong Polytechnic University (1994) Hong Kong
7 Aalto University (2010) Finland
8 University of Technology Sydney (1988) Australia
Source: QS
41
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!In 2017, for the second consecutive year, KAIST ranked first in Reuters’ annual ranking 
of Asia Pacific’s Most Innovative Universities, a list compiled by Reuters and Clarivate 
Analytics of the 75 most innovative universities in the Asia Pacific Region. Between 2010 
and 2015, KAIST obtained 923 patents, which is the highest number among the top 75 
universities. About 91.7% of basic research conducted at KAIST has had a significant 
influence on commercial R&D activities. This implies that patents owned by KAIST were 
frequently cited in academic papers and publications by non-affiliated researchers.  
Specific Achievements–Review of KAIST’s World-Class Research
1. Father of the Internet in Korea
Professor Kilnam Chon, known as the father of the internet in Korea, played a key role in 
establishing internet connectivity in Korea on May 15, 1982. Thanks to Professor Chon’s 
efforts, Korea became the second country in the world to be connected, following the 
United States.
< Photo of Professor Kilnam Chon  >

42•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University2. Launch of Korea’s First Artificial Satellite
Satellite Technology Research 
Center (SaTReC) is a KAIST-
affiliated research center that 
conducts satellite research 
and fosters professionals  
in space technology. Since 
its establishment in August 
1989, it has enjoyed success 
in the launch of independently 
developed satellites: KITSAT-1 in August 1992, KITSAT-2 in 1993, and KITSAT-3 in 1999. 
3. Chemistry Professor Ryong Ryoo Awarded the Breck Award (2010)
Professor Ryong Ryoo from the 
Department of Chemistry and a 
pioneer of mesoporous zeolite, 
received the Breck Award in 
2010 from the International 
Zeolite Association. The Breck 
Award is often referred to as the 
Nobel Prize in zeolites. Using 
nanoporous materials with a 
pore diameter of 2 to 50nm, he 
developed a nanocasting method and synthesized an ordered mesoporous carbon known 
as CMK, which stands for carbon mesostructured by KAIST. His creative research in the 
design of functional porous materials is expected to have diverse applications for highly 
efficient catalysts in chemistry, thereby raising the quality of human life.
4. Paper Selected as Lead Article in Nature
Professor Sang Yup Lee of the Department of Biochemical Engineering published a 
paper titled “Microbial Production of Short-chain Alkanes” as the lead article in the 
< KAIST Satellite Technology Research Center  >
< Photo of Professor Ryong Ryoo  >
43
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!October 2013 issue of Nature. The study proposed a 
platform for the production of various biocompounds 
such as biofuel and biodegradable plastic. The 
technology can be utilized to convert renewable 
biomass to alcohol and biodiesel, which can serve as 
biofuel, surfactants, and lubricants.
5. Development of Humanoid Robot Hubo
Professor Jun-Ho Oh’s team developed the humanoid 
robot Hubo, which won the 2015 Robotics Challenges 
hosted by the United States Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The team received two million dollars in prize 
money, and earned recognition for their advanced technology. To date, Hubo is the 
only humanoid robot to have achieved commercial success. Twenty Hubos have been 
exported for research purposes to the United States, Singapore, and China.  
< Professor Lee’s paper in Nature  >
< Humanoid Robot Hubo, 2015 Robotics Challenges  >
44•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityAlumni Statistics: Role in Korea’s Economy and Academia 
KAIST has generated 12,620 Ph.Ds, 31,913 master’s, and 17,399 bachelor’s since its 
foundation in 1971. The institute had two Ph.D. graduates in 1978. This increased to 100 
in 1987, 200 in 1994, 400 in 2000, 522 in 2015, and 644 in 2018. The 10,000th Ph.D. degree 
was conferred in 2015.
According to data on 7,400 Ph.D. graduates provided by the KAIST Alumni as of January 
2015, 3,300 graduates, or 45%, were working in industry. 2,300 (31%) were working in 
local/overseas universities, 1,600 (21%) in government agencies/government-funded 
research institutes/public institutes, and 200 (3%) in overseas institutes. Out of the 3,300 
graduates working in industry, 48% belonged to the top 10 major companies, and 52% 
had joined venture capital firms or mid-sized companies. 
KAIST has had a socioeconomic impact through the fostering of science and technology 
professionals. According to the Korea Productivity Center’s “Analysis of KAIST’s 
Achievements and Value for the Past 45 Years” in 2015, the economic value of KAIST’s 
academic papers and patents amounted to 42.6 billion won and 322.2 billion won, 
respectively.
Since its establishment in 1971, KAIST has received 2.9 trillion won in government 
investment, and 3 trillion won in government-commissioned research. Companies 
founded by KAIST graduates recorded 13.6 trillion won in sales, indicating a high ROI. This 
demonstrates that the establishment of KAIST has contributed to national development.
1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020600
500
400
300
200
100
0< KAIST’s Alumni Statistics  >
45
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!KAIST as a Benchmark: Japan’s JAIST, Hong Kong’s HKUST, 
Singapore’s Nanyang Technological University, Uruguay’s University 
of the Republic, Azerbaijan’s Azerbaijan Technical University, and 
others
KAIST’s model of university establishment has spread overseas to universities such as 
the Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST), Hong Kong University 
of Science and Technology (HKUST), Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Uruguay’s 
University of the Republic, and Azerbaijan’s Azerbaijan Technical University. 
In the mid-1990s, the founding committee of HKUST visited KAIST’s Hongneung campus. 
KAIST served as a benchmark in terms of the management of a research-oriented 
university and incentive policies for researchers. KAIST was the perfect role model for 
those seeking to build a national university of science and technology. JAIST, Japan’s first 
postgraduate university without undergraduate courses, was modeled after KAIST and 
established in 1990. It offers various programs of advanced research and development in 
science and technology. In 2014–2015, KAIST successfully completed a feasibility study 
for the establishment of the Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology. Similar 
to how the United States supported the establishment of KAIST in 1971, the Korean 
government can utilize this experience in transferring KAIST’s education and research 
model to developing countries in Africa. 
6. Reflection
KAIST has seen continuous growth over the past fifty years and has been recognized as 
one of the best emerging universities and the most innovative university in the region. 
However, there is no exception to the saying, “Failure is the mother of success.” There 
have been times when KAIST could have done better. True innovation is achieved not by 
concealing failed attempts but by learning from past mistakes. Based on this spirit, KAIST 
seeks to reflect on its achievements made in the past half-century. 
46•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University1.   Need to Re-establish VISION and Strategies as a Research-oriented 
University with a Focus on WHAT
KAIST must re-establish its vision and strategies as a research-oriented university with a 
focus on “what” over risk-free pursuits. Over the years, the university has seen significant 
growth in the number of publications and patents. It has enjoyed research success, 
including the development of Hubo and the launch of KITSAT-1. However, there is a need 
to reflect on its tendency to avoid risks in research, and to follow rather than to lead. So 
far, KAIST has followed the paths of others through HOW-focused research, and has not 
taken the initiative in driving technological innovations. In the future, it should undertake 
WHAT-focused research and present directions for future societies, and refrain from 
overemphasizing quantitative indicators in the evaluation of faculty and students. 
2. Efforts in Qualitative Development
With recent emphasis on qualitative evaluation, impact factor has emerged as an 
important criterion in determining the quality of research. According to the Web of 
Science, the 2,711 papers published by KAIST from 2016 to 2017 had an h-index of 21 and 
2.08 citations per item on average. In the same period, Nanyang Technological University 
published a total of 9,362 papers, with an h-index of 48 and 2.75 average citations. This is 
qualitatively and quantitatively superior to the publication record of KAIST. 
KAIST’s international collaboration has remained largely stagnant since 2012. While 
there has been an overall quantitative improvement in research, outputs belonging to the 
top 10% in impact factor have not improved. The number of papers cited in patents has 
continuously decreased since 2012. As such, more effort must be made to qualitatively 
improve research. 
3. Instilling a Sense of Duty to the Nation
KAIST faculty members have a relatively strong sense of duty for contributing to the 
development of science and technology. This sense of duty must serve as a driving 
force for education and research. For instance, KAIST can undertake research in areas 
showing promise in creating public value, even if they make only limited contributions to 
economic growth.
47
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!4.   Contribution to Socioeconomic Development through the Fostering of 
Female Scientists
KAIST’s female faculty accounts for 10.4% (66 persons) out of the total (636 persons), 
which is the highest among science and engineering universities in Korea. It also has 
the highest percentage of female assistant professors in Korea at 24.8% (32 persons out 
of a total of 129). This means that KAIST has more new female faculty members than 
any other university in Korea. As of 2017, the total number of female students enrolled at 
KAIST was 2,008 (742 undergraduates, 649 master’s, and 617 Ph.D. students). Female 
students account for 21.8% of master’s students (male and female students combined 
is 2,973), and 16.9% of Ph.D. students (male and female students combined is 3,645), 
making KAIST the cradle of female research talent in Korea. However, there is still room 
for improvement for increasing the number of female faculty members and students. In 
the age of the fourth industrial revolution, KAIST must continue to play a pivotal role in the 
training of female talent by supporting emerging female scientists and organizing female 
leadership training programs.
5.   Value Creation through Technology in-kind Investment Companies and 
Innovative Startups
The role of KAIST has been mostly limited to research and development in science 
and technology so far. It is now time to create new economic value through research 
and development business (R&DB). KAIST owns two subsidiaries and nine investment 
companies, amounting to a total of 11 companies as of late 2016. There is still room for 
improvement, and more active fostering is needed. 
6. Need to Enhance Social Value Awareness among Students
The social bias against KAIST students is that they tend to be individualistic and lack 
the capacity for cooperation. Regardless of how much truth there is to this bias, KAIST 
has to improve its education and research culture to change public perception. It must 
exert efforts to produce tangible results that have an impact on society, and expand the 
boundaries of classroom learning to include literacy education in the humanities and 
liberal arts. 
48•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University7. Need to Enhance Globalization Standards
While KAIST has exerted significant efforts in globalization, it has fared poorly in world 
university rankings compared to its competitors. More active globalization will build 
a stronger global presence through international joint research and international 
exchange. These activities will have a positive influence on KAIST’s standing in world 
university rankings. As such, more practical efforts are required for globalization. KAIST 
must transform itself to a fully bilingual campus instead of simply offering English 
lectures or increasing the use of English. This must be accompanied by enhanced global 
competence among faculty and staff, and the offering of bilingual administrative services. 
Moreover, attractive awards and incentives are needed to attain globalization goals.
8. Implications of HKUST Outperforming KAIST
HKUST, established with KAIST as a benchmark, now outperforms KAIST in terms of 
research capacity and global rankings. The main reasons include HKUST’s use of English 
as the official language of instruction, its strategic location in the global business hub 
of Hong Kong, and the recruitment of outstanding faculty. It has attracted outstanding 
faculty by providing salaries and research infrastructure that meet the standards of 
world-class universities. The university has implemented strict policies to motivate 
faculty to consistently produce results. For instance, full-time professors face salary cuts 
for poor performance, and may receive lower salary than when they were first hired.
9. Need to Reflect on Advisors’ Role in Student Guidance 
Amidst the stiffer competition in research projects and academic publications, faculty 
at KAIST must reflect on whether they have devoted sufficient time and effort to 
student guidance. Faculty should serve in dissertation committees after reading and 
understanding submissions, maintain an appropriate faculty-to-student ratio, and 
invest time in student guidance to ensure students’ right to learn and improve their 
research capacity. They must also take the initiative to objectively examine how they have 
performed their duties as educators, teachers, and role models for students.
49
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!10. SWOT Analysis of KAIST
In preparation for the year 2031, it is now more important than ever for KAIST to perform 
a systematic analysis of its circumstances and competence based on reflection and self-
critique by KAIST members. 
A. Internal Strengths (S)
The greatest advantage of KAIST, as the top science and technology university in Korea, 
is that it has achieved sustainable growth under the goal of becoming a world-leading 
university. It has gained world-class research competitiveness and established leading 
faculty teaching models such as Education 4.0 and KOOC.
B. Internal Weaknesses (W)
A major weakness is that KAIST lacks research resources and infrastructure compared 
to global competitors due to limited investments, and has not been actively involved in 
transdisciplinary research or issue-solving research. Given its location in a non-English-
speaking country, it faces challenges in attracting outstanding international students 
and in globalization. Its relationship with the government has an influence on university 
operations, and this may act as a constraint dependence on circumstances.
C. External Opportunities (O)
An opportunity for KAIST is that the spotlight has turned to the role of universities in 
fostering talent to address changes of future society, such as the fourth industrial 
revolution, and conducting world-leading research. There is a higher social demand 
for creative, transdisciplinary talent, and the enhanced global reputation of KAIST has 
created more opportunities for global research and exchange. 
D. External Threats (T)
A major threat is the stiffer research competition with the increase in research 
investments by world-leading universities. KAIST has less funding compared to its 
competitors, which has resulted in weak educational infrastructure and a brain drain 
of faculty and students. The long-term development of KAIST is under threat as the 
expansion of government funds for research–oriented universities in science and 
technology is becoming more difficult and students tend to avoid science and engineering 
fields.
50•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University< SWOT Analysis of KAIST  >
Strengths Weaknesses
•  Science and technology university estab-  
lished under special law
•  Emphasis on “challenge” and “creativity” 
as the basic spirit of education and 
research 
•  High participation in establishment of 
strategies aimed at goal of becoming a 
“global value-creative leading university ” 
•  Continuous rise in global university 
rankings (international awareness)
•  Flexibility/professionalism to identify and 
concentrate on new, promising research 
areas
•  Outstanding research personnel and  
research excellence: World-class 
research competitiveness (of individual 
professors)
•  Strong foundation for creative transdisci-  
plinary education through non-departmental 
system
•  Establishment of leading faculty teaching 
model (Education 4.0, KOOC, etc.) 
•  Well-established alumni network in 
various sectors of society•  Weakened sense of duty to represent 
Korea in becoming a world-class  
university 
•  Preference for risk-averse research over 
risk-taking research 
•  Conducting how-oriented research to 
solve given problems rather than what-  
oriented research that defines new 
issues for humanity 
•  Limitations imposed by Korea’s 
emphasis on number of publications in 
research assessment 
•  Weak foundation for international  
research aimed at solving global issues
•  Less investment compared to world- 
leading universities
•  Tendency to assess all faculty (including 
international faculty) using the same 
criteria 
Opportunities Threats
•  Necessity of science and technology in 
responding to changes in society and 
global issues
•  Emphasis of role on university in leading 
the fourth industrial revolution
•  Shift in paradigm with emphasis on 
qualitative excellence in research and 
transdisciplinary education/research
•  Increased social demand for global 
talent with creative and transdisciplinary 
thinking
•  More opportunities for global research 
and exchange with KAIST’s growing 
global reputation•  Stiffer research competition with 
increase in research investments by 
world-leading universities
•  Decrease in government support as a 
matter of fairness for all universities 
•  Stiffer global competition in attracting 
outstanding personnel
•  Decrease in students caused by low 
childbirth, and avoidance of science and 
engineering
•  Lack of globalization-related social 
awareness and infrastructure within and 
outside the university 
•  Difficulties in attracting outstanding  
international students as a university in a 
non-English speaking country
51
Ⅰ Overview
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!7. Integrated Model of Five Key Innovation Strategies
The five key areas of innovation are education, research, technology commercialization, 
globalization, and future strategy. They are closely related, and they complement one 
another. Their integration into a single model will lead to the success of VISION 2031. The 
integrated model below provides a basic framework while revealing the interconnected 
relations of the five divisions under the common goal of becoming a university that 
focuses on “what” in addition to “how.” 
< VISION 2031 Framework  >
Making a Beautiful Difference beyond Imagination!
A Global Value-Creative Leading University
Education Innovation
Fostering Social-
Value Enhancing 
Creative-LeadersGlobalization Innovation
World Bridge KAIST by 2031
Technology Commercialization Innovation
Tech.-Value Creating Entrepreneurial U.
Future Strategy Innovation
How + What, Virtuous self-reinforcing system
KAIST C3 Spirits: Challenge, Creativity, CaringResearch Innovation
Research on 
Challenging Problems 
faced by Humanity & 
CountriesThe University of Science & Technology Innovation
for Humanity's Happiness and Prosperity

ⅡSurvey
1. Survey Outline 
2. Survey Results 
3. Key ResponsesMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

55
Ⅱ Survey
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!1. Survey Outline
The purpose of the survey was to collect feedback from members to establish strategies 
for VISION 2031. In order to effectively attain the goals in VISION 2031, all members of 
KAIST needed to participate actively and share their opinions. As such, the survey was 
conducted to obtain feedback from key members of KAIST. 
The subjects were students, alumni, faculty, and staff, and the survey was conducted 
from June 15 to July 23, 2017. The online survey, devised with Google Forms, was 
administered four times (first on June 19, second on June 29, third on July 10, and fourth 
on July 17) via e-mail.
In summary, the results highlighted the need to foster creative talent in science and 
technology to contribute to the development of humanity with consideration of KAIST’s 
purpose for the future, vision, challenges, priorities, and ideal qualities of individuals. Of 
particular interest was the change in purpose from fostering of human resources for 
industry to the fostering of research personnel in the fields of science and technology. 
Building on its excellence in science and technology, KAIST envisions becoming the think 
tank of Korea as well as a world-leading university. The consensus was that KAIST must 
attract outstanding faculty and acquire more funds to develop into one of the world’s top 
10 universities, and continue to nurture creative talent. The members also felt a sense of 
crisis due to the lack of shared vision. 
Based on the survey results, VISION 2031 presents innovation strategies that have been 
formulated with sufficient consideration of the feedback from KAIST members. 
56•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University2. Survey Results
The overall response rate was 3.5%, which translates to 1,715 out of 49,588 target 
respondents. By subject group, the response rate was 5.5% for students, 27.4% for 
faculty, 1.4% for alumni, and 15.3% for staff.
Survey Results (Response rate 3.5%)
Response rate
5.5% 
(654/11,920)Students
Staff
AlumniFaculty
Response rate
15.3% 
(297/1,944)Response rate
27.4% 
(295/1,077)
Response rate
1.4% 
(469/34,647)
Classification Students Faculty Alumni Staff Total
No. of invitees 11,920 1,077 34,647 1,944 49,588
No. of respondents 654 295 469 297 1,715
Response rate 5.5% 27.4% 1.4% 15.3% 3.5%
Percentage 38.1% 17.2% 27.4% 17.3% 100%(Unit: 1 Person)
57
Ⅱ Survey
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!3. Key Responses
KAIST’s future purpose: “Fostering research talent in science and 
technology”
1.  Fostering key talent for 
industry 
Future Goals12%
2.  Fostering research talent in 
science and technology 37%
3.  Science and technology 
development 25%
4. Fostering future leaders 24%
1. What should be the purpose of KAIST in 2031? 
❶ Fostering key talent for industry 
❷ Fostering research talent in science and technology 
❸ Science and technology development 
❹ Fostering future leaders 
❺ Other
58•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityKAIST’s future role: “A think tank of Korea’s science and technology 
and a world-leading university in academic development”
KAIST’s challenge: “Lack of shared vision”
1.  A world-leading university  
in academic development 30%
2.  A world-leading university  
in industrial technology 
development21%
3.  An institute that fosters leaders 
to serve Korea and the world17%
4.   A think tank of Korea’s  
science and technology31%
KAIST in 2031
1. Which role would citizens expect KAIST to fulfill in 2031? 
❶ A world-leading university in academic development 
❷ A world-leading university in industrial technology development
❸ An institute that fosters leaders to serve Korea and the world 
❹ A think tank of Korea’s science and technology 
❺ Other
1. Lack of shared vision
Main Challenge40%
2.   Lack of sense of  
responsibility 27%
3.  Lack of sense of ethics 14%
4. Lack of service spirit 10%
1. Which of the following is a challenge for KAIST? 
❶ Lack of shared vision 
❷ Lack of sense of responsibility 
❸ Lack of sense of ethics 
❹ Lack of service spirit 
❺ Other
59
Ⅱ Survey
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!KAIST’s priority: “Recruitment of outstanding faculty and fund 
acquisition”
Ideal KAISTian: “Creative talent”1. What should KAIST prioritize in order to become one of the world’s top 10 universities? 
❶ Recruitment of outstanding faculty 
❷ Recruitment of outstanding students 
❸ Fund acquisition 
❹ Recruitment of international faculty/students 
❺ Other
1.   Recruitment of outstanding 
faculty
Priority Task31%
2.   Recruitment of outstanding 
students23%
3.  Fund acquisition  28%
4.    Recruitment of international 
faculty/students10%
1. How would you describe the ideal individual to be fostered by KAIST? 
❶ Creative talent 
❷ Leadership talent 
❸ All-around talent 
❹ Entrepreneurial talent 
❺ Other
1. Creative talent
Type of Talent44%
2. Leadership talent 20%
3. All-around talent 21%
4. Entrepreneurial talent 14%


ⅢDetails
1. Education Innovation
2. Research Innovation
3. Technology Commercialization Innovation 
4. Globalization Innovation
5. Future Strategy InnovationMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

63
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!1. Education Innovation
VISION: Fostering Social-Value Enhancing Creative-Leaders”
Fostering Social-Value Enhancing Creative-Leaders
  Implementation and 
expansion of Education 
4.0 program for 
transforming teaching 
and learning methods
  Enhancement of smart 
learning infrastructure
  Expansion of Massive 
Open Online Courses 
(MOOCs) and  
real-time distance 
joint classes
  Introduction of 
extreme-end classes
  Modularization of 
courses for 
customized education
  Establishment of 
bilingual teaching 
environment
  Establishment of 
system for education 
innovation  Strengthening of 
freshmen courses
  Introduction of 
flexible semesters 
and flexible credit 
systems
  Strengthening of 
advisor roles and 
thesis research
  Strengthening of 
curriculum 
monitoring and 
feedback
  Establishment of the 
School of 
Transdisciplinary 
Studies
  Establishment of 
creative design labs 
and training 
programs   Improvement of 
admissions process 
to recruit students 
with creative talent
   Improvement of 
admissions process 
to recruit diverse 
students 
   Enhancement of 
benefits and aid to 
attract outstanding 
students
   Normalization of high 
school education by 
improving student 
recruitment methodsTransforming 
curriculums and systemsTransforming 
teaching and 
learning methodsRecruiting students 
with creative potential01 02 03
64•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe vision of education innovation at KAIST is “to foster social-value enhancing creative-
leaders,” and the three key innovation strategies under this vision are as follows. 
The first innovation strategy is "recruiting students with creative potential.” For this 
purpose, KAIST will select students with diverse backgrounds, attract outstanding 
students by expanding student support, and contribute to the normalization of high 
school education by improving its student recruitment methods.
The second innovation strategy is "transforming curriculums and systems.” KAIST will 
strengthen freshmen courses and introduce a free semester program. Specific strategies 
include the strengthening of thesis research and advisors’ roles, curriculum monitoring 
and feedback, establishment of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies, establishment of 
creative design labs, and the launch of training programs. 
The last innovation strategy is "transforming teaching and learning methods.” KAIST 
will establish the Education 4.0 program and develop smart learning infrastructure. 
Specific strategies include Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), extreme-end classes , 
modularization of courses for customized education, establishment of a bilingual 
environment, and the establishment of system for education innovation. 
Road Map for Innovation Strategies
As shown in the following table, short-term, mid-term, and long-term goals have been 
set for each innovation strategy at five-year intervals: 2021, 2026, and 2031. 
Under the first innovation strategy of recruiting students with creative potential, KAIST will 
introduce a student admission category that reflects character traits such as risk-taking, 
resilience in the face of adversity, and self-directedness. The proportion of students from 
general high schools, female students, and international students will be increased by 5% 
in 2021 compared to that of 2017. This will continue to rise by 5% compared to the 2021 
proportion in 2026, and again by 5% compared to the 2026 proportion in 2031. 
Under the second innovation strategy of transforming curriculums and systems to foster 
creative transdisciplinary individuals, KAIST aims to improve thesis research, strengthen 
freshmen courses, and expand curriculum templates and transdisciplinary courses. 
65
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!By 2026, it will introduce the free semester program, strengthen freshmen courses, 
establish the School of Transdisciplinary Studies, and expand graduate programs. By 
2031, it will expand the free semester program, develop leading education and research 
clusters in KAIST, and ultimately serve as a benchmark for all universities in the world. 
Under the third innovation strategy of transforming teaching and learning methods to 
bring up creative transdisciplinary talent, KAIST plans to gradually expand its Edu 4.0 
curriculum by increasing the proportion of Edu 4.0 courses. The trial run for modularized 
lectures will be carried out by 2021. This system will be greatly expanded by 2026, and 
students will be able to receive recommendations on lecture modules by 2031.  
66•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University< Road Map for Education Innovation  >
Classification 2021 2026 2031
Innovation 
Strategy 1 
Recruiting 
students 
with creative 
potential-   Introduction of new student admis-  
sion system to consider character 
traits
-   Increase in recruitment of students 
from general high schools, female 
students, and international 
students (by 5% compared to 2017)-   Enhancement of new student 
admission system
-   Increase in recruitment of students 
from general high schools, female 
students, and international 
students (by 5% compared to 2021)-   Enhancement of student admission 
system
-   Increase in recruitment of students 
from general high schools, female 
students, and international 
students (by 5% compared to 2026)
Innovation 
Strategy 2 
Trans-  
forming 
curriculums 
and systems-   Improvement of thesis research
-   Strengthening of freshmen courses
-   Expansion of faculty, student, curri-  
culum templates, and transdiscip-  
linary courses-   Implementation of the free 
semester program
-   Strengthening of freshmen courses
-   Establishment of School of Trans-  
disciplinary Studies
-   Expansion of graduate programs-   Expansion of the free semester 
program
-   Development of leading education 
and research clusters in KAIST
-   Establishing itself as a benchmark 
for all universities in the world
Innovation 
Strategy 3 
Trans-  
forming 
teaching 
and learning 
methods-   Edu 4.0 courses (400/year) 
-   Edu 4.0 satisfaction
-   Edu 4.0 classroom
-   Network classroom
-   Recording studio 
-   Smart teamwork room
-   Coursera
-   KOOC
-   K-MOOC
-   Real-time distance joint classes15%
4.1
40
20
15
50
30  
50
20
10-   Edu 4.0 courses (900/year) 
-   Edu 4.0 satisfaction
-   Edu 4.0 classroom
-   Network classroom
-   Recording studio 
-   Smart teamwork room
-   Coursera
-   KOOC
-   K-MOOC
-   Real-time distance joint classes30%
4.2
60
40
25
100
60 
100
40
20-   Edu 4.0 courses  (1500/year) 
-   Edu 4.0 satisfaction
-   Edu 4.0 classroom
-   Network classroom
-   Recording studio 
-   Smart teamwork room
-   Coursera
-   KOOC
-   K-MOOC
-   Real-time distance joint classes50%
4.3
80
60
40
200
100 
300
80
40
-   Modularization of lectures and 
learning contents (5%)
-   Trial run for modularized lectures-   Increase in modularized lectures 
and learning contents (25%)
-   Expansion of modularized lectures-   Increase in modularized lectures 
and learning contents (50%)
-   Recommendation of lecture 
modules to individual students
67
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!2. Research Innovation
VISION: Research on Challenging Problems Faced by Humanity & 
Countries
Research on Challenging Problems 
Faced by Humanity & Countries
  Establishment of 
selection  
process for future-
oriented flagship 
strategy research
  Selection of candidate 
areas based on 
flagship selection 
process
  Establishment and 
implementation of 
plans to support 
flagship research  Strengthening of 
creative/risk-taking 
research
   Attracting of 
outstanding/diverse 
international faculty
   Providing motivation 
for spinoff startups 
   Improving research 
service system
   Strengthening 
research capacity 
through academic 
information service  Innovation in 
researcher hiring 
system
  Establishment of 
self-initiated research 
centers
  Cross-generational 
collaboration lab 
system 
  Stimulating research 
collaboration among 
KAIST, industries, and 
research institutes
  Strengthening 
strategic research 
planning functionsPromoting creative & 
risk-taking researchFostering  
global-leading 
transdisciplinary 
research groupsShaping sustainable 
research environment
01
 02 03
68•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe vision of research innovation is “research on challenging problems faced by humanity 
& countries," and the three key strategies for innovation under this vision are as follows. 
The first innovation strategy is “shaping sustainable research environment.” This involves 
transforming the current researcher/research faculty system into the self-initiated 
research centers. A cross-generational collaboration lab system will be introduced, and 
research planning will be strengthened through more active collaboration with industries, 
universities, and research institutes. 
The second innovation strategy is “promoting creative and risk-taking research.” 
Specific action items for this strategy include the strengthening of creative and risk-
taking research, and the recruitment of diverse and outstanding faculty. Motivation will 
be provided for spinoff startups, and better services will be offered under an improved 
research service  system. Research capacity will be strengthened by supporting graduate 
students in transdisciplinary research and promoting the use of academic information 
services. 
The third research innovation strategy is “fostering global-leading transdisciplinary 
research groups.” Specific action items to implement this strategy include the 
establishment of a selection process for future-oriented flagship strategy research, 
selection of candidate areas based on the flagship selection process, and the 
development and implementation of measures to provide systematic support for flagship 
research. 
Road Map for Innovation Strategies
Under the first innovation strategy of shaping sustainable research environment, KAIST 
will gradually increase the number of transdisciplinary convergence research centers and 
cross-generational collaboration labs. Outstanding research faculty will be expanded to 
constitute 10%, 20%, and 30% of the entire faculty every five years. A research planning 
control tower will be put in place, or the role of the existing Office of Research Affairs will be 
strengthened. Human resources for a research planning control tower will be reinforced, 
and the organization will be restructured to ultimately serve as a national think tank.
Under the second innovation strategy of promoting creative and risk-taking research, 
69
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!KAIST will expand the creative/risk-taking research support system to all departments 
by 2031. The proportion of outstanding international faculty will be raised to 10%, 20%, 
and 30% of the Korean faculty every five years. A professional librarian system will be 
implemented to support colleges and departments. The Analysis Center will improve its 
equipment and human resources, and promote the joint utilization of shared facilities. 
Policies will be implemented to enhance graduate students’ capacity for transdisciplinary 
research (e.g. dispatching the first-semester Ph.D. students to their lab of choice in other 
departments).
Finally, under the third innovation strategy of fostering global-leading transdisciplinary 
research groups, KAIST will support flagship research groups. Faculty members 
participating in the 10 flagship research fields will account for 35% of the entire faculty, 
and up to 45 research faculty members and researchers will be recruited to join 
research groups. In addition, each flagship group will aim to participate in at least three 
international collaborative projects. 
< Road Map for Research Innovation  >
Classification 2021 2026 2031
Innovation 
Strategy 1 
Shaping 
sustainable 
research 
environment-   Support for 
establishment/
management of three 
transdisciplinary 
convergence research 
centers  
(fourth industrial 
revolution, etc.)
-   Designation of and 
support for at least 30 
cross-generational 
collaboration  
laboratories
-   Expansion of 
outstanding research 
faculty  
(10% of full-time 
faculty)
-   Establishment of 
research planning 
control tower or 
strengthening of role 
of Office of research 
Affairs -   Support for 
establishment/
management of six 
transdisciplinary 
convergence  
research centers 
-   Designation of and 
support for at least 50 
cross-generational 
collaboration  
laboratories
-     Expansion of 
outstanding research 
faculty  
(20% of full-time 
faculty)
-     Expansion of personnel 
for research planning 
control tower-   Support for 
establishment/ 
management of 10 
transdisciplinary 
convergence  
research centers 
-   Designation of and 
support for at least 60 
cross-generational 
collaboration  
laboratories
-   Expansion of 
outstanding research 
faculty  
(30% of full-time 
faculty) 
-   Serving as national 
think tank through 
expansion of research 
planning control tower
70•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityClassification 2021 2026 2031
Innovation 
Strategy 2 
Promoting 
creative &  
risk-taking 
research -     Implementation of 
creative/risk-taking 
research support 
system 
-   Expansion of 
outstanding 
international faculty to 
10% of Korean faculty 
-   Introducing a system 
to support colleges/
departments (in 
analysis of research 
trends based on 
academic databases) 
-    Increase in analytical 
equipment/personnel 
and joint utilization of 
researchers by 20% 
compared to 2017-   Expansion of creative/
risk-taking research 
support system (at 
least 10 departments)
-   Expansion of 
outstanding 
international faculty to 
20% of Korean faculty 
-   Reinforcing the system 
to support colleges/
departments (in 
analysis of research 
trends based on 
academic databases) 
-    Increase in analytical 
equipment/personnel 
and joint utilization of 
researchers by 20% 
compared to 2021-   Implementation 
of creative/risk-
taking research 
support system of all 
departments
-   Expansion of 
outstanding 
international faculty to 
30% of Korean faculty 
-    Building the system 
to support colleges/
departments (in 
analysis of research 
trends based on 
academic databases) 
-    Increase in analytical 
equipment/personnel 
and joint utilization of 
researchers by 20% 
compared to 2026
Innovation 
Strategy 3 
Fostering 
global-  
leading  
trans-   
disciplinary 
research 
groups-   Flagship research 
group: selection/
support of five groups
-   Flagship research 
personnel: 
· Faculty participating 
in five research 
groups to account 
for 15% of full-time 
faculty
· Recruitment of 15 
research faculty 
and researchers 
to participate in 
research groups 
-   Each flagship group to 
participate in at least 
one global cooperation 
research project (total 
of five)-   Flagship research 
group: selection/
support of eight groups
-   Flagship research 
personnel: 
· Faculty participating 
in eight research 
groups to account 
for 25% of full-time 
faculty 
· Recruitment of 30 
research faculty 
and researchers 
to participate in 
research groups
-    Each flagship group to 
participate in at least 
one global cooperation 
research project (total 
of eight)-   Flagship research 
group: selection/
support of ten groups
-    Flagship research 
personnel:
· Faculty participating 
in ten research 
groups to account 
for 30% of full-time 
faculty
· Recruitment of 45 
research faculty 
and researchers 
to participate in 
research groups 
-   Each flagship group to 
participate in at least 
one global cooperation 
research project (total 
of ten)
71
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!10 Global-Leading Transdisciplinary Flagship Research Areas
KAIST has defined 10 Flagship Strategic Research Areas for fulfilling its vision of research 
to overcome grand challenges faced by humanity. The 10 Flagship Research Fields can 
be categorized into four groups:
The first group contains six flagship research areas that are related to the fourth 
industrial revolution. A brief description of each field is provided below.
1.   “Quantum Technology” research aims at leading the second quantum revolution 
through technological breakthroughs in quantum computing, the quantum simulator, 
and the topological superconductor. 
2.   One of the important goals of research on “Hyper-Connection Photonics” is to develop a 
high-dimensional optical network and infra-technology for creating a hyper-connected 
society.
3.   “M3I3 Research Initiative” is designed to create a comprehensive structure-property 
library for new materials. It does this by using multi-scale modeling and imaging via an 
AI/machine-learning-based system and automated molecular synthesis by molecular 
3D printer to revolutionize the process of identifying, synthesizing, and testing new 
materials. M3I3 is short for “Materials and Molecular Modeling, Imaging, Informatics, 
and Integration.”
4.   “Super Intelligence Initiative” is a representative research project in the field of 
Artificial Intelligence at KAIST for creating a Human-AI symbiosis system based on the 
convergence of CIBN (Cogno-IT-BT-NT). 
5.   Research on the “Development of Safety-Assured Smart City Platform based on 
Interconnected Cyber-Physical Systems” is proposed for creating a CPHES (Cyber-
Physical Human Environment System)-based resilient and intelligent smart city and 
transportation platform.
6.   KAIST has a strong track record in space technology, and “Innovation in Space Access: 
Micro Launcher and CubeSat Cloud” has the potential to continue this legacy by leading 
Space 4.0 with research on smart designing and manufacturing of a micro-launcher as 
well as developing a heterogeneous CubeSat Cloud along with on-orbit servicing .
In the second group, two research areas are selected in the field of bio-medical 
science.
72•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University7.   “WISE Brain” is an abbreviation for “Wires of Senses and Emotions” of the Brain, which 
seeks to identify the structural and functional circuitries of the sensory and emotional 
neural network.
8.   Research on the “Technology Convergence for Precision Medicine” has been proposed 
for paving the way for new healthcare technologies for predicting diseases accurately 
as well as providing customized treatment for particular groups of patients.
In the third group, one research area has been selected in the area of energy/  
environment. 
9.   “Development of Cloud System for Energy Production, Storage and Distribution” is 
designed for developing intelligent technology to build and operate the energy cloud 
system for 4S (sustainable, safe, smart, and scalable) energy production, storage, and 
distribution. 
In the fourth group, military/defense science and technology, one research area has 
been selected.
10.   The goal of “Intelligent Unmanned System” research is to develop fundamental 
technologies that can be applied not only for military use such as stealth drones, but 
also for spin-off technology.
Seamless Integration of New Innovative Research Ideas into KAIST 
Flagship Fields 
It is important for KAIST to maintain flexibility and openness in managing and expanding 
KAIST Flagship Strategic Research Areas. 
To achieve this purpose, KAIST should continuously monitor and integrate emerging 
innovative research ideas and approaches into the Flagship Research Fields. Moreover, 
if possible, KAIST should select and identify emerging research ideas and approaches as 
new extended KAIST Flagship Research Fields, in addition to the currently defined ones. 
By accommodating new and emerging innovative research ideas and approaches under 
KAIST Flagship Research, KAIST will identify opportunities not only to maintain cutting-
edge, creative and risk-taking characteristics of its flagships fields, but also to motivate 
its faculty members and graduate students to participate in flagship research activities. 
73
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!3. Technology Commercialization Innovation
VISION: Technology Value-Creating Entrepreneurial University
The vision of technology commercialization innovation is to become a “technology 
value-creating entrepreneurial university.” In education and entrepreneurial activities, 
entrepreneurial education and ethics must be strengthened to foster individuals 
with transdisciplinary talent who possess expert knowledge, communication skills, Strengthening 
infrastructure for 
startupsActivating
entrepreneurship
educationBuilding professional 
IP management 
systemsEstablishing technology 
holding company & 
cooperation clusterTechnology Value-Creating Entrepreneurial University
02 01 03 04
     Expansion of 
KAIST’s 
entrepreneurial 
infrastructure for 
improved 
success rate in 
entrepreneurial 
activities
     Establishment of 
entrepreneurial 
ecosystem 
through 
cooperation with 
external 
entrepreneurial 
infrastructure  Establishment of 
entrepreneurial 
university model 
for KAIST
  Design of 
undergraduate 
and graduate 
entrepreneurship 
curricula to 
nurture 
entrepreneurs
  Education on 
social values and 
ethics for 
scientists  Establishment of 
goals for technology 
commercialization 
activities, and 
design of incentive 
system
  Creation of intellectual 
property and design of 
patent application/
management process
  Promotion of industry/
academy/research 
institute cooperation 
and transdisciplinary 
research, and 
enhancement of 
patent value   Establishment of 
technology 
in-kind 
investment 
companies and 
expansion of 
technology 
investments
   Establishment of 
university-
industry 
cooperative 
clusters 
74•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universityand a sense of social responsibility. To do so, it is important to integrate the external 
infrastructure. Under research and commercialization fields, it is necessary to conduct high-
impact research to deliver results in terms of knowledge creation, problem-solving, and 
economic benefits. This can be achieved through cooperation with industries, universities, 
and research institutes. A technology value-creating entrepreneurial university aims to 
maximize humane and social values through education and entrepreneurial activities as 
well as knowledge/economic value through research/commercialization, thereby paving 
the way towards a global value-creative leading university.
The four innovation strategies presented to achieve the vision of becoming a technology 
value-creating entrepreneurial university are: 1) activating entrepreneurship education, 
2) strengthening infrastructure for startups, 3) building professional IP management 
systems, and 4) establishing technology holding company & cooperation cluster.
The first innovation strategy is activating entrepreneurship education. Specific 
strategies include working out an entrepreneurial university model for KAIST, designing 
undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship curricula to nurture entrepreneurs, and 
instilling social values and ethics expected of scientists.
The second innovation strategy is strengthening infrastructure for startups. Specific 
strategies include beefing up KAIST’s entrepreneurial infrastructure for improved  
success and establishing an entrepreneurial ecosystem through cooperation with the 
external entrepreneurial infrastructure. 
The third innovation strategy is building professional IP management systems related 
to intellectual property. Specific strategies include establishing goals for technology 
commercialization activities, implementing an incentive system, creating intellectual 
property, and developing a patent application/management process. In addition, other 
goals are to strengthen cooperation among industries, universities, and research 
institutes, accelerate efforts in transdisciplinary research, enhance patent values, and set 
up the Open Venture Lab for people in general.
The fourth innovation strategy is establishing technology holding company & cooperation 
cluster. Specific strategies include founding technology in-kind investment companies, 
expanding technology investments, and establishing university-industry cooperative 
clusters. 
75
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Road Map for Innovation Strategies
As shown in the following table, short-term, mid-term, and long-term goals have been 
set for each innovation strategy at five-year intervals: 2021, 2026, and 2031. 
Under the first innovation strategy of activating entrepreneurship education, KAIST 
will introduce entrepreneurship as a mandatory subject for undergraduates by 2031. 
It will increase graduate entrepreneurship programs by 2021, and gradually develop 
customized entrepreneurial support programs and top-level entrepreneurial support 
programs. 
Under the second innovation strategy of strengthening infrastructure for startups, KAIST 
will construct an entrepreneurial support platform in Asia by 2021, a global entrepreneurial 
support platform by 2026, and cooperate mutually with global entrepreneurial support 
platforms to attract outstanding entrepreneurs by 2031. 
Under the third innovation strategy of building professional IP management systems, 
KAIST aims to achieve 3% ROI by 2021, 5% ROI by 2026, and 10% ROI by 2031 in 
intellectual property rights. It will have implemented customer-pull patenting by 2021, 
and patent portfolio management by 2026. The economic value of intellectual property 
will be grow significantly by 2031. In relation to the TLO organization, KAIST will adjust its 
function and strengthen incentive systems by 2021, consolidate its professionalism and 
autonomy by 2026, and further advance the patenting process by 2031. The ultimate goal 
is to enable the TLO organization to gain independence.
Finally, under the fourth innovation strategy of establishing technology holding company 
& cooperation cluster, KAIST will build infrastructure and systems for technology in-kind 
investment companies by 2021, derive outcomes from technology in-kind investment 
companies by 2026, and significantly enhance outcomes of technology in-kind investment 
companies by 2031. At the same time, it will strive to attract various startup companies 
on campus by 2021, and establish a university-industry cooperative startup convergence 
center by 2026. University-industry cooperative clusters will be put in place on campus by 
2031.
76•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University< Road Map for Tech. Commercialization Innovation  >
Classification 2021 2026 2031
Innovation Strategy 1 
Activating 
entrepreneurship 
education-   Entrepreneurship included as 
mandatory subject for  
undergraduates (50%)
-   Expansion of (graduate)  
entrepreneurship programs-   Entrepreneurship included as 
mandatory subject for  
undergraduates (75%)
-   Design of customized  
entrepreneurial support 
programs-   Entrepreneurship included as 
mandatory subject for  
undergraduates (100%)
-   Design of top-level 
entrepreneurial support 
programs
Innovation Strategy 2 
Strengthening 
infrastructure for 
startups-   Establishment of 
entrepreneurial support 
platforms in asia (installation of 
two overseas branches)-   Establishment of global 
entrepreneurial support 
platforms (installation of five 
overseas branches)-   Mutual cooperation with 
global entrepreneurial support 
platforms (attraction of 
outstanding entrepreneurs)
Innovation Strategy 3 
Building professional IP 
management systems-   IPR ROI (3%)
-   Customer-pull patenting
-   Adjustment of TLO 
organization’s function, and 
strengthening of incentive 
system
-   Open Venture Labs (Seoul 
campus, Munji campus)-   IPR ROI (5%)
-   Patent portfolio management
-   Strengthening of TLO  
organization’s professionalism 
and autonomy-   IPR ROI (10%)
-   Enhancement of economic 
value of intellectual property
-   Development of patenting  
process, and acquisition of TLO 
organization’s independence
Innovation Strategy 4 
Establishing technology 
holding company & 
cooperation cluster-   Establishment of support 
system for technology in-kind 
investment companies
-   Active incubation of startups on 
campus
-   K-Industry 4.0-   Creation of outcomes  
by technology in-kind 
investment companies
-   Establishment of university-
industry cooperative startup 
convergence center on campus-   Enhancement of outcomes by 
technology in-kind  
investment companies
-   Establishment of university-  
industry cooperative clusters 
on campus
77
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Establishing 
overseas
campuses
   Establishment and 
management of 
global R&D centers  
(USA/EU and ASIA)
   Establishment and 
management of at 
least one overseas 
campus
   Development and 
utilization of 
advanced 
international  
transdisciplinary 
research/education 
programs
   Innovation in global 
technology 
commercialization 
strategies
   Innovation in PR 
strategies to 
enhance KAIST’s 
visibility   Establishment of 
campus without 
linguistic/cultural 
barriers
   Globalization of faculty
   Globalization of 
students and 
researchers
   Globalization of 
administrative systemMaintaining a 
global campus
   Outbound international 
research
   Inbound international 
research
   Global 
commercialization of 
KAIST’s outstanding 
research
   Establishment of vision 
and research 
strategies in  
KAIST-initiated 
research areas in 
science and technologyPersuing  
KAIST-initiated 
global research
   Dispatching research 
volunteers to 
developing countries 
and technical 
support (R&D 
technology and 
equipment)
   Enhancing KAIST’s 
reputation among 
developing countries 
by providing 
educational support 
through the 
establishment of 
graduate schools in 
economic 
development, 
science, and 
technology
   Establishment of 
ASEAN-KAIST R&D 
Center
   Establishment of 
KAIST Spirit & Mind 
FoundationExpanding KAIST 
development model to 
developing countries
02 01 03 04World Bridge KAIST by 20314. Globalization Innovation
VISION: World Bridge KAIST by 2031 (Enhancement of KAIST’s Global 
Competence and International Standing)
78•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe vision of globalization innovation is “World Bridge KAIST by 2031,” which involves 
enhancing KAIST’s global competence and international standing. The globalization 
innovation strategies will create a virtuous cycle to raise international research 
competitiveness and its values. 
The vision of “World Bridge KAIST by 2031” will be materialized through the following four 
innovation strategies. The first innovation strategy is maintaining a global campus without 
linguistic and cultural barriers. The second is establishing overseas campuses. The third 
is persuing KAIST-initiated global research. The fourth is expanding KAIST development 
model to developing countries seeking to achieve modernization through science and 
technology. 
The establishment of a global campus will involve creating a campus without linguistic 
and cultural barriers with the active involvement of faculty, students, research 
personnel, and the administrative system. As the bridgehead of globalization, KAIST will 
construct overseas campuses and global R&D centers. In this process, it will be able 
to attract outstanding individuals and promote its research outcomes, leading to global 
commercialization. These strategies will propel KAIST towards its vision of creating 
global value and leading the world in science and technology. The creation of global 
value will in turn complement KAIST’s efforts to establish a global campus, and thereby 
create a virtuous cycle of globalization. This is consistent with KAIST’s belief that activities 
beneficial to its members will pave the way for the advancement of humanity.
The first innovation strategy is maintaining a global campus. Specific strategies include 
eliminating linguistic and cultural barriers, globalization of the faculty, globalization of 
students and researchers, and globalization of the administrative system. 
The second innovation strategy is establishing overseas campuses. KAIST will found 
global R&D centers, and establish and operate at least one international campus. 
Specific strategies include the development of advanced international transdisciplinary 
research and education programs, innovation in global technology commercialization 
strategies, and innovation in promotional strategies to boost KAIST’s visibility. 
The third innovation strategy is persuing KAIST-initiated global research. Specific 
strategies include the global commercialization of KAIST’s outstanding research 
79
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!outcomes, and initiating the establishment of visions and research strategies in 
promising fields of science and technology. 
Lastly, the fourth innovation strategy is expanding KAIST development model to 
developing countries. KAIST will dispatch research volunteers to developing countries 
and provide appropriate technologies, and share its experiences in the establishment of 
a graduate school specializing in science and technology. Developing countries may then 
achieve economic modernization based on the KAIST model of science and technology. It 
will also set up the ASEAN-KAIST R&D Center and the KAIST Spirit & Mind Foundation.
Road Map for Innovation Strategies
As shown in the following table, short-term, mid-term, and long-term goals have been 
set for each innovation strategy at five-year intervals: 2021, 2026, and 2031.
Under the first innovation strategy of maintaining a global campus, KAIST plans to 
provide globalization education for all members, and attract outstanding international 
faculty members, students, and researchers by 2021. It will create a global environment 
by establishing an international culture hall, hosting international job fair programs, and 
organizing international R&D festivals by 2026. The goal is to achieve the vision of “World 
Bridge KAIST” by 2031.
Under the second innovation strategy of establishing overseas campuses, KAIST will 
perform a feasibility assessment, develop a road map, and construct at least one R&D 
center by 2021. It will expand overseas campuses based on R&D center operations and 
assessment of global influence by 2026. R&D centers will be actively utilized, and at least 
one overseas campus will be in operation by 2031. 
Under the third innovation strategy of persuing KAIST-initiated global research, KAIST 
aims to increase its participation in international consortiums, and invite overseas 
universities/research centers to open Korean branches. It will attract international 
investments for worldwide technology commercialization by 2026. Next, it will select 
promising fields of science and technology for KAIST-initiated research, and makes bold 
investments in innovative technology development by 2031. 
80•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityUnder the fourth innovation strategy of expanding KAIST development model to 
developing countries, KAIST will engage in educational cooperation while working on the 
development model by 2021. It will jointly build the ASEAN-KAIST R&D Center by 2026, 
followed by the KAIST Spirit & Mind Foundation by 2031.
81
Ⅲ Details
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!< Road Map for Globalization Innovation  >
Classification 2021 2026 2031
Innovation Strategy 1 
Maintaining  
a global campus-   Strengthening of globalization 
education and competence of 
members 
-   Attraction of outstanding 
faculty/students/researchers
-   Establishment of international 
student alumni network -   Establishment of international 
culture hall
-   Hosting international job fairs
-   Organization of international 
R&D festivals-   World Bridge KAIST by 2031 
(Connecting KAIST to the 
world)
Innovation Strategy 2 
Establishing  
overseas campuses-   Feasibility assessment and 
roadmap development 
-   Establishment of at least one 
R&D center-   Operation of R&D center, and 
expansion of overseas campus 
based on assessment of global 
impact-   Utilization of R&D center and 
establishment and  
management of at least one 
overseas campus
Innovation Strategy 3 
Persuing KAIST-initiated 
global research-   Participation in international 
consortiums, and opening of 
Korean branch by overseas 
universities/research centers -   Attracting international  
investment for worldwide 
technology commercialization-   Selection of promising fields 
of science and technology and 
making bold investments in 
innovative technology
Innovation Strategy 4 
Expanding KAIST 
development model to 
developing countries-   Transfer of KAIST development 
model to education and 
research in developing 
countries-   Joint establishment of  
ASEAN-KAIST R&D Center -   Establishment of KAIST Spirit 
& Mind Foundation 
82•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University5.   Future Strategy Innovation–Principles and Perspectives 
for Integration
In summary, the goal of VISION 2031 is for KAIST to become a “global value-creative leading 
university” and to be among “the world’s top 10 universities.” To achieve this goal, it must 
effectively allocate resources for balanced development in organization, human resources, 
and funding. The fulfillment of VISION 2031 requires optimization of these three aspects, 
and specific actions will be taken under an open-minded culture and exemplary leadership.
The future strategies serve as basic principles in setting the directions of the four 
key innovation strategies, thereby enabling the different divisions to complement one 
another. The integration of short-term, mid-term, and long-term visions and strategies 
of the four divisions, namely, education innovation, research innovation, technology 
commercialization innovation, and globalization innovation, are supported by the 
aforementioned strategies.
To implement the future strategies, KAIST must instill a sense of duty to the nation 
in accordance with its founding philosophy. It will build a culture centered on the core 
values of “creativity” and “challenge,” and at the same time, infuse a “caring” spirit. The 
sustainability of strategies depends on the members’ awareness of the common goal 
and the adoption of a cross-generational sharing culture. 
The key to innovation in future strategies lies in the transition from HOW-oriented 
research to WHAT-oriented research. KAIST must expand beyond problem-solving and 
conduct research that defines new directions for the country, humanity, and science 
and technology. This can be achieved by taking a new approach, such as promoting 
convergence between science and technology and the cultural arts. 
Long-term, continuous monitoring is required to ensure commitment to VISION 2031. 
This role must be defined and properly assigned. 
Finally, KAIST seeks to contribute to the peaceful reunification of Korea through science 
and technology. The proposed measures include exchange in science and technology 
between the two Koreas regardless of political agenda and the establishment of a 
campus within the DMZ.
ⅣAction Strategies
1. Outline of Action Strategies
2.   Organization and Governance 
Competence in Convergence and 
Collaborative Research
3. Human Resources
4. Funding
5.   Number of Faculty Members /Students 
and Budgeting 
6. Major ProjectsMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

85
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!1. Outline of Action Strategies
To attain the various goals presented in the previous chapter, KAIST has put forward 
action strategies based on comparative analysis with competing benchmark universities. 
In particular, it will reflect implications derived from an in-depth analysis of organization, 
governance, leadership, human resources, and finances. 
The significance of benchmarking is that it will make it possible to select strategies that 
best fit VISION 2031. Rather than blindly emulating benchmark universities, KAIST will 
analyze the strengths and weaknesses of each university, and adopt strategies that are 
appropriate for its circumstances. The selected benchmark universities are research-
oriented universities with global competitiveness and similar to KAIST in terms of 
education/research philosophy and goals. The key benchmark universities include MIT, 
Stanford, and Nanyang Technological University. Universities attempting innovative 
changes despite their smaller sizes, such as Babson College and Franklin W. Olin 
College of Engineering, were included in the analysis to identify learning points for KAIST. 
KAIST must actively utilize the KAIST Research Outcome Plan for the establishment of 
short-term (2017–2021) strategies under VISION 2031. These are interim goals to be 
fulfilled to ensure the success of VISION 2031, and can be referred to as VISION 2021. 
VISION 2031 contains long-term, strategic goals, while the KAIST Research Outcome 
Plan presents short-term action strategies for the years leading to 2021.
The KAIST Research Outcome Plan details institutional goals to be attained during 
the term of office of President Sung-Chul Shin. It presents research/research support 
strategies and performance goals based on the president’s management philosophy, 
and defines specific plans and performance indicators. The key content of the Research 
Outcome Plan is given in the chart below. The strategies and performance goals in 
research, as laid out in the Research Outcome Plan, can be largely divided into the 
following: 1) Producing outstanding creative leaders for KAIST, 2) producing global 
research outcomes, and 3) creating added value through technology commercialization 
and entrepreneurship. The performance goals in research support are: 1) forming 
a value-creating educational and research environment, 2) efficiently operating the 
86•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universityinstitute based on transparency and ethics, and 3) building an ecosystem for shared 
growth through performance management. These strategies and performance goals 
are closely related to the president’s underlying philosophy in educational innovation, 
transdisciplinary research innovation, and entrepreneurial/industrial innovation.
Goal System
To materialize the vision of becoming a “global value-creative leading university,” KAIST 
must clearly define its founding purpose, institutional missions, and management 
goals. KAIST was established for the purpose of producing high-quality science and < Outline of Action Strategies  >Research outcome plan strategies and performance goals, 
and their relation to the president’s management philosophy
87
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!technology leaders, performing basic and applied research, and providing research 
support. It seeks to foster future leaders, conduct basic/applied research and proliferate 
research outcomes, cooperate with local and international organizations, and participate 
in commissioned research involving local and international industries, universities, and 
research institutes. Its current management goals are to produce global transdisciplinary 
leaders to lead the fourth industrial revolution and to emerge as a global powerhouse of 
new knowledge and technology. As shown in the above chart, it is important for KAIST to 
achieve performance goals in research and research support.
88•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityPerformance Goals and Road Map – Specific Performance Indicators
Strategic Goal 1. Fostering of Outstanding Creative Talent
Name of Indicator Past (2014~2016) Term of Office (2017~2021) Final Goal (2025, 2031)
Performance Goal 1–1. [Research/Education] Fostering Creative Talent in Science and Technology 
Fostering of outstanding 
students-   92 awards in international  
academic conferences
-   13 awards in international  
competitions-   117 awards in international 
academic conferences
-   19 awards in international  
competitions-   130 awards in international 
academic conferences
-   29 awards in international 
competitions
Non-departmental system design 
and satisfaction rating-   New area of development-   Design of non-departmental  
system for 2017~2018
-   Satisfaction rating 4.20-   Complete implementation 
of KAIST non-departmental 
system 
-   Satisfaction rating 4.50
Registration of patents based on 
real-world problem-solving-   11 registered patents -   20 registered patents -   30 registered patents
 Performance Goal 1-2. [Research/Education] Enhancement of Global Competence
Campus globalization-   International faculty 8.3%
-   International students 5.4%-   International faculty 15%
-   International students 10%-   International faculty 20%
-   International students 15%
Satisfaction of exchange students -   Satisfaction rating 3.95 -   Satisfaction rating 4.30-   Satisfaction rating to improve 
to 4.50 in the long term
Global leadership activities-   Two countries
-   51 dispatched students -   Five countries
-   100 dispatched students -   Maintained at 100 students 
dispatched to five countries
Performance Goal 1-3. [Research/Education] Establishment of Education/Research Infrastructure 
Satisfaction with 
Education 4.0-   Satisfaction rating 3.88 -   Satisfaction rating 3.98 -   Satisfaction rating 4.0
Increase of journal subscriptions 
and books read per student-   Subscribed to 11,200 journals
-   57 books read per student-   Subscribed to 16,000 journals
-   66 books read per student-   Subscribed to 16,500 journals 
-   70 books read per student
Satisfaction with lab safety 
culture campaign-   Satisfaction rating 4.08 -   Satisfaction rating 4.18 -   Satisfaction rating 4.30
Satisfaction with student rights 
and social inclusion-   New area of development -   Satisfaction rating 3.30 -   Satisfaction rating 3.60
89
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination! Strategic Goal 2. Creation of Global Research Outcomes
Name of Indicator Past (2014~2016) Term of Office  (2017~2021) Final Goal  (2025, 2031)
Performance Goal 2-1. [Basic/Future-oriented] Leader of Basic Research
Entering top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking 
(natural science and  
other fields)-   Two fields in Top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking-   Four fields in Top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking
-   One field in Top 10 in QS  
Subject Ranking-   Five fields in Top 20 in QS 
Subject Ranking
-   One field in Top 10 in QS 
Subject Ranking
IF of at least 3.0 in global 
climate change/healthcare -   79 papers with IF of at least 3.0 -   104 papers with IF of at least 3.0-   125 papers with IF of at least 
3.0 
IF of at least 1.0 for SCOPUS/KCI  
papers on IoT-   2 papers with IF of at least 1.0 -   12 papers with IF of at least 1.0 (Not applicable)
Performance Goal 2-2. [Basic/Future-oriented] Leader of Applied Research
Entering top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking 
 (engineering)-   Two fields in Top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking-   Five fields in Top 20 in QS  
Subject Ranking-   Five fields in Top 20 in QS 
Subject Ranking
-   Three fields in Top 10 in QS 
Subject Ranking
Overseas patents -   327 overseas patents -   360 overseas patents -380 overseas patents
SAR satellite development 
technology compared to 
developed countries-   Technology level 30% -   Technology level 80% -   World’s best
Machine learning process 
innovation -   New area of development -   99% precision compared to recall-   99% precision compared to 
recall; world’s best
90•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityStrategic Goal 3. Creating Value through Technology Commercialization and  
Entrepreneurial Activities
Name of Indicator Past (2014~2016) Term of Office  (2017~2021) Final Goal  (2025, 2031)
Performance Goal 3-1. [Commercialization] Promotion of Entrepreneurial Education
Satisfaction with K-School 
education-   Satisfaction rating 4.00 -   Satisfaction rating 4.30 -   Satisfaction rating 4.50
Expansion of social enterprises-   37 graduates produced by 
social entrepreneurship 
program
-   31 social enterprises-   132 graduates produced 
by social entrepreneurship 
program
-   110 social enterprises-   No. of graduates of social 
entrepreneurship program 
and social enterprises to 
increase to 159% 
Performance Goal 3-2. [Commercialization] Strengthening of Technology Commercialization
No. of technology in-kind 
investment companies-   9 technology in-kind 
investment companies-   32 technology in-kind 
investment companies-   40 technology in-kind 
investment companies
Amount of technology 
investment-   40 million won (recent three 
years)-   780 million won accumulated 
over five years -   320 million won acquired per 
year 
Performance Goal 3-3. [Commercialization] Promotion of Student Startups
No. of student startups -   46 student startups -   121 student startups -   136 student startups
Satisfaction with student startup 
support program-   New area of development -   Satisfaction rating 3.90-   Satisfaction rating of at least 
3.90 
91
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!2.    Organization and Governance Competence in 
Convergence and Collaborative Research 
Organization and Governance
Strategies can be successfully implemented if they are suited to the organization: the 
achievement of an organization’s vision and goals depends on whether the strategies 
are a good fit with the organization. Moreover, effective governance is required to run 
the organization. The sections below discuss the optimal organization and governance 
required to achieve the goals of  VISION 2031.
1. Ideal University Organization – Matrix Structure
While maintaining the basic departmental framework, KAIST should develop a flexible 
structure that encourages cooperation and transdisciplinary research among faculty 
members and different faculties. For this purpose, the faculty evaluation system must 
be improved. Specifically, the evaluators of participating faculty can be extended from 
department heads to senior faculty of research groups. Individual faculty members 
should be allowed to assign different weights to their evaluation to ensure accuracy. 
The existing departmental system should be transformed into a matrix-based (cross-
functional dimension) structure as shown in the figure below to maximize excellence, 
applicability, professionalism, and flexibility. Multiple departments can be combined 
to form research centers based on common research interests and functional needs, 
and research center directors can be granted greater authority in faculty evaluation and 
budget allocation. 
92•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University< Matrix Structure of Ideal University Organization  >
Department 3Department 3
Department 2Department 2
Department 1Department 1
Department 3
Department 2
Department 1Department 3
Department 2
Department 1Research
Center 1
Research
Center n
① Current : Department-based (functional dimension)
②   Proposal : Establishment of matrix-based (cross-functional dimension) research 
organization according to research areas and functions (strengthening role of 
research center supervisors in faculty evaluation and budget allocation)School (College) of Natural Sciences School (College) of Engineering
School (College) of Engineering School (College) of Natural Sciences
[Figure]   Organizational structure to maximize excellence, applicability, professionalism,  
and flexibility
93
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!2. Introduction of Mega-Lab for Large-Scale Research
Faculty of various disciplines must work together to induce large-scale economic 
outcomes and maximize results in transdisciplinary and innovative research. For this 
purpose, it is necessary to strengthen the research planning function and integrate the 
research innovation strategies of VISION 2031. If successfully launched, mega-labs will 
create synergy through collaboration between new and existing research personnel. 
3. Weizmann Benchmarking for Active Technology Commercialization
To stimulate technology commercialization, KAIST must identify and analyze the most 
suitable target benchmarks. In terms of technology commercialization, the Weizmann 
Institute of Science is a good benchmark for KAIST. The Weizmann Institute cooperates 
with Yeda Research and Development Company to register patents, commercialize 
intellectual property, and support startups. Its annual royalties amount to KRW 100 
billion. The Yozma Group is a venture capital firm with more than 20 companies listed on 
NASDAQ or acquired by global companies. In October 2017, KAIST signed an MOU with 
these two organizations for the joint establishment of KAIST-Yozma-Weizmann Institute 
(TBD). 
4.   Governance: Board of Trustees, Term of Office of President, and Role of 
Faculty Council
For the continuous, effective implementation of VISION 2031, it is necessary to improve 
policies on the term of office of the president. For instance, the decision on reappointment 
can be made based on midterm evaluation results three years after the inauguration. 
If found to have performed poorly, the president will be excluded as a presidential 
candidate. The search for new presidential candidates must be carried out for at least 
one year. Changes to policies on the presidential term should take effect from the term of 
office of the next president. 
Since greater democracy and autonomy are essential in fulfilling VISION 2031 and 
missions, the role of the Board of Trustees and Faculty Council must be intensified 
accordingly. Measures should be developed to reinforce institutional autonomy in forming 
94•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universitythe Board of Trustees, and the Faculty Council should play a more active role in the 
establishment of research strategies and visions. 
5. Role of Student Council, Alumni, and Parents’ Association
The Student Council, alumni, and Parents’ Association play important roles in achieving 
VISION 2031. The Student Council must participate more actively to strengthen the 
learning and research capacity of students, who are the key players in education and 
research. The alumni and Parents’ Association need to explore direct and indirect ways, 
including donations, to contribute to school development. KAIST must give sufficient 
consideration to the opinions of alumni and parents in deciding major policies. 
6. Role of President and Administrative Personnel
The president and administrative personnel must build effective ties with the government. 
Instead of passively meeting government demands, KAIST must strengthen its role 
as a professional institute dedicated to the development of mid- to long-term national 
policies on science and technology. As the representative of local universities specializing 
in science and technology, KAIST should serve as a think tank of Korea in cooperation 
with the National Research Council of Science & Technology (NST), which supports 
government-funded research institutes and oversees related policies. 
7. Center for Ethics & Human Rights, Ombudsperson
The protection of individual rights is equally as important as institutional achievements. 
KAIST set up the Committee on Social Inclusion on September 1, 2017. The committee 
promotes mutual respect and social inclusion, and conducts surveys to ensure campus 
safety for all members. The various human rights organizations at KAIST should work 
together towards a common goal and form a solidarity. The Ombudsperson, Center for 
Ethics & Human Rights, Counseling Center, and Graduate Association Students Human 
Rights Center have held consultative meetings on a regular basis. This consultative group 
is a prerequisite for the establishment of consistent, transparent strategies that uphold 
human rights at KAIST. 
95
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!8. Desirable Culture and Ideal Qualities of Students
To fulfill VISION 2031, it is necessary to identify ideal qualities of undergraduate and 
graduate students. An ideal KAIST student is a creative leader with a global perspective 
and the competence to enhance social value through science and technology. In other 
words, KAIST highly values individuals who can identify scientific issues and social 
problems, and create new value by cooperating across disciplines to solve the identified 
issues. Creative leaders should possess strong character traits, including a passion for 
challenges, the capacity to overcome adversity, and a sense of self-directedness. They 
are science and technology leaders who can solve problems and cooperate with others 
by using creativity to meet challenges. At the same time, they are global leaders who 
contribute to not only the development of Korea, but also the advancement of humanity. 
They are also communicators who can build strong ties with the international community 
and work harmoniously with others around the world to overcome global issues. 
In order to achieve these goals, KAIST must exert efforts to instill a sense of duty to 
the nation in support of its founding spirit, and develop its core values ("Challenge," 
"Creativity," and "Caring") and vision (global value-creative leading university). The 
institute plans to collect feedback from young members to develop new symbols, logos, 
school flowers, and school trees in commemoration of its 50th (2021) and 60th (2031) 
anniversaries. To ensure consistency in conveying the qualities deemed desirable by 
KAIST, it is necessary to establish a solid university identity, including logos and brands. 
9. Change in Department and Program Operations
KAIST can learn from benchmark universities in order to introduce meaningful changes 
to its department and program operations. For instance, faculty members can be 
affiliated with departments or research organizations, and students with education 
programs. The institute should explore ways to improve operations of graduate education 
programs. It may be more efficient to establish an entity separate from research 
organizations under respective programs to support the academic affairs of graduate 
students. 
96•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University10.   Encouraging Convergence through Support for Transdisciplinary Research 
Groups
In order to promote transdisciplinary research, KAIST should create an atmosphere 
that encourages open-minded discussion among peers, and lower barriers between 
departments.
11.   Establishment of Relationship Between Head of Doctoral Dissertation 
Committee and Advisors
Currently, one faculty member is assigned as an advisor and the head of the doctoral 
dissertation committee. To improve the existing policy, separating the advisor from the 
head of the doctoral dissertation committee should be considered. Measures can be 
devised for faculty from various departments to participate in thesis guidance, so as to 
ensure more educational opportunities in students’ research interests, enhance research 
capacity, and facilitate the acquisition of knowledge across departments. 
Effective policies will be prepared based on the proposal on strengthening graduate 
students’ transdisciplinary research capacity by the Research Innovation Division. Instead 
of simply enforcing changes, sufficient consideration should be given to departmental 
characteristics and the opinions of faculty and students. Departments should be allowed 
to choose between the current system and the multiple advisor system. Of course, 
modification to the current system will be unnecessary if issues can be resolved without 
taking these steps.
97
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!3. Human Resources–Students, Faculty, and Staff
The driving force in fulfilling VISION comes from the members of KAIST-the students, 
faculty, and staff. Human resources should be optimized to facilitate the achievement of 
VISION 2031. Accordingly, role models must be defined for the members, and qualitative 
factors should be considered to lift their competence and consolidate a sense of ethics.
Currently, KAIST has a similar number of students as MIT, but 40% fewer faculty. The 
size of the faculty is also smaller compared to other overseas benchmark universities. 
Because this poses a significant threat to the quality of education and research, the 
institute will focus on matching its faculty numbers to that of MIT by 2031.
According to VISION 2031, ideal faculty members are intellectuals who understand 
VISION 2031 and strive to achieve the desired goals. They are highly motivated and ethical 
persons who contribute to the advancement of humanity through innovative research 
in science and technology. Lastly, they are leaders who provide guidance to students, 
cooperate harmoniously with peers, and conduct research aimed at tackling global 
issues. 
To recruit faculty who possess qualities deemed ideal by KAIST, it is necessary to establish 
policies on faculty recruitment and training. The aforementioned matrix structure can be 
supported by developing a faculty evaluation system that includes adjunct departments 
and research centers as evaluators. Incentives should be provided to motivate individual 
faculty members to be fully committed to their duties. The new evaluation system should 
take into account cooperation with peers and cross-generational faculty members.
At the same time, the current method of faculty recruitment should be improved by 
converting to a dual system, comprised of bottom-up and top-down recruitment. The 
former involves recruitment based on recommendation by departments, while the latter 
is initiated by the main administration in consideration of strategic, promising fields. 
For instance, the main administration can recruit ten faculty members each year in 
strategic research fields, and these faculty members may join an organization of their 
choice (department, research center). Similar to MIT’s Whitehead Fellowship, KAIST can 
launch a program that guarantees an independent research period for newly recruited, 
98•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universityoutstanding faculty members and support the pioneering of new research fields. 
Under VISION 2031, ideal staff members are intellectuals who understand the desired 
goals and exert efforts to achieve them. They provide the best services to maximize the 
potential of faculty and students, and show the utmost respect and consideration to their 
peers. They strive to build strong ties with the local community and government, and take 
all responsibilities while meeting the highest ethical standards.
To recruit staff members considered ideal by KAIST, it is necessary to designate suitable 
policies on staff employment and training. The administrative support function should be 
intensified to provide systematic support for faculty research and minimize the burden 
of administrative affairs faced by faculty. In the case of MIT, post-docs play a supporting 
role in education and research. In support of recent changes to national policies, KAIST 
should consider the gradual conversion of part-time staff members to full-time. It should 
review the cyclic allocation of human resources every one to two years to enhance job 
professionalism, and improve staff competence through visits to global universities and 
expansion of staff training programs.
To provide members with better incentives, KAIST must implement a strict and fair 
evaluation system. Feedback from all members should be reflected as much as possible 
to develop a transparent, objective personnel system. The new system should include 
incentives that encourage individual faculty and staff members to take the initiative in 
maximizing their creative competence. Furthermore, specific policies on incentives and 
evaluation criteria must be introduced to encourage cooperation among members based 
on mutual respect and consideration. 
In order to justify the need for VISION 2031, it is first essential to instill a sense of ethics in 
faculty, students, and staff. Research ethics must be emphasized through the transparent 
execution of funds in research conducted by faculty and students, and researchers must 
exercise greater social responsibility. All members must participate in the declaration 
of integrity, and awards will be presented to faculty and staff who demonstrate a strong 
sense of ethics. These efforts will help to remove corruption while fostering faculty and 
students who possess creativity, passion and high morals. In addition, the student honor 
code will be introduced to facilitate the administration of unsupervised tests and to 
99
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!encourage responsible expression of individual views on social media. 
※ KAIST Integrity Declaration Ceremony (4/17/2017)
KAIST Declaration of Integrity
As an executive/staff member of KAIST, I hereby agree to undertake my 
responsibilities with integrity and play my part in creating a corruption-
free campus by observing the following.
•   pledge to observe all laws and regulations in carrying out my 
responsibilities, and to faithfully perform duties that fall within my 
authority based on the principles of honesty and reliability
•   pledge to avoid any acts that run against workplace fairness, 
including the misuse of my position to solicit or accept any gifts or 
favors.
•   pledge not to request or receive bribes, nor ask for or accept 
requests for unjust benefits.
•   pledge to adhere to the honor code and to uphold its standards in 
performing my duties.
•   pledge to participate actively in the implementation of anti-corruption 
policies.
April 17, 2017
Executives and staff members of KAIST
100•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University4. Funding
Financial Support for Vision Achievement
Sufficient funds, in addition to the acquisition of competent human resources, are 
essential in working towards VISION 2031. KAIST will estimate optimal funding amounts 
based on an analysis of benchmark universities, and devise various measures to increase 
funding sources.
Funding Amount and Methods 
KAIST has set a quantifiable, sustainable goal of attracting two trillion won to the KAIST 
Development Fund by 2031. VISION 2031 Fundraising Committee will be formed to attain 
fundraising goals. This will be pursued continuously regardless of the president’s term 
of office. Key projects may vary depending on a president, but fundraising efforts and 
campaigns must continue for sustainable development. All members must cooperate 
over the long term, giving due credit to former presidents and showing their support to 
new presidents in related undertakings. 
KAIST’s fund management profits are much lower compared to that of Stanford and 
MIT. The profits derived from fund management were mostly in the form of interests, 
amounting to 5.5 billion won in 2016. Revenue was generated only through deposits and 
bonds, and the average rate of return in 2016 was 2.37%. 
KAIST needs to identify specialized research areas for research investments and 
generate revenue, similar to those of Stanford’s SLAC and MIT’s Lincoln Lab. For 
instance, the development of new medicine can generate royalty profits by being listed 
on the stock market. More donations should be drawn from alumni and businesses. The 
fundraising goal for alumni is set at one trillion won by 2031. 
1.   Change of Funding Responsibility for Greater Autonomy of Departments 
and Colleges
Colleges must collect more donations from alumni and businesses, and the increased 
funds should be utilized for independent research activities. Instead of relying on the 
101
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!university, departments should be granted greater authority and responsibility in fund 
acquisition and expansion. 
2.   Acquisition of Additional Funds through Establishment of Large-Scale 
Research Centers and Hospitals
In the mid/long-term, large-scale research centers and hospitals should be constructed 
for transdisciplinary research in the biomedical and bioengineering fields. Currently, it is 
difficult to derive meaningful outcomes under the existing system, which relies on other 
universities and hospitals to run clinical trials. Another way of boosting funds is through 
technology startups. For example, KAIST can pursue global commercialization (NASDAQ 
listing) of outstanding biomedicine technology in the same manner as the Yozma Fund. 
3. Profit Generation through Professional Fund Management
KAIST must utilize professional institutes to improve the profitability of university funds. 
It should establish an effective fund management and profit re-investment system 
by benchmarking university-affiliated management companies (fund management 
by the CFO and other experts) such as Harvard Management Company and Stanford 
Management Company. Strategic fund management should be employed to generate 
greater profits. KAIST can manage university funds more strategically by installing a 
management entity comprised of the CFO and other fund management experts. Part of 
the resulting profits from university funds should be continuously invested in operations, 
research, and improvement of student support/education infrastructure. 
4. Role of Alumni
The KAIST Alumni has set a fundraising goal of one trillion won by 2031. Continuous 
efforts will be made to raise funds through the alumni, and fundraising campaigns will 
be regularly organized. More active marketing can be achieved through the publication of 
KAIST Development Fund newsletters and promotion of campus events. Parent sponsors 
will be recruited as part of the efforts to increase donations. Specific goals should be 
designated in working towards the vision, including the alumni fundraising amount and 
recommendation of outstanding talent. 
102•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University5. Areas of Improvement for Government Budget
If it proves difficult to adopt the U.S. model, KAIST will require active government support, 
as in the case of Nanyang Technological University (NTU), in order to emerge as a world-
leading university within a short period of time. An analysis of NTU’s funding reveals that 
government support accounted for 47.5% of its income, excluding investment returns, in 
2016, and 44.8% in 2017. NTU has seen rapid growth thanks to large amounts of funding 
from the Singapore government. 
In the case of KAIST, some challenges are expected in increasing the government’s 
R&D budget. To overcome this situation, it must reinforce national defense research and 
exert efforts to receive funding from the government’s national defense R&D budget. 
KAIST has attained world-class standards in science and technology over the past fifty 
years, and is capable of contributing to national defense R&D. The Korean government 
accounted for 75% of national defense R&D in 2008, while the private sector in the United 
States accounted for 75%. In 2013, the government budget for national defense R&D 
was the second highest at 2 trillion 378 billion won (13.5%), trailing behind industrial 
manufacturing at 2 trillion 217 billion won (28.8%). The national defense R&D budget 
is categorized into basic research, core technology development, dual use technology, 
and professional use technology. The rate of budget increase has been higher than 
that of defense and defense improvement expenditures. A recent discussion forum on 
national R&D recognized the need to develop an open cooperation platform, including 
the establishment of the Defense-Security Research Center (DSRC) and an R&D group 
dedicated to civilian-military technology cooperation. The reality is that basic research on 
civilian-military cooperation is almost non-existent. Against this backdrop, KAIST seeks 
to build a national defense research institute modeled after Caltech’s JPL, Georgia Tech’s 
Military Communications Research Institute, and MIT’s Lincoln Lab. 
103
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!5. Number of Faculty Members/Students and Budgeting 
Setting specific quantitative goals for the number of faculty members, number of 
students, and expected budget to fulfill VISION 2031.
Target  
Index2018 2019 2020 2021 2026 2031Target 
Rate
(~2021)Target 
Rate
(2021~)
HRSize of faculty 676 715 757 801 998 1,243 5.80% 4.50%
Number of 
students11,654 11,771 11,889 12,008 12,620 13,264 1.00% 1.00%
Student/faculty 
ratio17.24 16.46 15.71 15.00 12.65 10.67
FRTotal budget 
(million won)858,600 927.288 1,001,471 1,081,589 1,481,870 2,030,291 8.00% 6.50%
Government 
contributions212,004 228,964 247,281 267,064 401,573 603,827 8.00% 8.50%
Research fund 382,655 418,357 457,389 500,064 734,758 1,079,600 9.33% 8.00%
Other 263,941 279,967 296,800 314,461 345,540 346,863
※ Assumptions
1. The number of professors will increase to 1,200 by 2031, achieving economies of scale.
2. The student/faculty ratio will decrease to 10 by 2031.
3.   Budget will reach 1 trillion won in 2021 and 2 trillion won in 2031. The budget per professor will 
be about 1.6 billion won.
4.   The proportion of government contributions to the total budget will be 25% by 2021 and 30% by 
2031.
5.   Category of “Other” includes royalty incentives and earnings from operation of the fund. The 
fund’s target is 2 trillion won by 2031.
104•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityThe key to realizing VISION 2031 is securing sufficient financial resources. Therefore, 
continuous efforts are needed to increase research funding and government 
contributions. Substantial donations are necessary, especially from alumni associations.
First, KAIST will raise the number of full-time faculty members to 1,200 by 2031 in order 
to compete with benchmark universities. The number of students will be increased by 
1% each year to reach a student-faculty ratio of 10 by 2031. 
In terms of budget, KAIST has set a budget goal of KRW 1 trillion by 2021, and KRW  
2 trillion by 2031. While government funds cannot be significantly raised, some increase 
may be possible with the expected higher number of students. An average growth of  
8 to 9% is required for research funds (target of KRW 800 million to 1 billion per faculty 
member). Royalty and development fund profits must also be raised significantly. KAIST 
should pursue fundraising more actively, centered on the alumni, with a goal of KRW  
2 trillion for 2031. 
VISION 2031 can only be achieved with stable funding. As such, continuous monitoring 
and strategic acquisition of funds must be carried out. KAIST must concentrate its efforts 
to maintain strategic ties with the alumni and philanthropists through the Development 
Fund.
Note
Under VISION 2031, the goal is to have 1,200 faculty members and a two trillion 
won in budget by 2031. The annual quantitative goals serve as rough guidelines 
in working towards the final goals. Attaining quantitative goals (or conversely not 
succeeding in doing so) is not an indicator of success or failure of   VISION 2031.
105
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!6. Major Projects–Areas of Focus for Vision Achievement
1.   Participation in Key Large-Scale Projects (Flagship Research of Research 
Innovation Division)
The driving force behind KAIST’s development is the education and research capacity of 
individual faculty members. For KAIST to take the next leap forward as a global value-
creative leading university and to maximize synergy from individual competence, it must 
undertake large-scale research projects that deliver economic impact. In other words, 
KAIST must develop and implement large-scale projects to successfully achieve VISION 
2031. 
2.   Enhancement of National Competitiveness through BT Research (Flagship 
Research of Research Innovation Division)
To sharpen competitiveness in BT, KAIST must develop strategies to attract and foster 
medical scientists (MDs/Ph.Ds). It should establish programs that support MDs/
Ph.Ds or MD-degree holders in performing fundamental research independently for a 
certain period of time for early-stage career development, so as to nurture emerging 
medical science talent and contribute to the advancement of medical science in Korea. 
Developments in innovative bioengineering technology can be attained through the 
convergence of basic biological sciences and engineering. Moreover, medical research 
must be strengthened by expanding projects in brain science and brain engineering. 
3.   Research on Renewable and Alternative Energy (Flagship Research of 
Research Innovation Division)
KAIST must conduct research in underdeveloped areas (space, marine, medicine, etc.) 
in the field of nuclear energy, and broaden its scope of interests in alternative energy 
sources, including solar energy, wind power and gas. 
106•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University4.   Strengthening of Cooperation with Industry and Providing Transdisciplinary 
Education to Foster Industrial Leaders
KAIST will launch the School of Transdisciplinary Studies to foster individuals talented 
in transdisciplinary disciplines capable of rapidly adapting to changing industries and 
responding to society’s demand for a new model of education.
•Rapid speed         • Complexity         •Uncertainty
•Rapidly marketable         •Flexibility for changes  
•Efficient technology
•Empirical                     •Interpretive             
•Critical                                 •TransdisciplinaryCharacteristics 
of Social Change
Needs of the 
Parties
Scientific 
methodology
KAIST must create a sustainable education model that allows rapid adjustment to 
technological advancements and changing circumstances.
Core Studies
Info communication
Cross-disciplinary
knowledge
Life job Ethical 
sentiment Cultural 
competence“ Sustainability  ”
Communication
cooperation problem 
solving
Creative Innovation
Educational 
PurposesBasic 
knowledgeMeta
knowledge
Human 
knowledge21st century 
learning< Society's Demand for a New Model of Education  >
< Sustainable Education Model of KAIST  >
107
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!The curriculum plan should also be improved to reflect transdisciplinary trends and the 
strengthening of Team URP/internships.
First, intensive transdisciplinary education is the one that integrates basic 
transdisciplinary courses. Students gain a broad understanding of real-world issues, 
and acquire the basic knowledge needed to find flexible solutions. Theme-based 
course templates are developed according to students’ interests and career plans. The 
curriculum provides more opportunities to interact with society and bolsters students’ 
competence in tackling real-world problems. 
Second, the Team URP/internship offers basic experiments in the second year, in order 
to enhance practical understanding of basic courses. The integration of lab sessions, 
seminars, internships and Team URP will maximize learning outcomes. Team URP 
brings together undergraduates in their third or fourth year, who form a team of about 
five students. The team will comprise multiple advisors and multiple students, or one 
advisor, industry experts and multiple students. Business issues can be addressed 
through cooperation between Team URP and companies, and these activities will help to 
train creative talent capable of identifying and defining problems.SubjectCareer
Environment
Energy
Big-Data
Healthcare
Nano
Liberal Arts, Mentor ProfessorProject Based Learning (PBL)
Action learning
Flipped learning 
Co/Team-teaching
Mentor Professor+Academic advisor
MentoringTeam
URPInternships 
or
Graduation Research 
Seminar
Basic Laboratory 
Practice
Liberal Arts, Humanities and Social Studies, Basic Essentials, Basic Electives (including 2 Mathematics)Guidance on Subject planTutoring lecture Envir
-onment
Modem
physicsEconomics & 
Management
Organic/bio 
chemistryMolecular 
BiologyAdvanced 
ProgrammingEnergy Big-Data Healthcare NanoTopics and career consultingChoose 
freely
considering
subject and 
career.◐ 4-2nd semester
◐ 4-1st semester
●3rd year
●2nd year
◐ 4-1st semester
●3-4th year
◐ 3-1st semester
●2-3rd year
◐ 2-1st semester
●1~2nd year   Basic           Fusion Basic            Fusion intensive                                                   Research
Mentor 
ProfessorStart-up Employ
ment Graduate 
SchoolETC
< The Curriculum Plan  >Applied
mathematical 
modeling
108•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University5. Improvement of Technical Research Personnel Policy 
There is a need to develop improved measures on military exemption for new and 
emerging researchers. The bridge model between science high schools and KAIST 
has been regarded as having played a key role in “Samsung’s catch-up with Sony.” 
The technical research personnel policy, which laid the foundation for the model, has 
helped to prevent brain drain and ensure continuity in research. However, depending on 
the decrease in population and other social changes, further discussion is required on 
whether to maintain or improve the current policy. 
6. Revolutionary Change Needed for Globalization
KAIST must exert efforts in international cultural exchange and instill a global mindset 
in students. It should expand the infrastructure for cultural exchange among Korean 
and international members, including the opening of the International Restaurant. 
KAIST is expected to achieve its goal of being among the world’s top 10 if it improves 
its globalization practices. Accordingly, special measures are needed to increase the 
number of international faculty and students. The establishment of KAIST branch 
campuses in developing countries in Southeast Asia will further boost globalization.
Statistics on International Faculty and Students in Major Universities
QS
RankUniversityInternational Faculty International Students
Percentage Score Rank Percentage Score Rank
1MIT (US) 56% 100 36 34% 96.1 70
2Harvard (US) 48% 99.6 54 22% 72.7 177
3U of Cambridge (UK) 30% 96.5 103 21% 75.2 165
4Imperial College London (UK) 37% 93.4 126 29% 89.2 106
8NTU (Singapore) 53% 100 42 35% 100 12
11 EPFL (Switzerland) 56% 100 19 31% 88.2 108
26 HKUST (Hong Kong) 73% 100 17 37% 93.0 87
41 KAIST (Republic of Korea) 12% 25.2 428 6% - -
※   See QS data for scores given to international faculty and students fields marked with ‘-’ fall 
below 500th place
109
Ⅳ Action Strategies
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!7. Promotion of National Defense Research
KAIST must develop defense technology and cultivate talent in related fields to improve 
and utilize cutting-edge technology in national defense. To this end, it should make 
use of its world-leading technology and research capacity, and strengthen the KAIST 
National Security Convergence Research Center. It must secure funds from the national 
R&D budget, and pursue transdisciplinary research, including the development of 
a new weapons systems. In addition, it should develop spin-on technology through 
commercialization of key research achievements to meet demands in national 
security. In doing so, KAIST will serve as an anchor of the national security platform 
based on cooperation with key entities in security policies. It must expand research 
and development in national defense by focusing on national defense in flagship 
research areas of the Research Innovation Division. This should be accompanied 
by a comprehensive review of ethical and legal issues that may arise when artificial 
intelligence and other new technology of the fourth industrial revolution are applied to 
national defense. 

ⅤConclusion
1.   Leading Future Society through  
Science and Technology 
2. Contribution to World Development
3.   Establishment of KAIST Strategic 
Research Center
4.   From 2017 to 2071  KAIST ’s 100th Year 
Anniversary
5. Action List
6. Closing RemarksMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

113
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!1.   Leading Future Society through Science and 
Technology
KAIST must reflect on how science and technology can be utilized to drive change and 
innovation in the future. In particular, it should define its role in the development of 
Korean society and economy. 
1. Fostering of Female Talent in Science and Technology
According to the “Overview of Women’s Status in Science” by Boston Consulting Group 
in 2016, the share of women among science researchers was a mere 29%. In Korea, 
female students continue to avoid science and engineering, and women account for 
only 17% of science and technology researchers. Female faculty members only account 
for 15% of the faculty in national universities, lower than the share of 25% recorded by 
private universities. This is a striking gender gap even when compared to the number 
of female students, who account for about 40% of the student body. The shortage of 
female scientists and engineers is a pressing social issue, and active support from the 
government and universities is needed to increase the proportion of female talent in 
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics).
Female scientists have contributed to the development of science and technology 
based on the characteristics more frequently associated with females such as emotion, 
intuition, and harmony. They are expected to make greater contributions given the 
growing emphasis on transdisciplinary research, which encompasses a wide range of 
subjects from science and technology to the arts. The lack of female scientists translates 
into economic loss, and fostering qualified researchers must be a priority in order to 
achieve developments in STEM fields, even more so when considering factors such as 
the rapidly decreasing population and subsequent changes in economic structure. Efforts 
must be made at the society level to cultivate young generations of female scientists. 
Here, the role of KAIST is to pass on knowledge and provide high-quality education to 
yield such talent.
114•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University2. Promotion of Startups
KAIST must spread and apply its experience and startup models to other regions via the 
Institute for Startup KAIST and K-School. Specifically, it can contribute to the development 
of a startup culture through the establishment of an innovative startup hub in Seoul. In 
addition, it can organize an AI global innovation forum, incubate innovative startups, and 
offer educational and networking programs. Science and technology ventures can be 
supported in their entry into overseas market by utilizing the global network of science 
and technology startups owned by Israel’s Yozma group and other leading institutes. 
3. Establishment of Educational Model for Korea
KAIST must acquire human resources for Korea to gain global competitiveness in the 
ever-changing world. It should implement innovative talent recruitment and educational 
policies to lay the foundation for being a world-leading institute that fosters science and 
technology talent. An educational model that represents Korea should be proposed. 
4.   Talent Donation through MOOCs–Support for Lifelong Learning Related 
to the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Offering of Science and Technology 
Courses for the General Public)
KAIST is actively supporting teaching and learning through the learner-oriented 
Education 4.0 Program and Bridge Program, an online course for high school students 
who have been offered admission. Under partnerships with companies and research 
centers, e-learning courses are offered to enhance professionalism and competence of 
employees and researchers. The global educational consortium iPodia has been put to 
use for creating knowledge together with world-leading universities, and high-quality 
lectures are made accessible to learners around the world through Massive Open Online 
Courses (MOOCs) and COURSERA. KAIST, as a knowledge-creating university, has 
offered various courses aimed at advancing science and technology, including Nuclear 
Energy Made Easy, Understanding the World with Materials Engineering, Fun Chemical 
Engineering, AI and Machine Learning, and Biological Science and the World. These 
programs can also be useful for emerging economies in Africa, Latin America, and 
Southeast Asia. 
115
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!5. Expansion of Student Volunteer Opportunities and Social Contributions
KAIST will provide students with opportunities to participate in social/education volunteer 
programs through which they may apply their knowledge to improve living conditions 
of not only local communities, but also socially neglected areas outside Korea. This 
can be accomplished in the form of participation in the science culture program in 
Daejeon, as well as in providing mentoring services for middle and high school students 
in cooperation with regional offices and partner schools. The institute will promote 
convergence of science and technology knowledge and social innovation in rural areas 
by expanding opportunities for students to participate in the sixth industrialization 
(combination of first/second/third industries).
6. Overcoming the Problem of the Aging Korean Society
Korea is a rapidly aging society, and the convergence of medicine and engineering is 
seen as a possible solution to dementia and other aging-related social issues. To solve 
real-world problems, greater support should be provided for technology innovation 
activities, such as the KAIST-MBN Fourth Industrial Revolution Idea Competition for SME 
Venture Companies. The Research Innovation Division of VISION 2031 has set its vision 
as conducting research and development to overcome challenges for humanity. In order 
to achieve this vision, it is necessary to drive innovation in research systems and research 
planning. 
7. Leader of Innovation in New Paradigm of Korean Economy
KAIST must build upon its excellence in science and technology and demonstrate 
leadership in the transition to the age of the fourth industrial revolution-the shift from 
industrialization to science and technology innovation. This is a mission that only KAIST 
is capable of performing. VISION 2031 serves as a blueprint for KAIST to fulfill its mission 
and respond to the needs of society. 
 
116•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University2. Contribution to World Development
KAIST must bring happiness and prosperity to humanity, and bridge the gap between 
countries by presenting directions for the future and developing novel technology. 
1. Transfer of KAIST’s Education Innovation Model
As part of government ODA efforts, the Export-Import Bank of Korea invested about 100 
million dollars to support the establishment of a higher education institute in Kenya. If 
this project is successful, KAIST will provide consulting on the design of the science and 
technology curriculums and university operations. The Kenya Vision 2030 emphasizes the 
importance of science and technology in economic development, and uses KAIST as a 
benchmark to build a similar institute in Kenya. The Kenya Advanced Institute of Science 
and Technology will be the first attempt to localize the KAIST model, which has proved 
successful in fostering science and engineering talent and technology domestication.
KAIST has already rendered education and research support at the level of individual 
faculties and universities in Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America, and KAIST has 
encouraged student participation in such activities. It has participated in joint research 
on educational policies under the Global Education Support Project of the National 
Research Foundation of Korea and projects aimed at improving educational ODA. As 
for the fields concerning the demand survey of 2015–2016 and educational cooperation 
support, KAIST’s diverse experiences acquired through the project on “installation and 
operation of sustainable living lab” will also prove valuable in the establishment of the 
Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology. 
2. Expansion of Global Volunteer Opportunities for Students
Students can enjoy more volunteer opportunities through the KAIST Global Student 
Volunteers. In 2016, KAIST students provided high-quality programming education under 
World Friends IT Volunteers, an overseas volunteer group dedicated to IT education and 
cultural exchange for students in developing countries. The volunteers taught Windows, 
MS Office, Photoshop, and webpage-making to 350 students in Addis Ababa Institute 
117
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!of Technology in Ethiopia. This can serve as a benchmark in the expansion of volunteer 
opportunities for KAIST students. 
3.   Redefining Role and Value of University in Light of Recent Shift in Global 
Socioeconomic Paradigm
KAIST must be able to present directions for the future and serve as a role model 
for other universities by creating global value. It will set the new roles as a research-
oriented/transdisciplinary/entrepreneurial university, and develop measures to promote 
cooperation among global universities. 
3. Establishment of KAIST Strategic Research Center 
The construction of a strategic research center is proposed to draw up creative ideas 
with consideration of nation-level factors and future trends. It will be more effective 
to construct the center under the direct supervision of the president. Creative faculty 
groups will be assembled, comprising faculty members capable of addressing “What” 
questions, such as “What do we need?” and “What should we make?” The faculty should 
be transdisciplinary, coming from the fields of humanities, social sciences, business, 
engineering, and science. The Seoul Hongneung and Dogok-dong campuses can be 
utilized for close cooperation with industries on market/economy issues and education/
research/commercialization. The establishment of a separate monitoring organization 
will be useful in analyzing the pros and cons of the current system in its operation. In 
this manner, the strategic research center will enable long-term monitoring of KAIST’s 
progress towards VISION 2031.
118•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University4. From 2017 to 2071–KAIST’s 100th Year Anniversary 
Taking the Next Leap Forward
Based on its reflection over the past 50 years, KAIST must establish a long-term vision 
in preparation for its 100th year anniversary. As a young university with less than 50 
years of history, it is time for KAIST to prepare for a new chapter and take the next leap 
forward. With the goal of emerging as a top global university in 2031, which coincides 
with its 60th anniversary, KAIST will lay out mid/long-term strategies under VISION 2031. 
The successful implementation of  VISION 2031 is expected to lay the foundation for the 
fulfillment of KAIST's mission and meet future demands by its 100th year anniversary in 
2071.
Innovative DNA + Social Responsibility, Social Entrepreneurship
Lack of value assessment may be used as a pretext for sociopolitical manipulation in 
the development or utilization of technology. For instance, technology can be misused 
as a tool to attain certain political goals. The direction and purpose of technology are 
determined by the values upheld by society. Nuclear weapons can destroy human life, 
but nuclear materials can be used to treat cancer and generate electricity. As another 
example, artificial intelligence can have different effects depending on the values upheld 
by society. The direction of technology innovation is influenced by social priorities and 
values. The development of technology may not always be consistent with that of society. 
Continuous efforts must be made to ensure that the development and application of 
technology contribute to creating desirable values for society/economy/politics/culture. 
KAIST must re-establish its principles and philosophy to enhance universal values while 
maintaining innovation in science and technology. This can be achieved by adopting a 
global perspective, extending beyond the boundaries of KAIST and Korea. One important 
mission of KAIST since its establishment was to “contribute to the nation’s economic 
development through science and technology.” In the next fifty years, it should focus on 
bringing out sustainable solutions to global issues and challenges faced by humanity. 
Generating economic value is an important aspect, but KAIST should place greater 
119
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!emphasis on using science and technology to derive “creative, ambitious, sociocultural” 
values, which may not necessarily be economically quantifiable. In sum, KAIST must 
adopt a global outlook and reset its mission. Accordingly, the members of KAIST must 
work together and concentrate on achieving VISION 2031.
5. Action List
The action list contains clear, specific actions to be taken to execute the key innovation 
strategies defined above. 
1. Short-Term Action Items for 2021
A. Education Innovation
Under education innovation, KAIST will recruit talent with creative potential. It will adjust 
student quotas to recruit students of various backgrounds, possessing C3. Additional 
criteria will be added to evaluate social competence and potential, including C3 (Challenge, 
Creativity, Caring).
< Action Items of Education Innovation >
Classification Current Improvement
Undergra-
duate 
programHigher proportion of students 
from gifted high schools and 
science high schools  
• Gifted/science high school : 
General high school = 7 : 3Selection of students who possess C3 with 
a more balanced distribution between 
gifted/science high schools and general 
high schools 
Higher proportion of male and 
Korean students 
• Male : Female = 8 : 2
• Korean : International =  
94.1 : 5.9Increase in proportion of female students 
and socially challenged
Increase in proportion of international 
students from leading foreign high 
schools (80 students/year) 
※   Improved assessment methods,  
including quantification of results from 
various international exams
120•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityDocument 
screening 
(Stage 1)Comprehensive 
evaluation based on 
academic performance, 
school records, statement 
of purpose, and letters of 
recommendation Emphasis on C3 in addition to existing 
method of evaluation 
•  (Challenge, Creativity) R&E, student clubs, 
experiential activities
•  (Caring spirit, sense of community) 
Volunteering, group activities, relationship 
with peers, filial piety, and exemplary 
performance
•  (Leadership) Performance as class 
leaders or student club leaders
Interview
(Stage 2)Comprehensive 
evaluation based on 
academic competence
(problem-solving in 
mathematics and science) 
and social capacitiesIn-depth evaluation with separate sessions 
for academic and social capacities 
•  (Increase in interview preparation time) 20 
min (‛17) → 35 min ( ‛18) → 55 min ( ‛19) 
•  (Additional evaluation by category) 20 min 
(‛18) → 40 min ( ‛19)
☞   Session 1 (20 min): In-depth academic 
evaluation of mathematics, science, 
english, etc. 
☞   Session 2 (20 min): Comprehensive 
evaluation of social capacities, including 
core values such as “challenge,” 
“creativity,” and “caring”
In addition, KAIST will appoint honorary alumni as admission officers. Outstanding 
international students will be recruited through improved policies, such as the embassy 
recommendation system, expos for students on government scholarships, cooperation 
with international faculty, visits to high schools of international students, and support for 
related promotional activities. 
Transdisciplinary courses for freshmen will be strengthened. The School of 
Transdisciplinary Studies will be put in place based on a reorganization of academic 
units, curriculum development, and faculty recruitment (10 new faculty members by 
2021). KAIST will promote convergence between humanities and social sciences by 
holding transdisciplinary meetings (two to three times a year) and providing lectures on 
humanities and social sciences through faculty exchange with universities specializing 
in science and technology. It will drive innovation in the social value-oriented education 
121
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!under the agreement with the Korea Foundation for Advanced Studies (September 2018; 
goal of at least 10 billion won over the next five years). 
Education methods will be upgraded to better the competence of creative, 
transdisciplinary talent. To create a Virtual University environment, KAIST will increase 
the number of network classrooms and teamwork rooms to 20 and 50, respectively, by 
2021. In addition, it will develop and utilize Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs).
< The Number of KAIST MOOCs  >
KOOCs 
(KAIST MOOCs), 
Coursera, 
K-MOOCsYear 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Developed 14 20 25 30 40
Accumulated 41 61 86 116 156
The Education 4.0 program will also be expanded.
< The Number of Education 4.0 Program  >
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Classes per year 138(5%) 170 200 250 400(15%)
No. of classrooms (accumulated) 3(21) 5(26) 5(31) 6(37) 8(45)
KAIST will participate in the STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, 
Mathematics) COLLEGE, supervised by the Korea Foundation for the Advancement 
of Science & Creativity. This is a future-oriented science and engineering educational 
program that ties together elementary, middle, and high school curricula, and 
implements job-creating/problem-solving STEAM projects. Forty courses will be selected 
across the five universities specializing in science and technology.
A student honor code will be introduced to instill a sense of ethics among students, and 
to facilitate the administration of unsupervised tests. 
B. Research Innovation
Under research innovation, the following short-term items are proposed. 
122•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityFirst, KAIST will operate a cross-generational collaboration lab system and designate at 
least 30 labs to be involved.
KAIST will build a research planning control tower to strengthen research planning. It 
will undertake planning and implementation of block funding for the fourth industrial 
revolution, and prioritize seed projects in funding allocation. Creative, risk-taking research 
support will be provided with focus on the 13 strategic projects selected by the Ministry of 
Science and ICT.
To share the latest research information, KAIST will introduce RIMS (Researcher 
Information Management System) Discovery, which is a comprehensive database used 
to analyze the trends of researchers, research achievements, and latest publications. The 
RIMS Research Report will be employed as a platform for the sharing of knowledge with 
businesses and research institutes. 
KAIST will upgrade its research system. It will improve policies on balance accumulation, 
recruit IP attorneys, and shorten the contract process for corporate projects and 
international joint research. 
More support will be given to risk-taking research. Researchers who break the mold 
of conventional research and make new discoveries will be provided with additional 
equipment, as the KC30 project is expanding into KC30 (KAIST Grand Challenge + 
seed money for Crazy but Grand Ideas). Assisted creative research will be conducted to 
develop transdisciplinary technology that maximizes human creativity and other skills 
irreplaceable by AI. 
KAIST will cultivate world-leading transdisciplinary research groups. For this purpose, 
it will establish three transdisciplinary research institutes, and foster five KAIST flagship 
transdisciplinary research groups by 2021. It will open a transdisciplinary building for 
the age of the fourth industrial revolution, and support related research, including the 
national defense 4.0 research and education projects. Outstanding transdisciplinary 
research projects will be integrated with flagship projects under VISION 2031 and 
developed into large-scale national projects. In addition, it will identify issues through the 
AI World Cup, expand AI education, and select promising projects through the Venture 
Research Program for Graduate Students, so as to fulfill the World Leading AI Initiative. 
123
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!C. Technology Commercialization Innovation 
Under technology commercialization innovation, the following short-term items are 
proposed. 
By 2021, entrepreneurship will be introduced as a mandatory subject for 50% of 
undergraduates. The entrepreneurship curriculum will also be reorganized. The 
entrepreneurial curriculum platform and Business Analytics (BA) curriculum platform 
will be operated for all MBA programs. Advanced capstone design classes, which involve 
project-based learning, will be extended to all departments, under which courses are 
recognized as basic electives in the humanities, recognized as required/elective major 
courses, or used as substitutes for thesis research. Students will be recruited for the 
Master of Entrepreneurship & Innovation, a degree program run jointly by the K-School 
and 18 departments. The Graduate Minor Program in Entrepreneurship will be launched 
for enrolled students on KAIST scholarships or national scholarships, and the CUop 
program will be strengthened in cooperation with universities specializing in science and 
technology. 
An entrepreneurial support infrastructure will be installed. The Institute for Startup KAIST 
will be reorganized to boost its competence in entrepreneurial support. Regulations on 
faculty and student startups will be amended, so as to promote and facilitate research-
based startups by eliminating possible obstacles in the startup launching process for 
faculty and students. In addition, the faculty evaluation system will be improved. Faculty 
contributions will be acknowledged when students launch startups based on research 
conducted under the supervision of advisors.
KAIST will create intellectual property and refine its management process. Experts 
will be recruited to enhance investments, technology transfers, and professionalism 
in commercialization. The institute will cooperate with Israel’s Yeda and other experts 
capable of identifying and commercializing outstanding technologies, in order to 
successfully found technology in-kind investment companies and raise its competence in 
technology transfers. 
Venture support will be expanded to create more jobs for the general public at the 
national level. Through the Open Venture Lab, KAIST will 1) supply a free space for 
124•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universitybusiness startups (including office and internet infrastructure) to anyone who wants to 
start a venture during a certain period of time, 2) have its faculty provide basic training, 
consulting, and mentoring, and 3) forge a nationwide success model in cooperation 
with related companies and government agencies. Through the K-Industry 4.0, KAIST 
will 1) enhance national competitiveness and maximize job creation through the 
growth of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 2) establish the SME 4.0 
production innovation platform to facilitate small quantity batch production by integrating 
manufacturing and ICT, such as cloud, AI, and big data, and 3) build the E-School* control 
tower to generate future leaders of the fourth industrial revolution.
[*Fostering of transdisciplinary talent with focus on Employment, Entrepreneurship, and 
E-learning]
Furthermore, KAIST will organize startup idea contests and provide seed capital. 1) The 
general public will be invited to submit startup ideas, and winners will receive partial 
funding. 2) The winners will have a space assigned in the Open Venture Lab and get 
priority in accessing related services. 
To increase technology investments and establish university-industry cooperative clusters, 
KAIST will undertake the following. It will promote the establishment of technology in-
kind investment companies. For this purpose, 1) promising technologies and companies 
will be identified through investment council meetings and external cooperation, and 
investment types will be diversified into joint ventures, investment in an existing company, 
and investment in a new startup. 2) Investment companies will be selected and managed 
based on a pre-assessment of their potential for success (technical, market validation). 
KAIST will expand technology transfers and commercialization through strategic creation 
of intellectual property. It will 1) actively respond to infringements of rights, by taking steps 
that include the establishment of strategies for patent protection, royalty negotiations, 
and filing of lawsuits. 2) IP protection and funding will be strengthened through strategic 
cooperation with leading law firms and the Korean Intellectual Property Office. 3) IP 
professionalism and efficiency will be enhanced based on cooperation with local/
international patent offices, and international technology transfers will be raised. KAIST 
will promote investments in incubating companies (KAIST startups, technology transfer 
companies). To this end, it will 1) offer strategic consulting and cooperate with investment 
125
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!companies, and 2) organize IR forums to attract accelerators, VCs, and CVCs. KAIST will 
make university-industry cooperative clusters by sharing its research achievements with 
small- and medium-sized enterprises in Seongnam through the K-GLOBAL project, 
and supporting them in attaining world-class standards. It will draw up new criteria 
in selecting incubating companies, and focus on fostering technology-based startups 
with the potential for growth in the age of the fourth industrial revolution. KAIST will 
embark on regional cooperation projects based on regional and national expansion of 
entrepreneurial education through MOOCs. Lastly, it will build two overseas branches in 
a bid to establish a startup support hub in Asia.
D. Globalization Innovation 
Under globalization innovation, the following short-term items are proposed. 
First, KAIST will secure outstanding international faculty, students, and researchers 
by 2021. It will formulate and implement measures to sharpen the linguistic skills 
of staff members through customized education in the form of diversified language 
programs (hours, type, content). New student exchange programs such as research 
student exchange and visiting student programs (for-credit courses) will be developed. 
International members will be able to adjust more rapidly with the implementation of 
cultural integration policies, including cultural experiences through Korean language 
learning, vitalization of temple stay programs, and promotion of the KAIST ONE program. 
Various improvements will be made for the welfare of international members. Children 
of international faculty will be given additional educational subsidies at Taejon Christian 
International School (TCIS), and KAIST professors will be invited to participate in the 
TCIS Lecture Series. The KAIST Daycare Center will level up its competence, and the 
international food corner in school cafeterias will be gradually expanded. Outstanding 
teams in Humanity/Leadership II under the Global Leadership Activity (GLA) program 
will have the opportunity to visit Southeast Asia. With the launch of the KAIST Global 
Leadership Center (KGLC) Fellow program, up to ten leadership experts will be appointed 
to serve as mentors to students. 
Second, KAIST will build overseas campuses. A research institute will open under the 
support of the Chongqing Municipal Government, and ELK (KAIST alumni company) will 
126•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading Universitygive overseas training opportunities for ten undergraduate students by sending them to 
Silicon Valley companies, research institutes, and universities in the United States.
Third, KAIST will take the initiative in global research. As an international research 
hub, the institute will invite world-leading researchers and organize joint research and 
international symposiums. It will engage in more active exchange with strategic partner 
universities in the form of student exchange, joint research, and seed funds for exchange 
programs. 
Finally, KAIST will transfer its development model to developing countries. It will increase 
overseas volunteering activities and accelerate efforts in the establishment of the Kenya 
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.
2. Long-Term Action Items for 2031
A. Education Innovation
In the age of the fourth industrial revolution, advancements of humanity are driven by 
innovations in science and technology. As such, the question of “What kind of science 
and technology should we foster?” will be an important issue in determining national 
competitiveness. To play a leading role amidst such changes, KAIST must strive to 
cultivate creative transdisciplinary leaders who are capable of enhancing the social value 
of science and technology.
First, KAIST will present a model of education to train global leaders for the fourth 
industrial revolution under the School of Transdisciplinary Studies. The non-
departmental track of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies will contribute to fostering 
transdisciplinary talent with a solid foundation in basic science and engineering, and 
the ability to adapt to the changing environment while working across disciplines. The 
Steering Committee for the Establishment of the School of Transdisciplinary Studies 
will be formed to supervise curriculum design and course development plans, with 
the goal of launching the program in March 2019. The installation of the School of 
Transdisciplinary Studies will offer students more diverse majors to choose from.
KAIST will upgrade its global competence. It will consider the future role of students on 
127
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!the global stage, and prepare them by instilling a global perspective. They will be taught 
to reflect on 1) how to change the world as a Global Shaper, 2) how to drive innovation in 
the world as a Global Innovator, and 3) how to move the world as a Global Mover. KAIST 
will extend opportunities for students to develop a passion for volunteering, embrace 
challenges, make sacrifices, and take responsibility as leaders by 1) organizing global 
volunteering activities, and 2) inviting Nobel laureates and other global leaders to interact 
with students and serve as their role models. 
KAIST will develop and exploit innovative lecture models. It will present degree programs 
that integrate a smart learning infrastructure that includes EDU 4.0 and KOOCs with 
educational know-how, and drive innovation in student-centered education through 
Flipped Learning and MOOCs. As part of efforts to give back to society, KAIST will expand 
its virtual campus for the upskilling of businesspeople. It will set out retraining programs 
for the companies seeking to enhance competitiveness with the advent of the fourth 
industrial revolution. Real-time distance classes will be provided for businesspeople to 
study and work at the same time. By 2031, it will expand the free semester program, and 
increase the number of Education 4.0 courses to account for 50% (1,500 per year) of the 
total. Modularized content will be developed for 50% of the courses offered. 
< The Number of Education 4.0 Courses  >
Year 2021 2026 2031
Classes per year 400(15%) 900(30%) 1,500(50%)
No. of classrooms (accumulated) 8(45) 15(60) 20(80)
B. Research Innovation
KAIST will construct a transdisciplinary research building to support transdisciplinary 
research in preparation for the fourth industrial revolution. Transdisciplinary research 
has become essential with the acceleration of transdisciplinary practices in the age of 
digital transformation. For KAIST to play a leading role in the fourth industrial revolution, 
“transdisciplinary research” areas should be combined to form a meta-transdisciplinary 
research platform. Accordingly, ten transdisciplinary research centers will be established 
by 2031. 
128•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityKAIST will identify and concentrate its resources on 10 Flagship Strategic Research 
Areas. The 10 Flagship Strategic Research Areas elicited from VISION 2031 are: 1) 
six research areas intended to solve global issues in relation to the fourth industrial 
revolution, 2) two research areas in bio/medicine/medical science/healthcare, 3) one 
research area in energy/renewable energy/environment, and 4) one research area in 
national defense technology. 
A successful model for cross-generational collaboration labs will be set up. KAIST will be 
the first in Korea to sustain academic success across generations based on cooperation 
between senior and junior faculty. By 2031, it will designate and support at least 60 cross-
generational collaboration labs. 
KAIST will vitalize collaboration with industries, universities, and research institutes. It will 
pursue open innovation and collaborative research. The triple helix model of cooperation 
involving industries, universities, and research institutes will be enforced, enabling 
KAIST to mature into an open innovation hub, where institutes and talent from Daedeok 
Innopolis and beyond gather to collaborate in innovative pursuits.
Bio/medical
National defense/security/aerospaceFourth industrial revolution
Wise Brain
Understanding of brain function/
treatment of brain diseasesSuper Intelligence Initiative
Future artificial intelligence
Hyperconnection photonics
Hyperconnected information
processing
New material revolution
New material development/
molecular printingNext-generation Precision medicine platform
Treatment of  cancer/incurable diseases
Energy cloud
Renewable energy production
/storage/distribution
Intelligent unmanned systems
Future warfare and  cyber securitySpace technology innovation
Space innovation
Energy/environmentOvercoming
challenges faced by
humanity and
countries!
Quantum Technology
Next-generation computing/
information and communications
R&S CPHES
Smart infrastructure
for disaster/safety management
< 10 Flagship Strategic Research Areas  >
129
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!C. Technology Commercialization Innovation
The R&DB of universities is extremely important not only in expanding funds, but also in 
creating jobs for youth and improving national competitiveness. 
KAIST must maximize its intellectual property and economic outcomes by encouraging 
the launch of technology in-kind investment companies and startups. It must foster 
technology commercialization experts to enhance competence in identifying promising 
technology and companies. 
By 2031, entrepreneurship will be a mandatory subject for all undergraduates. Various 
policies will be forged to support selected technologies and companies, and general 
startup-related regulations will be reviewed to expedite the startup cycle. For an 
entrepreneurial culture to take root, KAIST will introduce successful cases of student 
startups and invite well-known entrepreneurs to inspire students by sharing their 
experiences.
Various methods will be employed to build a solid cooperation infrastructure. More 
specifically, KAIST will expand its startup supporting infrastructure from the Institute of 
Startup KAIST to Pangyo and Gangnam in the Yangjae R&CD Innovation Hub. 
In terms of investments for technology commercialization, KAIST must accelerate 
commercialization of its outstanding technologies by cooperating with investors at 
home and abroad. It has signed an MOU for research cooperation and technology 
commercialization with Israel’s Yozma Fund, and is devising measures for more active 
cooperation. 
With the advent of the fourth industrial revolution, the business environment has 
undergone dramatic changes. In particular, small- and medium-sized enterprises 
constitute a significant portion of the national economy, accounting for 99.9% of local 
businesses and 87% of jobs. KAIST plans to lead the smart transformation of small- and 
medium-sized enterprises through the K-Industry 4.0, and form a world-class smart 
factory based on its outstanding human resources and technologies.
130•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityD. Globalization Innovation
Globalization is not an option, but a must. For this, KAIST will establish a Korean-English 
Bilingual Campus. It will expand opportunities to improve proficiency in English, and 
offer more Korean language programs to international members. It will develop cultural 
experience programs that integrate Korean language learning, and enforce the use of 
both Korean and English in information sharing media, including the KAIST Portal. 
KAIST must also form a global campus environment. It will identify the issues faced by 
international students and find solutions through active counseling. The international 
food corner in school cafeterias will be gradually expanded, and the KAIST Daycare 
Center will raise its competence. Through close cooperation with Taejon Christian 
International School, international faculty will be given educational subsidies for their 
children. 
Another important aspect is to enhance KAIST’s international reputation. KAIST 
will strengthen ties with the World Economic Forum (WEF) and other international 
organizations through the joint organization of international events. Its excellence in 
education, research, and technology commercialization will be promoted at international 
events organized by the organizations that present university ranking such as THE 
and QS. In addition, it will emerge as a leader in KAIST-initiated fields of science and 
technology (fifth industrial revolution). 
By 2031, KAIST will have constructed at least one overseas campus. It will contribute to 
the economic growth of developing countries through the establishment of the KAIST 
Spirit & Mind Foundation.
E. Future Strategy Innovation
The key to future strategy innovation is to consolidate a “virtuous self-reinforcing system.” 
This will supply infrastructure for effective implementation of innovation strategies in 
education, research, technology commercialization, and globalization under VISION 2031, 
and ensure sustainable growth based on transparent assessment and motivation.
In establishing future strategies for VISION 2031, KAIST must optimize its organization, 
human resources, and funds to become a “global value-creative leading university and 
131
Ⅴ Conclusion
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!one of the world’s top 10.” The future strategies will serve as principles in setting basic 
directions for the four innovation divisions.
The principles behind the implementation of future strategies are as follows. 1) KAIST 
will exert efforts to make contributions to humanity in accordance with its founding spirit 
and sense of duty to the nation 2) It will create a culture that emphasizes not only the 
core values of “challenge” and “creativity,” but also integrates a caring and giving spirit. 
3) It will ensure the sustainability of strategies by sharing its vision among members and 
passing on the message to future generations. 4) It will engage in holistic education and 
research through the convergence of science and technology, as well as the cultural arts. 
KAIST will build the KAIST Future Strategy Research Center, a think tank group that 
devises future strategies for KAIST and presents solutions to national issues in this age 
of uncertainty. Instead of solving pre-defined problems or simply setting directions for the 
nation, humanity and science and technology, KAIST will transform itself into a university 
that independently defines problems by extending from HOW-focused research to WHAT-
focused research. The KAIST Future Strategy Research Center acts as a think tank in 
making predictions for future society based on science and technology innovation. It will 
be in charge of long-term, continuous monitoring to ensure the institute’s commitment 
to VISION 2031. 
KAIST will organize an international forum on the fourth industrial revolution in 
cooperation with the World Economic Forum (WEF). The forum will be attended by 
Klaus Schwab, the executive chairman of  WEF who introduced the notion of the fourth 
industrial revolution. The event is expected to stimulate discussions on related global 
agendas and future strategies. KAIST will cooperate closely with WEF to become a role 
model in the age of the fourth industrial revolution and elevate its international standing. 
132•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading University6. Closing Remarks
If all members of KAIST do their utmost to attain the goals outlined 
in VISION 2031, the institute will be able to achieve its grand vision of 
becoming a global value-creative leading university  that contributes 
to the happiness and prosperity of humanity through innovation in 
science and technology.  This holds great significance as a follow-
up to the vision presented in the Terman Report, which served 
as the foundation of development in the years following KAIST’s 
establishment in 1971, and provides momentum for the second great 
leap.
On the completion of the second Terman Report in the form of 
VISION 2031:
(By 2031) KAIST will have spearheaded the fourth industrial revolution 
via innovation in education, research, technology commercialization 
and globalization. Even more important, KAIST will have promoted 
the pride of Koreans, and will have become a cornerstone in the 
establishment of an advanced country.
VISION 2031  Committee
• Appendix
1. Progress
2. VISION 2031 CommitteeMaking a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!
Challenge, Creativity, CaringA Global Value -Creative Leading University

135
Appendix
Making a Beautiful Difference Beyond Imagination!Attachment 1. Progress
Major Progress
17. 04. 04. Held 1st VISION 2031 Committee Meeting
17. 04. 05.  - 08. 15.Held Subcommittee Meetings 
(Establishment vision and action items for each division)
17. 05. 02. Held the 2nd VISION 2031 Committee Meeting
17. 06. 13. Held the 3rd VISION 2031 Committee Meeting
17. 07. 03. Held the 4th VISION 2031 Committee Meeting
17. 08. 16.Held the 5th VISION 2031 Committee Meeting 
(presenting vision and action items for each division)
17. 08. 16. Held the 1st External Commissioner Meeting 
17. 09. 15.  - 09. 16. VISION 2031 Draft presentation & discussion (Faculty Workshop)
17. 09. 17.  - 11. 08. Held Subcommittee Meetings (Review of opinions)
17. 11. 09VISION 2031(draft) Presentation and discussion 
(Internal public hearing)
17. 11. 21. Held the 2nd External Commissioner Meeting 
17. 11. 22. - 12. 12. Held the Subcommittee Meeting (Review of opinions)
17. 11. 29. - 12. 08. VISION 2031 Slogan Contest
17. 12. 13. Held the 6th VISION 2031 Committee Meeting
18. 01. 05. Selecting VISION 2031 Slogan
18. 02. 06. Deliberation of Faculty Council
18. 02. 27. Report to the Board
18. 03. 09. Held the 3rd External Commissioner Meeting 
18. 03. 20. VISION 2031 Declaration Ceremony
136•  VISION 2031 - A Global Value-Creative Leading UniversityAttachment 2. VISION 2031 Committee
VISION 2031 Committee (143 persons)
President Sung-Chul Shin
Co-
ChairpersonsKwang-Hyung Lee  (Dean of Moon Soul Graduate School of Future Strategy)
O-Ok Park  (Provost & Executive Vice President)
Expert 
Committee(Division Chairperson)
-   Kwang-Hyung Lee   
(Dean of Moon Soul Graduate School of Future Strategy)
(Commissioner)
-   Internal (12 persons), External (19 persons)
Education 
Innovation (Division Chairperson)
-   Dong-Soo Kwon  (Department of Mechanical Engineering) 
-   Tae-Eog Lee   
(Director of Center for Excellence in Learning & Teaching)
(Commissioner) 
-   Internal (21 persons), External (5 persons) 
Research 
Innovation  (Division Chairperson)
-   Soon-Hyung Hong   
(Department of Materials Science & Engineering) 
-   Hee-Kyung Park  (Vice President for Research)
(Commissioner) 
-   Internal (19 persons), External (5 persons)
Technology 
Commercialization 
Innovation (Division Chairperson)
-   Zong-Tae Bae  (School of Management Engineering)
-   Byoung-Yoon Kim  (Dean of Institute for Startup KAIST)
(Commissioner)
-   Internal (18 persons), External (6 persons)
Globalization 
Innovation (Division Chairperson)
-   Sun-Chang Kim  (Department of Biological Sciences)
-   Soo-Hyun Kim  (Vice President for Planning & Budget)
(Commissioner) 
-   Internal (19 persons)
Secretary Bowon Kim  (Associate Vice President, Office of Planning and Budget)


