Korea University’s Social Engagement and 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)2020-2021
Korea University Social Service OrganizationKorea University SDGs
2020-2021
Korea University’s Social Engagement and 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Korea University’s Social Engagement and 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)2020-2021
President's message
Committed to a Sustainable Future, Korea 
University Leads Social Engagement in the 
New Normal Era
The digital revolution, represented by artificial intelligence (AI), Big Data, the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
information and communication technologies (ICT), has opened the way to a new era beyond our imagination. 
As the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating the pace of such a radical change in the world and 
intensifying social inequalities and conflicts, now is a time when all of humanity must come together in solidarity 
and cooperation. 
Over the past 116 years, Korea University has been a beacon of hope for society, and it now strives to take on a key 
role in the ‘New Normal era’. While the pandemic has changed every aspect of our lives, society’s expectations of 
universities remain the same: to solve complex social problems and create new social values. It is an expectation that 
grows in times of chaos and turbulence.
Korea University will redefine its role in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It will 
teach students values represented in the goals in a bid to cultivate a pool of talented individuals who are able to 
contribute to the SDGs. Korea University will pursue global social values and solve shared social problems to open 
the way for a brighter future.
At Korea University, social engagement activities have been taking place since the pre-COVID era under the 
leadership of the KU Social Service Organization (KUSSO). The focus has been on helping Korea University students 
internalize the values of living together and caring about others. Each year, more than two thousand students take 
part in 60-plus social engagement programs in Korea and abroad. Although the pandemic has made face-to-face 
participation in these programs difficult, KUSSO has not stopped its contributions to society. It continues its social 
engagement by running an educational Youtube channel and supporting various volunteer activities to reduce social 
and educational inequalities in the new normal era. 
The purpose of this white paper is to provide an overview of Korea University’s social engagement activities, 
promote the importance of the SDGs in university education, and design and deliver specific plans to help achieve 
the SDGs. Korea University will strive to establish common values for humanity and cultivate talent in action to solve 
social and global problems.
Based on its social engagement activities, Korea University will continue to foster research efforts and nurture talent 
to help humanity fight this pandemic and create the breakthroughs of tomorrow. 
Korea University President, 
Jin Taek CHUNG
PART 1. 
KU’s Social Services and 
Social Engagement
PART 2. 
SDGs and University 
Contributions
PART 3. 
KU’s Social Contribution 
Activities
References 1. Introduction to KUSSO
2. KU’s Social Services and Social Engagement
3. Social Services and Social Engagement in the New Normal Era
3-1. Social Service Activities in the New Normal Era
3-2. Closing Gaps in Education with Contactless Volunteering
3-3. Social Problem-Solving Projects
3-4. Education YouTube Channel
 
1. Universities Engagement in the SDGs   
1-1. Universities and the SDGs
1-2. How universities can contribute to the SDGs
1-3. The SDG-engaged university
2. KU’s Engagement and Opportunities
2-1. Social Service Organization (Undergraduates)
2-2. Social Engagement Organization (Graduates)
2-3. Symposiums and Research on the SDGs 
1. Activities of Relevant Departments
2. 2020 KU Social Contribution Table of Contents 
1. Introduction to KUSSO
    Vision ⅠFoundation Principles ⅠOrg Chart                                         
2. KU’s Social Services and Social Engagement
3. Social Services and Social Engagement in the New Normal Era
3-1. Social Service Activities in the New Normal Era
3-2. Closing Gaps in Education with Contactless Volunteering
3-3. Social Problem-Solving Projects
3-4. Education YouTube Channel2020-2021
Korea University’s Social 
Engagement and the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)Part 1.
KU’s Social Services and 
Social Engagement
10
Korea Universtiy SDGs 11
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
2021 Volunteer Programs officially launched. 
Vision Statement
As a world-class university with over a century of history committed to meet the demand of the future 
society, Korea University aims to cultivate new generations of intellectuals who will make a better future for 
humanity. Korea university has promoted the value of sharing as one of the qualities required to become a 
true leader and responsible intellectual. The purpose of Korea university is not limited to advancing academic 
development. Korea university strongly believes that justice and ethics based on knowledge will help KU 
students become better citizens.
In light of this purpose, our vision is to strive to serve society and the world with “a cool head and warm 
heart”. The members of KUSSO will spare no effort to practice the virtues necessary to become true global 
leaders and to meet the needs of the times. 
• Our vision is to cultivate ethical intellectuals who serve humanity and society.
• Our vision is to cultivate global leaders who transcend national boundaries.
• Our vision is to cultivate intellectuals who contribute to the future of humanity. 1. Introduction to KU Social Service Organization  
(KUSSO) 
12
Korea Universtiy SDGs 13
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
Foundational Principles Organization Chart and Structure
Supporting social engagement 
and SDGsSupporting research and 
education activitiesSupporting social service 
activities
Universities’ social engagement 
and public interest activitiesResearch and education activities 
related to social servicesDeveloping and promoting social 
service activities at home and 
abroad and creative social service 
programs
• Vnarod movement
• Hope initiative for North Korean 
defectors
• Multicultural family settlement 
project
• Disabled student startup program
• Global sharing activities • Research and education related to 
social services   
• Supporting rehabilitation training 
for the socially disadvantaged 
• Supporting education on social 
service activities
• Training volunteer project 
managers
• Technical training on social 
services• Student social service organization
• Crimson Social Service 
Organization
• KUSSO OB(Alumni)
• KU Family Volunteer Program
• Living Labs & ChangemakersKUSSO Practices the Value of caring for people in needKUSSO 
KUSSO’s Three Management StrategiesSince its inception in December 2008, KUSSO has striven to help those in need in society. The 
members of KUSSO will continue their effort to fulfill their responsibility as intellectuals to meet the 
needs of the times and to serve society and the world. 
Cultivating civically-minded 
and caring members of society 
through educationResearching on how to better 
serve society Cultivating morally responsible 
members of society through 
continuous communication 01 
Education02 
Research03 
CommunicationKU President
KUSSO Vice 
Director
KUSSO Support 
Department
Social Service 
Organization
(undergraduates)Social Engagement 
Organization
(graduates)KUSSO Director KUSSO Steering CommitteeGraduate School
Social Engagement Steering 
Committee
14
Korea Universtiy SDGs 15
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
■ Universities should go beyond social responsibility and find solutions to social 
problems 
Universities are being asked to serve as living labs and drive social innovation and transformation through 
interdisciplinary convergence research to ensure the sustainable development of society. They are also being 
asked to make social responsibility and social contribution by adopting the ‘Creating Shared Value’ (CSV) 
approach based on the ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ (SDGs).    
In view of this approach, KUSSO recently established the Social Engagement Organization (graduates), a 
major-based organization for graduate students, to integrate undergraduate-oriented social service activities 
with the skills, knowledge, and resources of graduate students and, in turn, to achieve the SDGs and CSV 
more systematically and concretely.
■ The Social Engagement Organization will activate major-based research activities on 
social engagement
The members of the Social Engagement Organization (graduates) will use their disciplinary knowledge and 
skills to support the research and development of creative social engagement programs, helping undergraduate 
students perform social service activities more skillfully and systematically. The Social Service Organization 
(undergraduates) and the Social Engagement Organization (graduates) will create a virtuous cycle of 
cooperation between the two sides through the joint operation and development of social engagement 
programs.
The Social Engagement Organization (graduates) can play a critical role in integrating the experience and 
knowledge of social service activities accumulated by the Social Service Organization (undergraduates) with 
the knowledge, skills, ideas, resources, and networks of the Social Engagement Organization (graduates), 
transcending the paradigm of social engagement. The Social Engagement Organization (graduates) will 
do its part in encouraging multidisciplinary, problem-solving social engagement activities to promote social 
transformation and innovation, and leading to the achievement of the SDGs and CSV.   2. KU’s Social Services and Social Engagement
Since its inception in December 2008, the members of KUSSO have been designing and implementing various 
social service programs.
To cultivate talents who can contribute to local communities and the global community, KUSSO has been 
conducting a wide range of student-led social service activities. KUSSO members and non-member students 
are participating in several social engagement programs and projects at home and abroad, through which 
they can develop qualities and experiences necessary to become leaders with social responsibility awareness.

16
Korea Universtiy SDGs 17
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
All these examples show that students’ participation in social engagement gives them opportunities to 
understand social issues and come up with solutions to tackle them using the knowledge and skills they 
have learned. Experiencing social service and social engagement activities help them gain insight into how 
their actions affect the local communities and develop a strong sense of social responsibility. This experience 
involves coordinating different opinions and cooperating and communicating with multiple parties, tasks 
which require some the skills and qualities necessary to become leaders of the 21st century (e.g. creativity, 
problem-solving capability, cooperation, communication, and a sense of social responsibility).
KUSSO strives to contribute to sustainable social development through various programs. KUSSO’s activities 
consist of three steps: recognizing social issues, exploring opportunities to solve them, and monitoring and 
evaluating activities implemented. KUSSO supports students’ social service activities by providing them with 
space and processes necessary for idea generation and encouraging them not to be afraid of taking risks.3. Social Services and Social Engagement in the 
New Normal Era
In the face of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the subsequent rapid changes in the social environment, 
the structure and role of higher education are also changing. The COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating the 
pace of changes around the world. Amid growing calls for preparation for the coming “new normal” era 
brought about by the pandemic, universities are seeking new ways to conduct social service activities by 
exploring new platforms and projects.   
2020 has been a year of sudden changes. KUSSO has had to halt some of its programs, and has been striving 
to course-correct. One solution has been to increase contactless volunteering opportunities. KUSSO has been 
operating a one-to-one tutoring program for disadvantaged student to close education gaps. The distance 
education program launched three years ago to help students in rural areas has proved particularly effective 
during the pandemic. As KUSSO members grew in experience and came up with more ideas, KUSSO started 
a Youtube Channel to provide cultural and emotional education content to disadvantaged students. KUSSO 
also started online overseas volunteering projects. Despite strict social distancing measures, KUSSO has 
continued to find new ways to communicate with the public by using online tools and resources.
Several new projects have also been launched. KUSSO created a website with coding for sharing COVID-
related information. “Corona-nearby,” an app that maps out neighborhoods where COVID-19 cases have 
surged and “Mask-nearby,” an app that shows the availability of medical masks in nearby pharmacies were 
well received by the users. Free art exhibitions to help beat the so-called corona blues, children’s stories 
designed to teach Korean culture to the children of multicultural families in Korea, and an online program to 
promote zero waste are some of the projects created based on ideas generated by KUSSO members. Recognition Opportunity Evaluation
18
Korea Universtiy SDGs 19
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
■ Spread hope and the value of sharing: talent donation exhibitions “I Meet you” and 
“Naemorang( ㅁ랑)”
COVID-19 has upended normal life, putting an end to most of our everyday activities. In August and 
November, KUSSO held two exhibitions that remind us of the value of meeting face-to-face. KUSSO members 
designed and organized the exhibitions under the theme of “My everyday life changed by COVID-19” by 
accepting donations of paintings, frames, postcards, and props from the volunteers of KUSSO’s educational 
programs and children and teenage students who are being helped by these programs. 
Undergraduate students scanned and digitized children’s drawings donated by Seongbuk-gu Healthy Families 
Multicultural Family Support Center and Beon-dong 3-danji General Welfare Center. Drawings created by 
visitors to the exhibitions were also displayed. Cambodian students who are learning Korean online and 
students of online discussion classes participated in the creation of exhibits for the November exhibition.
Proceeds from selling merchandise designed and made by the exhibition organizers and those made by 
children with developmental disabilities were donated to medical professionals and institutions in Korea. The 
purpose of the talent donation exhibitions was to give children, teenagers, and university students on either 
the giving or receiving end of volunteering to exhibit their works, reminding them that anyone can contribute 
to society. 3-1. Social Service Activities in the New Normal Era
Undergraduate students address challenges faced by society.
They come up with brilliant solutions to tackle social issues. 
Universities’ participation in social service and social engagement activities are expected to 
increase in the-post COVID-19 era.
■ “Corona-nearby” and “Mask-nearby” : web sites made by college students to 
alleviate some COVID-19 anxiety
Four members of a software venture club at Korea University developed two GPS-based web sites: “Corona-
nearby” (in February) and “Mask-nearby” (in March), which lets users know where COVID-19 cases are 
located and the availability of face masks in nearby pharmacies, respectively. During the early stages of the 
pandemic, when the number of infected cases started to increase rapidly, they created these information-
sharing web sites with coding.
“The idea was that we could reduce people’s anxiety over COVID-19 by visualizing COVID-19-related 
information provided by the government, like the locations of clinics and the contacts of infected people,” 
said one of the developers. They used their skills and knowledge to contribute to solve urgent social issues
KU students who developed “Corona-nearby” and “Mask-nearby” Talent donation exhibition “I Meet You”  
20
Korea Universtiy SDGs 21
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
■ “Mic Book” offers online distance learning courses on reading, discussion, and 
coding for local teenagers
KUSSO operates “Mic Book,” an online distance learning program for elementary, middle, and high school 
students living in rural areas with a lack of educational resources.
The Mic Book program consists of discussion and coding courses. Post-reading and current affairs discussion 
courses are conducted real-time online, whereas coding courses rely on pre-recorded videos. Initially, 13 
schools were supposed to participate in the program this year. But due to the COVID-19 situation, four 
schools participated in the first semester and ten schools in the second semester. 
KUSSO has been operating projects to close educational gaps between urban and rural areas, such as 
vacation education camps for schools across the country launched in 2009 and the interactive distance 
learning program Mic Book started in 2017. KUSSO provides partner schools around the country with these 
year-long education programs without limitations of time and space. Technology has helped KUSSO to 
contribute to the educational welfare of local students, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic.3-2. Closing Gaps in Education with Contactless Volunteering
A pandemic can’t stop volunteers.
Tackling the growing inequality in educational opportunities.
Online volunteer tutoring is not limited by time and space.
Developing social engagement activities that meet the needs of the New Normal era.
■ Future Sharing School’s remote mentoring program for disadvantaged high school 
students
‘The Future Sharing School’ is a three-year-long one-on-one academic and career mentoring program, 
matching 50 KU students and 50 first-grade high school students from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
This program, first launched in 2014 for 40 high school students, faced challenges this year due to the 
pandemic. And KUSSO came up with a remote mentoring program to overcome COVID-19 social distancing 
challenges. KU student mentors offer guidance and support in academic, personal, and career development 
through one-on-one mentoring sessions. 
Currently, the Future Sharing School program offers remote mentoring for disadvantaged students in three 
districts (Seongbuk-bu, Gangbuk-gu, and Nowon-gu) of Seoul, and plans to expand its services to all 26 
districts in Seoul in cooperation with the Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education, and to students from 
military families living near the DMZ in cooperation with the Republic of Korea Army Headquarters.
Future Sharing School mentors providing high school students with one-on-one academic guidance online Mentors and mentees of Mic Book courses
22
Korea Universtiy SDGs 23
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
3-3. Social Problem-Solving Projects: Project Based Learning (PBL)
■ Urban regeneration projects partnered with local 
communities in Gangwon-do: “Change Makers” of 
Goseong-gun and “Idea Living Lab” of Taebaek-city
KUSSO operates living labs to explore new research areas and 
methods based on cooperation between the public sector and 
academia. KUSSO launched a project titled “Change Makers,” 
in which teenage students in Goseong-gun and undergraduate 
students work together as a team to identify and solve local 
community issues. 
And it held the “Social Issue Idea Contest & Makerthon,” in which 
participants compete to develop and promote tour programs to 
facilitate urban regeneration in Taebaek-city.
■ An online project to solve social issues in Đà N ẵng, led 
by university volunteers from Korea and Vietnam Volunteers 
from Korea University and DONGA University in Vietnam 
are working on a problem-based learning (PBL)-centered 
social engagement program to solve social issues in Đà 
Nẵng, Vietnam. The students work together as a team for a 
semester to select and analyze a specific social problem and 
develop solutions for it. 
■ An online seminar and conference on the ecological 
environment of the Aral Sea in Uzbekistan
KUSSO will hold an online seminar and conference on the 
environmental issues and ecological restoration of the Aral 
Sea, Uzbekistan. Students from Korea University and the 
Plekhanov University of Economics meet online to share their 
analysis of ecosystem destruction caused by climate change 
and its socio-economic impact, and discuss ways to restore 
the ecosystem and economic growth opportunities, based on 
interviews with local residents.■ “Dream Come True,” an online Korean language course for teenagers in Siem Reap, 
Cambodia
Each year, KUSSO dispatches a team of volunteers to Siem Reap, Cambodia, for Korean language education 
and housing environment improvement projects. This year, however, due to the pandemic, KUSSO has 
decided to launch “Dream Come Ture,” an online Korean language course, which provides 17 middle and 
high school, and university students living near Siem Reap with one-on-one Korean language lessons online 
for six months.
“Dream Come True” program’s offline lessons used to be conducted in the form of short-term intensive 
courses, teaching Korean language and culture in the morning and afternoon sessions for a week. But the 
online lessons are conducted one-on-one once a week, and cover more material than offline lessons. For 
students who have been learning Korean from KUSSO members, the courses are divided into three levels, 
from beginner to advanced. The students submit their writing assignments every week by posting pictures or 
videos on Facebook.
 “Social Issue Idea Contest,” a living lab in Taebaek-city, Gangwon-do
24
Korea Universtiy SDGs 25
PART 1. KU's Social Services and Social Engagement
3-4. Education YouTube Channel 
■ A YouTube channel to provide educational content and promote KUSSO’s social 
service and social engagement activities
KUSSO created its own YouTube channel in 2020 to provide educational content and promote its social 
service and social engagement activities. With an increase in contactless volunteering activities due to the 
COVID-19 situation, KUSSO saw the need for a public communication channel.  
KUSSO’s YouTube channel provides a variety of educational content, such as pre-recorded video lessons on 
coding and post-reading discussions, educational radio programs that give advice on life and recommend 
books and movies, and children’s stories read by voice actors. KUSSO will continue uploading new content to 
disseminate the value of volunteering.
Online distance learning program Mic Book: post-reading discussions and coding lessons
E-bookjeobook Project: Children’s stories designed for children of multicultural families
Multi-language subtitles (in English, Mongolian, etc.) are available.• Content production
• Educational programs
SOVAC “The Value of Together” Talent donation exhibition “I Meet You” Introduction to KUSSO• Introduction to KUSSO
Educational radio program “Fantastic Dream Night”: giving advice on life, book and movie recommendations
PURME Foundation NEXON Children’s Rehabilitation Hospital
Contactless cultural experience: making and playing musical instruments, storytelling, etc.

1. Universities Engagement in the SDGs   
1-1. Universities and the SDGs
1-2. How Universities can contribute to the SDGs
1-3. The SDG-engaged university
　　: Three-Step Action Plan
2. KU’s Engagement and Opportunities   
2-1. Social Service Organization (Undergraduates)
2-2. Social Engagement Organization (Graduates)
2-3. Symposiums and Research on the SDGs2020-2021
Korea University’s Social 
Engagement and the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)Part 2.
SDGs and KU’s Contributions
28
Korea Universtiy SDGs 29
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
1-1. Universities and the SDGs
In September 2015, world leaders at the UN unanimously adopted 
Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
one of the most ambitious and important global agreements in recent 
history. The agenda, which came into effect on 1 January 2016, aims to 
set the world on a path towards a better future for all by 2030.
At the heart of the agenda are the 17 SDGs (sometimes referred to as 
the Global Goals) and their 169 targets. The SDGs are a set of priorities 
and aspirations to guide all countries in tackling the world’s most 
pressing challenges, including ending poverty and hunger; protecting the planet from degradation and 
addressing climate change; ensuring that all people can enjoy prosperous, healthy and fulfilling lives; and 
fostering peaceful, just and inclusive societies free from fear and violence.
The SDGs continue the work of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which drove global action to 
address the basic needs of the world’s poorest countries from 2000 to 2015. However, the SDGs differ from 
the MDGs in several significant ways that make them far more influential and consequential.
The SDGs cover a much broader range of challenges than the MDGs, most of which are relevant and 
applicable to all countries or vulnerable groups within countries. They emphasize the interlinkages between 
the social, economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable development, as well as between the 
goals themselves - and therefore the need to address the goals in context of one another (and not separately 
or sequentially). They include targets devoted to mobilizing the means required to implement the SDGs, such 
as partnerships, financing and enabling policies. They recognize that addressing the challenges of the SDGs 
is everybody’s responsibility and explicitly call on business, civil society, and the tertiary and academic sectors 
among others to collaborate on the achievement of the SDGs.
The strong interest and response to the SDGs across most countries and sectors since their adoption and the 
many new initiatives, partnerships and networks that they have spurred, provide clear evidence that they 
are already influential. There is already strong uptake within the UN and national governments and growing 
interest, adoption and action on SDGs within a range of sectors including business, sub-national and local 
governments, youth, civil society, philanthropic organization, and development banks.
The SDGs are drawing increasing attention from the UN and its member states, and apply to both the public 
and private sectors. The Korean government has established the K-SDGs, Seoul SDGs 2030, and other 
frameworks to attain the SDGs.  
Korea University has also started to take part in achieving SDGs. Given the scale of the SDGs and universities’ 
critical role in this endeavor, however, KU must accelerate its efforts to achieve the goals.1. Universities Engagement in the SDGs   
In September 2015, the United Nations introduced a new agenda- “Transforming our World: The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.” With the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) adopted in 2000 
expiring in 2015, the UN established a set of goals called the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). While 
the MDGs focused on tackling poverty, the SDGs cover all aspects of society, including environmental, social, 
and economic components. Divided into 17 goals and 169 targets spanning from 2015 to 2030, the SDGs 
define actions to ensure humanity’s sustainable development and well-being. 
As higher education institutions, universities have various resources and multiple networks with local and 
international individuals and public and private organizations. They also cultivate future leaders. Korea 
University believes that sharing common goals among the members of the campus community is the 
first priority in doing its part toward achieving the SDGs. The KU-SDGs provide a starting point for Korea 
University and its members to share the values of the SDGs.
The KU-SDGs are the result of mapping Korea University’s various activities to the SDGs. This process has 
allowed a view of the university’s progress toward attaining each of the 17 goals and has highlighted the 
steps required for further progress. Korea University also has developed three key steps to approach the SDGs 
systematically: 1) recognizing issues, 2) exploring opportunities to solve them, and 3) monitoring implemented 
activities. 
This brochure consists of two parts. Part 1 introduces the SDGs and Korea University’s contributions to them. 
Part 2 builds on Part 1 and presents Korea University’s engagement in the SDGs and its action plans. 
KUSSO’s diverse programs allow undergraduate and graduate students to play an active role in social services 
and engagement. Korea University will pursue the SDGs to help students do more than merely accumulate 
knowledge. Rather, students are encouraged to formulate innovative ideas for addressing social issues and 
developing society. The ultimate aim is to cultivate a campus culture that values sustainability.
-This chapter is based on reports published by the Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN).

30
Korea Universtiy SDGs 31
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
UNIVERSITY ENGAGEMENT IN THE SDGS
Universities occupy a unique position within society. With a broad remit around the creation and 
dissemination of knowledge, universities have long been powerful drivers of global, national and local 
innovation, economic development, and societal wellbeing. As such, universities have a critical role in the 
achievement of the SDGs and will also greatly benefit from engaging with them.
How do the SDGs help universities?
Create increased demand for SDG related 
education
Provide a comprehensive and globally accepted 
definition of a responsible university
Offer a framework
for demonstrating impact Create new funding 
streams
Support collaboration with new external and 
internal partners[The example of university engagement in the SDGs.]
How do universities help the SDGs?
Provide knowledge, innovations and solutions 
to the SDGs
Create current and future SDG implementers
Demonstrate how to support, adopt and 
implement SDGs in governance, operations
and culture
Develop cross-sectoral leadership to guide the 
SDG responseThe 17 SDGs
SDG 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere
SDG 2   End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable 
agriculture
SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages
SDG 4   Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities 
for all
SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
SDG 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
SDG 8   Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all
SDG 9   Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation
SDG 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries
SDG 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
SDG 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
SDG 14   Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable 
development
SDG 15  Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity 
loss
SDG 16   Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels
SDG 17   Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for 
Sustainable Development Finance
Learning Knowledge Collaboration
Impact Demonstration
32
Korea Universtiy SDGs 33
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
2) Why universities need the SDGs
① Demonstrating university impact
The SDGs provide a new and integrated way to communicate and demonstrate 
to external stakeholders - including government, funders and the community  
- how universities contribute to global and local wellbeing and therefore their 
impact and relevance.
② Capturing demand for SDG-related education
The SDGs speak to both young and old people, as global citizens wanting to make meaningful contributions 
to society and the environment. Additionally, as government and business increasingly embed the SDGs as a 
strategic focus, the demand for graduates who understand and can implement the SDG agenda will grow. 
Early adoption of SDG-related education will future proof an institution for these changing circumstances.
③ Building new external and internal partnerships
One of the strengths of the SDG agenda is that it provides a common framework for different sectors and 
organizations to connect and work together on shared interests. This will give universities opportunities to 
form new collaborations with government, industry, and the community in both research and education. 
Equally, the framework can help identify common interests across different areas of the university, helping to 
drive cross-disciplinary partnerships, collaboration, and innovation.
④ Accessing new funding streams
Funders - including government agencies, international banks, and philanthropists - are increasingly framing 
funding calls around the achievement of the SDGs.
⑤ Adopting a comprehensive and globally accepted definition of a responsible and globally aware 
university
Universities are increasingly re-thinking their role in the twenty-first century and looking to be both 
more responsive to societal needs and to become agents of change towards solving global challenges. 
As a universally agreed framework, the SDGs provide an organizing structure for what this looks like for 
a university. Furthermore, given the critical role universities have in ensuring the success of the SDGs, 
universities have a moral imperative to embody support for the SDGs as part of their social missions and core 
functions.1) Why the SDGs need universities
① Providing the knowledge and solutions to underpin the 
implementation of the SDGs
Addressing the challenges of the SDGs will require new knowledge, new 
ways of doing things, hard choices between competing options, and in some 
cases profound transformations. Universities drive technological and societal 
progress through research, discovery, knowledge creation, and adoption. They 
attract and nurture talent and creativity and are central players in regional 
and national innovation systems. These services are critical for helping the global community understand the 
challenges,  opportunities, and interactions between the SDGs; develop and implement solutions; develop and 
assess policy options and transformation pathways; and monitor progress.
② Creating current and future SDG implementers
Universities provide people with professional and personal skills and capabilities. They have access to large 
concentrations of young and curious people who are passionate, creative and have a desire for a better 
world. They also increasingly influence global development through international students and  alumni, 
international campuses, and capacity building activities. Achieving the SDGs will need everyone to contribute. 
Universities therefore need to ensure that they are equipping current and future leaders, decision-makers, 
teachers, innovators, entrepreneurs, and citizens with the knowledge, skills and motivation that will help 
them contribute to achieving the SDGs.
③ Embodying the principles of the SDGs through organizational governance, operations and culture
Universities are complex and diverse institutions. Through their staff, students, campuses, neighborhoods 
and supply chains, they have significant social, economic and environmental footprints. By implementing 
the principles of the SDGs within their own governance, operations and culture, universities will directly 
contribute to the achievement of the SDGs within these extensive spheres.
④ Providing cross-sectoral leadership in implementation
Universities hold a position of neutral and trusted stakeholders within society. As such, they have the capacity 
and responsibility to guide and lead the local, national, and international response to the SDGs through cross-
sectoral dialogues and partnerships. They also have a key role in educating the public and other sectors on 
the SDGs and in advocating for the importance of the SDGs.

34
Korea Universtiy SDGs 35
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
1) Learning and Teaching
Education is one of the bedrocks of the SDGs. In and of itself, quality education leads to significant 
sustainable development benefits for individuals, communities and countries. It is also a critical means of 
supporting and accelerating global capacity to implement the SDGs. As such, universities, through their 
extensive learning and teaching activities - including undergraduate and graduate teaching, professional 
training, executive and adult education, online learning, co-curricular activities, and student clubs and 
societies - have a very important role to play in SDG implementation.
[ University Education and the SDGs]
The SDGs recognize the importance of education to sustainable development through SDG 4, which calls 
for providing “inclusive and equitable quality education and promot[ing] lifelong learning opportunities for 
all.” Some of the targets within this goal explicitly call for action by universities, and many others have direct 
relevance to learning and teaching activities within universities.1-2. How universities can contribute to the SDGs
Universities have a critical role in contributing to the achievement of the SDGs. This Section expands on this 
discussion by looking in more detail at how universities can contribute to the SDGs.
For convenience, this Section is divided into 4 subsections, each covering one of the core functions of 
university activity: learning and teaching; research; organizational governance, culture and operations; and 
external leadership. Each subsection explains how this area is relevant to the SDGs and what universities can 
do to contribute. The subsections also include ideas, resources and examples for further action.
While learning and teaching, research, organizational governance and operations, and external leadership 
are often approached separately, in reality they are closely interlinked. The SDGs present great opportunities 
for creating, strengthening and communicating links between these areas, and therefore a university-wide 
approach to engagement with the SDGs is best.
Research
Research on the SDGs
Interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research
Innovations and solutions
National & local implementation
Capacity building for research
Operation & Governance
Governance and 
operations aligned with 
SDGs
Incorporate into 
university reporting[An overview of university contribution to the SDGs.]
Education
Education for sustainable 
development
Jobs for implementing the SDGs
Capacity building Mobilizing young 
people
External Lradership
Public engagement
Cross-sectoral dialogue and action
Policy development and advocacy
Advocacy for sector role
Demonstrate sector commitment
Goal Target
4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, 
vocational and tertiary education, including university
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including 
technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship
4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of 
education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous 
peoples and children in vulnerable situations
4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable 
development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and 
sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-
violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to 
sustainable development
4.a Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide 
safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all
4.b By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships available to developing 
countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing States and African countries, 
for enrolment in higher education, including vocational training and information and communications 
technology, technical, engineering and scientific programs, in developed countries and other 
developing countries
4.c By 2030, substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, including through international 
cooperation for teacher training in developing countries, especially least developed countries and 
small island developing StatesSDG targets relating directly to learning & teaching. 

36
Korea Universtiy SDGs 37
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
[University Research and the SDGs]
A number of SDG targets directly refer to the need for research-related activities as key components of 
addressing the SDGs. Many of these targets are considered the ‘means of implementation’ of the SDGs. 
These targets are summarized as below and are all relevant to university-based research.
[Universities can do…]
▶ Encourage and promote the SDGs as a topic of research within the university
▶  Support the full spectrum of research approaches needed to address the SDGs, including interdisciplinary 
and transdisciplinary research
▶ Support and incubate innovation for sustainable development solutions
▶ Actively support national and local implementation of the SDGs
▶ Advocate for national support and coordination of research on the SDGs
▶ Support capacity building for developing countries to undertake and use research on the SDGs
3) ORGANISATIONAL GOVERNANCE, CULTURE AND OPERATIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Universities are often large entities and can have significant impacts on the social, cultural, and environmental 
wellbeing within their campuses, communities, and regions - and sometimes far beyond. These impacts 
directly relate to all areas of the SDGs and by acting responsibly universities can make significant contributions 
to their achievement.
[University Governance and the SDGs]
Universities are often major employers, consumers, investors, and real estate holders. They oversee large 
communities of staff, students, and contractors. Their campuses can function like and be the size of small 
cities. They can create significant flows of people and goods that necessitate infrastructure investment in 
surrounding areas. They can also have an influence far beyond their regions through their supply chains and 
increasingly international reach. As a result, universities have an impact across each and every one of the 
SDGs, and this impact can be large.[Universities can do…]
▶  Provide students with the knowledge, skills, and motivation to understand and address the challenges of 
the SDGs
▶ Empower and mobilze young people
▶ Provide in-depth academic or vocational training to implement SDG solutions
▶  Enhance opportunities for capacity building of students and professionals from developing countries to 
address challenges relating to the SDGs
2) Research
To achieve the SDGs, the global community will need to overcome many difficult and complex social, 
economic and environmental challenges, some of which will require transformations in how societies and 
economies function and how we interact with our planet. Universities, through their extensive research 
capabilities and activities, have a critical role in providing the necessary knowledge, evidence-base, solutions 
and innovations to underpin and support this task.
Goal Target
9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in 
all countries, in particular developing countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innovation 
and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million 
people and public and private research and development spending
9.b Support domestic technology development, research and innovation in developing 
countries, including by ensuring a conducive policy environment for, inter alia, industrial 
diversification and value addition to commodities
SDGs 2.a, 3.b, 7.a, 12.a, refer to the need for scientific research and input on sustainable 
agriculture, vaccines development, and sustainable consumption and production, respectively. 
SDGs 14.3, 14.4, 14.5, 14.a refer to the need for scientific input in addressing  ocean and 
fisheries management.
17.6 Enhance North-South, South-South and triangular regional and international 
cooperation on and access to science, technology and innovation and enhance knowledge 
sharing on mutually agreed terms, including through improved coordination among existing 
mechanisms, in particular at the United Nations level, and through a global technology 
facilitation mechanism
17.8 Fully operationalize the technology bank and science, technology and innovation 
capacity-building mechanism for least developed countries by 2017 and enhance the use of 
enabling technology, in particular information and communications  technologyGoal Examples of actions
•Ensuring Fair Trade and ethical supply chains
•Investment policies that promote Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) principles
• Providing support structures for students living in poverty, such as scholarships and assistance 
packagesSDG targets relating directly to research.
Examples of actions universities can take to contribute to the SDGs through their internal operations

38
Korea Universtiy SDGs 39
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
•Providing sustainable, nutritious and affordable food choices on campus
•Facilitating food production on campus
•Offering fresh food markets on campus
•Introducing measures to reduce food waste on campus
•Providing access to affordable health and wellbeing services on campus
•Providing wellbeing programs for staff and students to reduce incidence of non- communicable 
diseases and promote mental health
•Implementing ‘no smoking’ policies on campuses
•Ensuring appropriate practices are in place for dealing with hazardous substances
• Supporting vulnerable and disadvantaged people to access and participate fully in the university, 
including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples, and people experiencing financial difficulty
• Providing programs to enhance literacy and education in communities and schools in the university’s 
local area and beyond
• Providing facilities that promote and encourage inclusivity in learning
• Implementing workplace gender equity strategies, including those for improving  the representation 
of women in university leadership positions and senior academic roles
•Working to close the gender pay gap
•Providing childcare on campus and promoting workplace flexibility
• Participating in national campaigns for preventing violence against women and committing to report 
on the number of sexual assaults that have taken place at the institution
• Aligning employment, training and regulation policies to be consistent with commitments to equity 
and access strategies and targets
• Providing appropriately positioned and supported scholarship and financial assistance schemes for 
students in need
• Supporting creativity and innovation through a culture of acceptable risk-taking, providing the 
appropriate space and process for ideas to flourish
• Monitoring employment outcomes and academic workload management
• Implementing socially and environmentally responsible procurement policies and procedures, 
affecting up and down the supply chain
• Critically querying the role of economic growth
• Issuing only green bonds where bonds are required
• Testing and piloting innovative solutions to improving operations on campus
• Committing to building sustainable and resilient infrastructure that supports wellbeing and minimizes 
environmental impact
• Ensuring retrofits of existing buildings increase resource efficiency and adopt clean and 
environmentally sound technologies
• Committing to sustainable and reliable Information and communications technology processes and 
services
• Managing the pay gap between lowest and highest paid staff
• Instituting an equity agenda and plan that commits to equal opportunity and reduced inequalities in 
all processes and activities, most notably pay
• Committing to the elimination of discrimination across the university by ensuring the diversity of the 
population has the opportunity to be represented and have a voice in the decision-making process
• Providing a supportive, inclusive and safe working and learning environment for people from 
financially and socially disadvantaged, backgrounds, people from rural and regional areas, people 
with disabilities, women in the workplace, people of diverse genders and sexualities and people from 
diverse cultural and faith communities
• Scaling up and delivering sustainable solutions to global challenges developed by the university for 
the wider community and industry
• Providing safe and affordable on-campus and/or university supported housing
• Committing to the development of and investment in the university’s local community and areas of 
greatest influence (where possible)
• Allowing fluid campus boundaries to encourage the use of green space by local community members 
as a public amenity
• Committing to ensure the campus always remains safe, green, and provides accessibility for all levels 
of mobility
• Implementing best practice pollution control (including air) and waste management processes and 
policies
• Working with local and state government to advocate for greater access to and provision of 
sustainable transport systems including public transport and bike paths
• Developing policies, procedures and plans to ensure the campus is safe for all staff, students and 
visitors
• Ensuring that procurement policies and procedures clearly indicate an intolerance to working with 
any companies known or found to be involved in exploitation of people
• Ensuring that investment policies preclude investment in industry that deals in arms, human 
trafficking and/or modern slavery
• Ensuring that the policies and culture of the institution clearly indicate that bribery, corruption, 
violence, crime and acts of terrorism is unacceptable
• Organising cross-cultural and inter-faith activities on campus
• Ensuring that all staff and students have access to justice and information about their rights
• Involving staff, students and key stakeholders in university governance decisions
• Building strategies and culture that openly supports developing, maintaining and enhancing 
partnerships both internally and externally
• Incorporating aspirational environmentally sustainable design aspects into capital works
• Providing free drinking water for students, staff and visitors
• Instituting zero-net emission policies and investing in on-campus renewable energy production
• Putting climate mitigation and adaptation strategies in place
• Including climate change risk in risk reporting frameworks
• Developing long term resource efficiency and management plans
• Developing management and guardianship plans for on-campus and surrounding waterways
• Developing management and guardianship plans for on-campus biodiversity and ecosystems
• Installing appropriate drainage traps to minimize pollution
• Installing water harvesting, storage and reuse systems
• Reducing all waste (including hazardous waste) and increasing recycling
• Ensuring safe practice expectations for hazardous waste handling and disposal
• Increasing use of sustainable transport
• Incorporating sustainability and ethical considerations into purchasing policies, procedures and 
activities
• Monitoring and reporting on sustainability performance through to Council level
• Engaging staff and students in all sustainable campus activities

40
Korea Universtiy SDGs 41
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
1-3. The SDG-engaged university
Through their ‘business-as-usual’ activities in education, research, and operations universities already make 
many important contributions to the achievement of the SDGs. However, for the SDGs to be truly successful 
at a global scale, universities need to become champions of sustainable development and play a leading role 
in the implementation of the SDGs. This is a challenging task. Universities are often hindered by external 
structural factors and internal limitations. Yet, the SDGs provide a framework to work towards structural 
solutions, as well as accelerate contribution to local, national, and global wellbeing.
The SDGs provide a unique opportunity to take a whole-of-university approach to solving the big 
challenges facing humanity. The SDGs are inclusive and diverse enough to be able to speak the language of 
the majority, providing a common language and platform for building collaboration. In general, universities 
can engage with the SDGs on a number of different levels:
• STEP 1. Recognition
: Identifying and acknowledging what a university is already doing to contribute to the SDGs can provide a 
powerful narrative about impact and a strong impetus for further action.
• STEP 2. Opportunistic alignment
: Different areas across the university recognize the usefulness and importance of the SDG framework and 
find opportunities to use it to frame or drive discrete activities and, without an overall strategy.
• SPEP 3 Organizing principle
: The ongoing and far reaching impact will come if the SDGs become part of ‘business-as-usual’ for the 
university, by recognizing and integrating the SDG framework into all relevant university governance 
structures and frameworks.4) EXPTERNAL LEADERSHIP
Success in achieving the SDGs will depend on action and collaboration by all actors. By leveraging their 
unique position within society, universities - both individually and collectively - can help lead, guide, and 
support the local, national, and international response to the SDGs.
[University Leadership and the SDGs]
The scale of the task of achieving the SDGs will require mobilisation of all sectors. In the inspirational words 
of the UN’s Transforming our world document: “The future of humanity and of our planet lies in our hands… 
We have mapped the road to sustainable development; it will be for all of us to ensure that the journey is 
successful and its gains irreversible.” The journey “will involve Governments as well as parliaments, the UN 
system and other international institutions, local authorities, indigenous peoples, civil society, business and 
the private sector, the scientific and academic community - and all people.”
Collaboration will also be crucial, as encapsulated in target 17.16 to “Enhance the Global Partnership 
for Sustainable Development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share 
knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development Goals in all countries…”
Mobilization and collaboration on this scale needs significant leadership and support to bring all stakeholders 
on board, build their capacity to understand and implement the SDGs, and facilitate conversations, mutual 
learning and partnerships between different sectors. The public itself is also a key stakeholder in SDG 
implementation in identifying the priorities, debating the options, and contributing to implementation in 
their own lives. In most countries the public has little knowledge of the SDGs and little opportunity to actively 
participate in implementation.
As places devoted to knowledge creation and teaching for the benefit of society, universities have traditionally 
occupied a unique position in society that makes them particularly suited to provide leadership on SDG 
implementation. They are trusted by the public and are seen as neutral actors by other sectors. Many have 
significant prominence and influence in the public sphere. And they have expertise in research and education 
that is essential for building capacity and supporting policy making. While many universities have struggled 
to maintain this critical role under ‘rationalization and commercialization’ processes, the SDGs provide an 
opportunity to enhance this role.
[Universities can do…]
▶ Strengthen public engagement and participation in addressing the SDGs
▶ Initiate and facilitate cross-sectoral dialogue and action on SDG implementation 
▶ Play a lead role in policy development and advocacy for sustainable development 
▶ Demonstrate the importance of the university sector in SDG implementation
▶ Demonstrate university sector commitment to the SDGs
42
Korea Universtiy SDGs 43
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
Process Details
Mapping what your university is already doing to support and contribute to the SDGs across all areas 
or within specific areas of the university is a great starting point for discovering possibilities for deeper 
engagement. It is also a powerful tool for showcasing what is already in place, as well as for identifying 
synergies across the university.
By using the SDG framework to guide the university’s mapping exercise you will be able to:
- Identify key stakeholders and potential champions for the SDGs
- Identify strengths and gaps as a basis for identifying priorities and actions on the SDGs 
- Help build a business case for further university engagement in the SDGs
Taking a participatory approach is key to working towards the SDG agenda. This includes collaboration and 
partnership within and across organizations and communities by bringing all of those involved in the life 
and work of the university on board to both champion the work already underway and to create substantial 
ownership of actions taken.
Building capacity and ownership of the SDGs requires understanding the current knowledge of and 
commitment to the SDGs across research, learning, teaching, operations, governance and culture. Reaching 
this understanding could include a stock-taking of the information gathered in Step 1. This may indicate 
where existing knowledge gaps lie and how you might advocate for the importance of the SDGs to the 
work and life of the university. Workshops involving various areas of the university are also a great way of 
understanding current knowledge of the SDGs while raising awareness about the SDGs and their relevance 
for the university community.
By discussing the global and local relevance of the SDGs, people involved in the university can develop a 
shared understanding of the SDGs, learn about the work and interests of others, begin to identify areas for 
collaboration and action, and nurture a collective and individual ownership of the process and community of 
practice. Engaging with the student body in particular is key to this Step. You may start by holding student 
workshops on the SDGs and engaging directly with student organizations.[Overview of the step-by-step SDG integration process]
Recognition
Opportunistic 
Alignment
Organizing
PrincipleMap what you are already doingMap what you are already doing
Build capacity and ownership of the SDGsBuild capacity and ownership of the SDGs
Integrate, implement and embed the SDGsIdentify priorities, opportunities and gaps
Monitor, evaluate and communicate
44
Korea Universtiy SDGs 45
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
2. KU’s Engagement and Opportunities
The Korea University Social Service Organization (KUSSO) operates more than 60 social service and 
contribution programs at home and abroad, with over 2,000 students participating every year throughout 
the semester and vacation. The programs are divided into the following six categories according to the target 
groups and nature of activities and mapped with each SDG item.
This brochure summarizes Korea University's engagement in the SDGs in 2020 based on the classification of 
KUSSO’s programs and mid- to long-term development plans. Areas that can be maintained, extended and 
further developed are examined to create an action plan.Key to the completion of this Step will be setting a realistic and incremental foundation for any actions that 
the university takes to integrate its commitment to the SDGs. Cultivating a solid and cohesive base from 
which to act will safeguard against ad hoc or reactionary decisions. Step 3 involves bringing together key 
stakeholders - students, staff, community members - to arrive at a common determination of priorities for 
action on the SDGs and to identify opportunities for working cohesively and collectively on achieving the 
SDGs.
The following tasks can help to pave the way for implementing integrated action on the SDGs:
- Review the information gathered in Steps 1 and 2 (or through other university processes) to identify and 
understand the gaps and opportunities for working towards the SDGs that exist in your university
- Identify the priorities for implementing the commitment to the SDGs. Crucial to this will be dialogue with 
all key stakeholders. You might consider holding an agenda-setting workshop. This could bring together 
representatives from across the university or from discrete areas to start work setting an agenda for action 
towards the SDGs.
Depending on your institutional context, this Step will involve including the SDGs in various vehicles for 
governance, establishing coordination mechanisms for your actions on the SDGs and implementing policies, 
strategies and/or action plans. To complete this Step, you need to make decisions that are clear and widely 
supported about how the SDGs will be mainstreamed in all key university strategies and policies. These 
strategies and policies might include your university’s strategic plan, research framework, learning and 
teaching framework, corporate engagement framework, future students messaging, and so on.
The way in which universities evaluate and celebrate their contributions to the SDGs is key to informing 
and shaping future engagement and action. A cohesive and well-grounded monitoring, evaluation and 
communications plan will enable universities to create and share compelling stories to draw both the 
necessary support for their future engagement with the SDGs and to widen the shared understanding of the 
SDGs.
The tools that you use to measure and evaluate may already be in place within the university. For example, 
you might be feeding into annual reports and existing diversity and inclusion reporting processes, or you 
might be reporting to a funding body. In time, universities or coordinating bodies may develop their own 
benchmarking tools on the SDGs. In the meantime, you may find the tool on Reporting on SDG contributions 
useful.Integrate, implement and embed the SDGs
Monitor, evaluate and communicate
Identify priorities, opportunities and gaps
Community 
Service
Overseas 
ServiceSocial Service 
R&DLiving LabOn-Campus 
ServiceSocial 
Problem  
Solving 

46
Korea Universtiy SDGs 47
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
[Classification of All Programs as of 2020]
Community Service Social Problem Solving
Programs
1) Fantastic Mates
2) Rainbow School
3) Wonderful Dream Ground
4)  Children’s Dream Class at Korea University Anam Hospital 
5) PURME Foundation NEXON Children’s Rehabilitation 
Hospital
6) Mic-Book
*For the further information, see p.52[Short-Term]
1) Talent Donation Exhibition
2) Storybook and video production for multicultural children
3) Free coding education for youth from low-income families
[Long-Term] 
1) Future Sharing School
2) Saving Small Schools 
Living Labs for Social Innovation Overseas Volunteer Program
1) Taebaek-city, Gangwon
 Urban Regeneration
2) Gosung-gun in Gangwon
Changemakers1) Feb.
Uzbekistan
Korean Language Program
2) Aug.-Dec. 
Cambodia Online Korean Language Program
3) Aug.-Dec.
Vietnam PBL (Project Based Learning)
4) Oct.-Feb.
Uzbekistan Online Conference
Research/Education Support R&D (centered 
on Phase 4 BK21 Project)KUSSO Affiliate On-Campus: Volunteer Clubs
Graduate School Research Support Team
- ODA (Official Development Assistant) for innovative 
community education to close educational gap 
- Living labs for ecosystem creation
-Support for and cooperation with NGO/NPO/social 
enterprises 
- Research on SDGs related to resolving social problems and 
implementation 
- Research on other creating shared value (CSV)-related 
activities and implementation Research
Research on the SDGs
Building capacity for social service R&D by operating the 
Graduate Social Service Organization
- Research and implementation of the SDGs pertinent 
to social problem solving
- ODA to innovate community education and close 
educational gap
- Support for and cooperation with NGOs, NPOs, and 
social enterprises
- Ecology, Environment, and Regeneration Living Labs
- Research and implementation of other CSV-related 
activities
Operations & Governance
Governance and operations aligned with SDGs
Systematizing social contribution planning and 
governance policy
- Establishment and promotion of the Volunteer Service 
Education Center
- Establishment and empowerment of a committee on 
social service operations
- Establishment and empowerment of a committee on 
social contribution operations
Program to promote the organic connections among 
on-campus social engagement organizations 
- Creation of the Social Engagement 
Center
- Building a system to strengthen 
the organic connections among 
on-campus social engagement 
organizationsKU’s Engagement in the SDGs - As of 2020
Education
Education for sustainable development
Enhancing cultural and practical education on social 
contribution activities 
- Project-based social contribution activity certification 
system
- Promotion of on-campus service club certification 
system
- Systematization of talent donations from students 
utilizing their majors
Cultivating intellectuals in action by promoting a co-
growth system
- Implementation of social enterprise internship 
programs
- Holding of the KU Volunteer Festival/Fair
- Campaign to enhance the cultural rights of the 
underprivileged
Expanding the scope of beneficiaries and activities of 
social contribution
- Promotion of the Future Sharing 
Education project
- Campaign to enhance the cultural 
rights of the underprivileged
External Leadership
Public engagement
Forging a social contribution cooperation system for 
local governments and domestic organizations
- Local Community Revitalization Living Labs
- Campaign to save the small local schools 
- Introduction of a two-way video conferencing system 
 
Reinforcing social responsibility through contribution to 
the international community
- Implementation of social contribution activities for a 
sustainable society
AIESEC
KU HOPE
KUAS
KUECS
KURC
KUSA
KUSEP
SID
UNAI ASPIRE
UP GREEN
WOORI
Go Go Pharm
KUNAD
Gojip-KU Habitat 
CCYP
New-LearnROTARACT
Libertas
Seoul Club
Granite Tower Club
Minority Human Rights Committee
Silver Lining
Aurum
Woonhwa
Enactus
Ilchegam
Jajin-geunloban Karandashi
Cocoa
Sunshine Village
Pumpkin Carriage
Volunteering club Howu
*For the further information, see p.56

48
Korea Universtiy SDGs 49
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
11-Sustainable Cities 
and Communities• Lead to develop and deploy sustainable solutions for global challenges to help out many more 
industries and communities
•Provide and support a safe and affordable housing on campus and in nearby areas
• Operate the campus as an open and public convenience facility to allow local residents to access 
its green spaces
• Manage the campus space to be safe, green and easy to travel and access
16- Peace, Justice 
and Strong 
Institutions• Develop policies, procedures, and plans to create a safe campus for faculty, students, and visitors
• Declare that bribery, corruption, violence, criminal and terrorist acts are never tolerated under the 
policy and culture of our institution
• Allow all staff and students to access information about justice and rights
• Involve staff, students, and key stakeholders in determining governance-related matters
17-Partnerships for 
the Goals• Establish a policy and culture that publicly supports the development, maintenance, and 
management of internal and external partnerships
• Develop partnerships between colleges
• Develop partnerships with external organizations for the SDGs
 • Refer to environmentally sustainable elements for building management/design/expansion
• Provide drinking water for students, faculty members and visitors
• Reduce all waste and increase recycling rates
• Treat and dispose hazardous waste according to safety rules
• Increase the use of sustainable transportation
• Consider sustainability and ethics in purchase policies, work procedures and activities
• Engage students and staff in all sustainable on-campus activities Goal Example of actions
1-No Poverty•Provide structural and policy support (e.g. scholarships) for students from underprivileged families
•Introduce entrepreneurship training for marginalized and vulnerable populations
2-Zero Hunger•Offer sustainable, nutritious and affordable choices of food on campus (e.g. KU Pride Club)
•Introduce measures to reduce on-campus food waste
3-Good Health and 
Well-being•Implement no-smoking policy on campus
•Review practice of treating hazardous substances
•Implement a system to manage hazardous substances on campus
4-Quality Education•Support those with financial difficulties or disabilities to access and participate in education
• Provide programs to promote literacy and education across neighborhood communities and  
schools
•Offer facilities to promote universal education
5-Gender Equality•Implement measures for gender equality in the workplace
•Strive to reduce gender-based wage gaps 
•Provide on-campus childcare service and promote flexibility at work
8-Decent Work and 
Economic Growth• Deliver consistent and fair measures on employment and training, and set purpose-fit strategies 
and goals
•Introduce scholarships and other financial aid programs to support students in needs
•Monitor employment results and learning progress
• Provide a space and process where ideas can be shared freely and instill a culture that tolerates a 
certain level of risks to support creativity and innovation
9-Industry, 
Innovation and 
Infrastructure• Strive to build a sustainable and resilient infrastructure that minimizes environmental impacts and 
promotes well-being
•Build sustainable and reliable IT processes and services
•Share innovation spaces with local communities
10-Reduced 
Inequalities•Manage the gap between the lowest and highest wages
• Introduce agenda items and develop plans to reduce inequalities and provide equal opportunities 
across all processes and activities, especially in the payroll field
•Provide an inclusive and safe workplace and learning environment for allKU’s SDG Opportunities - Plan

50
Korea Universtiy SDGs 51
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
2-1. Social Service Organization (Undergraduates)
Social Service Organization (Undergraduates) was created in September 2008 as an undergraduate volunteer 
organization. Since then, it has been at the forefront of implementing diverse and continuous social service 
activities, aiming to cultivate intellectuals in action who serve and contribute to local communities and 
humanity as a whole.
The Social Service Organization encourages undergraduates to plan and operate various volunteer programs 
on their own and to acquire the qualities and experiences necessary to lead social contribution endeavors.
<Social Service Organization’s Activities in Numbers>
December 1, 2008 - November 30, 2019
Statistics of the programs planned and operated by the Social Service Organization members
23,959 Volunteers
455,103 Volunteer HoursKUSSO OB Networking & Partnership 
with 80 institutes.109 Home & Abroad Programs with 30 
on- campus affiliatesSocial Problem Solving
To make our world a better place
Talent in Action
Create shared valuesLiving Labs
for SDGs
Community 
Service
Overseas 
ServiceSocial Service 
R&DLiving LabOn-Campus 
ServiceSocial 
Problem  
Solving 

52
Korea Universtiy SDGs 53
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
Volunteer Programs
■ Community Service
Social Service Organization (Undergraduates) plans education programs and provides educational services, 
such as learning guidance, emotional support, and mentoring, for marginalized children from 17 communities 
nationwide, including Seongbuk-gu, Nowon-gu, Gangbuk-gu, Jongno-gu, Dongdaemun-gu, and Dobong-gu 
in Seoul.■ Social Problem Solving
These programs aim to define social problems from the perspective of students, develop concrete ideas, and 
put solutions into practice.
Fantastic Mates
It provides online classes for children and 
youth from low-income families with the 
Beondong Social Welfare Center. It also 
produces an education radio program to 
share the stories of mentee students.Meeting You, Nemorang- Talent 
donation exhibitions as the COVID-19 
recovery project: 
Under the theme of “Changes in daily 
lives due to COVID-19”, illustrated works 
of children and youth were displayed 
and sold. The proceeds were donated 
to local welfare institutions and medical 
institutions.
Children’s School  at Korea University 
Anam Hospital
It provides classes for elementary school 
subjects (Korean, English, mathematics, 
science, computers) and activities for 
children admitted to the hospital.Future Sharing School
It is a 1:1 learning mentoring program 
for high school students. Through online 
classes, mentors study textbooks such as 
English and mathematics together with 
mentees and inform them of learning 
strategies.Wonderful Dream Ground
Members visit eight community children's 
centers in Seoul and provides special 
lectures, individual mentoring, and 
Q&A sessions on career and academic 
pathways.Free coding education project for 
youth: Cocoa
It provides classes on basic coding and 
service development for high school 
students. This project engages them in 
the entire process from service planning 
to development of a website that provides 
information on English listening, volunteer 
activities, and soup kitchens for high 
school students. The services available at 
the website were derived from the ideas 
submitted by the students.   
Mic-Book
It offers distance learning programs on 
reading and discussion and coding for 
elementary and middle school students 
from rural areas. As of today, 11 local 
schools in Gangwon, Jeonnam, Jeonbuk, 
Jeju, and others are participating in the 
program.Plastic Zero Waste Campaign
The mobile website “Pleedom Test” was 
created to reduce plastic use and waste for 
college students. The website encourages 
visitors to participate in the cause through 
1) conducting environmental issues 
awareness/practice type tests and then 2) 
awarding prizes for those who carry out 
and share customized actions.Rainbow School
It runs an online program for elementary 
school students with the Seongbuk-gu 
Multicultural Family Support Center. It also 
operates classes on Taekwondo as well 
as environmental issues and conservation 
activities related to Jeongneungcheon 
stream in Seongbuk-gu.I Am Also a Writer.-Storybook 
production project for children from 
multicultural families:
A storybook was created in Korean and 
translated into foreign languages for 
children from multicultural families. It 
was produced as a YouTube video with 
the talent donation of voice actors so 
that children can watch the story without 
visiting library.
PURME Foundation NEXON Children’s 
Rehabilitation Hospital
It operates a cultural experience online 
class for preschoolers in the hospital.Saving Rural  Small Schools
It is operated in cooperation with 20 
schools in 11 rural areas nationwide. 
Classes and mentoring service are 
provided for elementary, middle and high 
school students through educational 
camps during vacation and distance 
learning programs during semesters.

54
Korea Universtiy SDGs 55
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
■ Overseas Service
Social Service Organization (Undergraduates) communicates and works with developing countries online and 
offline for various fields to provide Korean language education, environmental seminars, and solutions for 
social problems.■ Social Innovation Living Labs
To solve real problems such as educational inequalities between urban and rural areas and revitalization of 
local communities, public-academia partnership social innovation living labs are in operation.
Changemakers
This changemaker community aims to promote the regional development of Goseong-
gun, Gangwon-do.
University students form a mentoring team to help middle schoolers identify problems 
for their community development and develop solutions on their own.
Make-A-Thon for Social Issue Ideas: “Job 
Opening for Taebaek Mayor”
This program aims to develop ideas for the urban 
regeneration of Taebaek-city, Gangwon-do. This year, 
college students made use of their major knowledge 
to develop tour programs and PR plans of Taebaek-city. 
Incorporating feedback from local experts and the findings 
from field surveys, this program set out to come up with 
feasible ideas that can be launched as the city’s policy 
measures.
Under the motto, “Taebaek-city Regeneration-Creating 
a City That Attracts Youth”, the entire process, from 
recruitment of participants to orientation, idea submission, and presentation, was conducted online.
The Supreme Excellent Prize was awarded to a team that developed a tour program with the theme of “Ceaty City”; the 
Excellent prize to a team that planned a branding strategy through social media platforms; and the Idea Award to two teams 
that developed a camping and bicycle tour product and a plan to improve travel infrastructure, respectively.
February
Visiting Tashkent, Uzbekistan
Korean language programs and cultural exchange for 
elementary and middle school students at Nurapshen No. 1 
School, and IT College students
August - December
Korea University-Vietnam Joint Online Volunteer Team
PBL-based social contribution project to help solve pending 
issues of Danang by working with Nunga University 
studentsAugust - December
Online Korean language program for Cambodians 
1:1 Korean language education and mentoring for youth 
from underprivileged families in Siem Reap City
October - December
KU-Plekhanov University of Economics in Uzbekistan
Virtual Aral Sea Ecological Environment Seminar and 
Conference

56
Korea Universtiy SDGs 57
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
Clubs Classification & Activities Mapping with the SDGs
New-LearnEducation and counseling
 
  
  •Brain science research and education
ROTARACTSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  
  •Community-level service
LibertasHuman rights protection and peace promotion
 
  
  •Protection of North Korean defectors' human 
rights
Seoul ClubSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  •International student joint service
Granite Tower 
ClubEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•Night school for graduation equivalency exams
Minority 
Human Rights 
CommitteeHuman rights protection and peace promotion
 
  
  
•Protection of minority rights
Silver LiningSolving social problems
 
  
  
  
  
  
•Job creation for seniors
AurumEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•English education and educational service
WoonhwaEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•Youth study room
EnactusSocial problem solving
 
  
  
  
  
•Job creation for multicultural women
IlchegamPromotion of culture, tourism, art and sports
 
  
  
  
 •Physical education and educational service for 
disabled
Jajin-
geunlobanSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  
  
•Community service
KarandashiPromotion of culture, tourism, art and sports
 
  
  
•Korean-Russian traditional fairy tale translation
CocoaEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•IT coding education
Sunshine 
VillageEducation and counseling
 
  
  
 •Community child center education volunteer 
service
Pumpkin 
CarriageEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•Reading and discussion education
Volunteering 
club HowuSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  
•Local community serviceClubs Classification & Activities Mapping with the SDGs
AIESECInternational cooperation and overseas service
 
  
  
•Global youth exchange
KU HOPELocal community development
 
  
  
•Wallpaper and house repair in Seongbuk-gu
KUASEducation and counseling
 
  
•Synthetic biology research and education
KUECSEducation and counseling
 
  
  
•Science and engineering education service
KURCSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  
•Service program affiliated with the Red Cross
KUSAEducation and counseling
  
  
•Children’s center education programs
KUSEPEnvironmental conservation and nature preservation
 
  
  
  
  
  
•Environmental protection planning team
SIDSocial problem solving
 
  
  
  
  
  
 •Support for independence of those with 
developmental disabilities
UNAI AspireHuman rights protection and peace promotion
 
  
  
  
  
•Global citizenship education
Up-greenEducation and counseling
 
  
  
  
  •Academic & career pathway mentoring
WOORIHuman rights protection and peace promotion
 
  
  •Protection of North Korean defectors' human 
rights
Go Go PharmSocial welfare and health promotion
 
  
  
  •Medical service by the Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences
KUNADPromotion of culture, tourism, art and sports
 
  
  •Transmission and performance of traditional 
farmers’ music
GojipCommunity development
 
  
  
  •KU Habitat CCYP■ On-Campus Service Clubs
Selected for the “Volunteer Club Certification System,” 31 on-campus volunteer club teams have been in 
operation with KUSSO’s support.
(For more information: KUSSO website (kusso.korea.ac.kr) > Partner Organizations> On-campus Service 
Clubs)
58
Korea Universtiy SDGs 59
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
 Program Mapping with SDGs
Action Plan
Program R&D Events/Education Implementation Networking
•Major research topics
- Social innovation
- Social problem solving
- Future problem solving
- Education for future talent
-  Advanced technology and 
materials
- KUSSO program evaluation• SDG forum for 
undergraduate students
•SDG Conference
• SDG Undergraduate 
Make-A-Thon and 
Hackathon 
• SDG Undergraduate 
Contest
• SDG International 
Symposium
• SDG-related courses • Implement educational 
SDGs
- Educational service 
program
• Implement environmental 
SDGs 
- Conversion of fine dust 
and plastics into energy
- Health and welfare 
environment
- Living environment
- Environment of Seongbuk-
gu
• Implement village 
regeneration SDGs 
- Urban regeneration of 
Taebaek-si
- Establishment of smart 
farms in border areas
- Building of smart schools 
in border areas
• Publish SDGs-related data• Invite SDGs experts for 
lecture
• Work with Seoul NPO 
Support Center
• Work with domestic NPOs
• Work with foreign NPOs
• Work with domestic 
NGOs
• Work with global NGOs
• Establish CSR partnership
• Strengthen CSR 
partnership
• Operate SDG workshops 
and courses 
• Build private, public, and 
corporate partnership2-2. Social Engagement Organization (Graduates)
Universities are expected to lead multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research and practice for social 
innovation and transformation for sustainable development. As a cradle for creating shared values (CSV) 
based on the SDGs, universities are increasingly required to fulfill their social responsibilities and obligations.
With this in mind, Korea University has established a social engagement organization led by graduate 
students and operated Living Labs to solve social problems. Such a move is also intended to lead practical 
measures and partnership programs so that our university can more actively participate in professional social 
contribution activities based on technology and knowledge through Phase 4 BK21 Project (BK21-4) from 
September 2020. (*BK refers to Brain Korea, a human resource development program offered and granted by 
the Korea Government.)
The Social Engagement Organization (graduate) is an organization dedicated to R&D for social contribution, 
leveraging the technology and knowledge of graduate students. It is mainly led by the 32 educational 
research groups and teams, which are selected for BK21-4, while encouraging graduate students to engage 
in and study technology-based social contribution programs associated with their majors, thereby ultimately 
promoting the concrete implementation of the SDGs. 
[Major Activities/Research Areas]
- ODA (Official Development Assistant) for innovative community education to close educational gap
- Support for and cooperation with non-government organizations, non-profit organizations, and social 
enterprises 
- Living labs for ecology, environment and regeneration
- Research and implementation of other CS  V-related activities
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
1 SDG No 2 SDG No 3 SDG No 4 SDG No 5 SDG No 6 SDG No 7 SDG No 8 SDG No 9 SDG No 10 SDG No 11 SDG No 12 SDG No 13 SDG No 14 SDG No 15 SDG No 16 SDG No 17 SDG No
Frequency by SDG
60
Korea Universtiy SDGs 61
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
Action Plan to Implement the SDGs BK21-4 Research Living Labs for implementation of the SDGs
SDGs on Environment & Health
Division of Environmental Science & 
Ecological Engineering (Director Jung, 
Jin-ho)
Interdisciplinary Program in Sustainable 
Living System (Director Lee, Yoon-jung)
Learning Health Systems (Prof. Chung, 
Hae-joo)
College of Health Science (incl. Dean 
Lee, Jong-tae)
SDGs on Education
Department of Education (Director Lee, 
Sang-min)
Business School (Director Lee, Jae-nam)
School of Media & Communication 
(Director Kim, Seong-cheol)
Department of Psychology (Director Kim, 
Hack-jin)
Department of Physics (Director Won, 
Eun-il)NGO/NPO
Division of International Studies (Director 
Kang, Moon-sung)
Urban Development SDGs 
Department of Architecture (Director 
Ryoo, Seong-lyong)
School of Biosystems and Biomedical 
Sciences (Team Head Lee, Dong-ho)
KUSCO & Steering Committee
Headquarters of the Graduate School, 
Each SchoolSDGs on IT/AI
Department of Linguistics (Team Head 
You, Seok-hoon)
School of Biosystems and Biomedical 
Sciences (Team Head Lee, Dong-ho)
Department of Statistics (Team Head 
Choi, Tae-ryon)
School of Industrial Management 
Engineering (Director Kim, Seoung-bum)
Department of Artificial Intelligence 
(Director Lee, Sang-keun)
SDGs on Global Issues
Division of Environmental Science & 
Ecological Engineering (Director Jung, 
Jin-ho)
Department of Statistics (Team Head 
Choi, Tae-ryeon)
Division of International Studies (Director 
Kang, Moon-sung)[u9]R&D
1. Solve future problems
Departments of Physics, 
Department of Chemical 
and Biological Engineering, 
Department of Psychology, 
Department of Industrial 
Management Engineering, 
Division of International 
Studies, etc.
2. Foster future talent
 Department of Chemistry, 
Department of Life Science and 
Biotechnology, Department 
of Mathematics, School 
of Electrical Engineering, 
Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering, 
Department of Chinese and 
Japanese Languages and 
Literatures, Department of 
Economics, School of Media & 
Communication, Department 
of Statistics, Department of 
Artificial Intelligence, etc.
3. Advanced Technologies & 
Materials
Department of Materials 
Science and Engineering, 
School of Biosystems and 
Biomedical Sciences, NBIT 
Converging Science and 
Technology, Convergence 
Major in Precision Public 
Health, Energy & Environment, 
etc.
4. Individual R&D or joint 
R&D programs for social 
contribution by program 
groups/teams above
5. KUSCO program evaluationNetworking
1. Invite SDG experts for 
lecture
2. Work with Seoul NPO 
Support Center
3. Work with domestic NPOs
4. Work with foreign NPOs
5. Hold domestic NGO forums
6. Hold global NGO forums
7. Establish CSR partnership
8. Strengthen CSR partnership
9. Operate SDGs workshops 
and general education courses 
10. Forge and implement SDG 
cooperation projects with 
BK21-4 groups/teams and 
NPOs 
11. Build private, public, and 
corporate partnershipImplementation
1. Implement SDGs on 
education
1) Department of Physics: 
Science education
2) Department of Linguistics: 
Coding, Big Data, IT education
3) Department of Education: 
Educational ODA
4) Department of Psychology: 
Emotional support
2. Implement SDGs on 
environment
1) Division of Environmental 
Science & Ecological 
Engineering: Conversion of 
fine dust and plastics into 
energy 
2) School of Health and 
Environmental Science: Health, 
welfare, and environment
3) Interdisciplinary Program 
in Sustainable Living System: 
Living environment
4) Department of Architecture: 
Environment of Seongbuk-gu 
3. Implement SDGs on 
village regeneration
1) Department of Architecture: 
Urban regeneration of 
Taebaek-si
2) School of Biosystems and 
Biomedical Sciences: Smart 
farms in border areas
(working with LG U+, National 
Agricultural Cooperative 
Federation)
4. Publish SDGs-related dataEvents/Education
1. SDG forums led by graduate 
schools: Biannual (Spring/
Autumn)
2. Professor/Researcher SDG 
Conference: 
Annual
3. Graduate Make-A-Thon on 
SDGs: Annual (1st semester)
4. Graduate Hackathon on 
SDGs: Annual (2nd semester)
5. SDG Contest: Biannual (led 
by groups/teams)
6. SDG Symposium: Annual 
(Winter)
7. Opening of SDGs-related 
courses: One for each school 
and one as a common subject 
(College of Health Science and 
Graduate School)
62
Korea Universtiy SDGs 63
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
2-3. Symposiums and Research on the SDGs
■ Symposium: “University Innovation for the Implementation of the SDGs”
The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), one of the most important priorities of the global 
community, have drawn renewed attention from across the world in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Tech giants such as Google are focusing their efforts on achieving the SDGs, stressing ‘pursuing them is 
the key to business management, not philanthropic efforts.’ Universities are also sharing new values and 
directions with the international community while contemplating their role in responding to global crises.
Keeping up with such trends of the times, the Korea University Research Planning Committee held the 
“University Innovation for SDG Implementation” symposium on July 22 at SK Future Hall's Chey Jong-hyun 
Hall. The event was attended only by the dean of each college due to COVID-19, and it was broadcast in real 
time through the Committee’s YouTube channel.
■ Nature Forum: Plastics and Sustainability
[Date]  December 1, 2020  [Time]  7:00-10:00 am (UK) | 4:00-7:00 pm (Korea)
Plastic pollution is a pressing environmental and public health problem, related to the large quantities of 
single-use plastics, its persistence in the environment, and low rates of plastic recycling and regeneration. 
Plastic particles in the environment are projected to increase significantly in upcoming years, and products of 
their degradation - micro(nano)plastics (MNPs) - are transported through aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
During this Nature Forum, plastic waste management, the fate, transport, and effects of MNPs in the 
environment, and public policy was discussed. Panel discussions were made to identify key research needs in 
plastic research and aim to provide potential solutions to plastic pollution in the context of the relevant United 
Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
Presenters were:
- Dr. Fabio Pulizzi, Chief Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
- Dr. Laura Zinke, Associate Editor, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment
- Dr. Jin-Han Ree, Vice President for Research, Korea University
- Dr. Yohwan Son, Professor, Asia Resilience Center, Korea University
- Prof. Yong Sik Ok, Director, Association of Pacific Rim Universities (APRU) Sustainable Waste Management, 
Korea University
- Carol Sze Ki Lin, Associate Professor, School of Energy and Environment, City University of Hong Kong
- Michael S. Bank, Senior Scientist, Institute of Marine Research, Bergen, Norway
- Matthias C. Rillig, Professor, Freie Universität  Berlin, Germany
- Denise M Mitrano, Assistant Professor, Environmental Chemistry of Anthropogenic Materials, ETH Zurich

64
Korea Universtiy SDGs 65
PART 2. SDGs and KU's Contributions
Professors Departments SDGs Areas
Lee, Woo-KyunEnvironmental Science & Ecological 
EngineeringSDGs 12, 13, 15: Climate change & its impact, forestation, & plastic 
pollution
Ok, Yong SikEnvironmental Science & Ecological 
Engineering; APRUSDGs 12, 15: Sustainable waste management
Chung, Haejoo Health and Policy ManagementSDGs 3 & 11: Good health & wellbeing; Sustainable cities & 
communities
Chung, Suh-
yongDivision of International Studies & 
Graduate School of International 
StudiesSDGs 10, 13, 17: Political Economy of Climate Change, Sustainable 
Development in Asia, Human Rights
Choi, Jae-
Wook Preventive MedicineSDGs 3, 4, 6, 17: Environmental issues, industrial health, healthcare 
services, quality education
Kang, Sung Jin Economics SDGs 6, 10, 11: Health & environment, Reduced inequalities, 
sustainable cities
Kim, Tae WookEnvironmental Science & Ecological 
Engineering;SDGs 14: Marine pollution, marine resources for SDGs
Lee, Jong-Tae Health and Policy Management SDGs principles and ESD
Shin, Min Jung Biosystems & Biomedical Sciences ESD (Education for Sustainable Development)
Choi, Jin Wook Public Administration SDGs 16, 17: ODA(Official Development Assistance) for SDGs
Eur, Do SeonEnglish Education; Director of KUSSO 
(Korea University Social Services 
Organization)K-SDGs & SDGs 4, 7, 11, 13, 16, 17: Quality education, sustainable 
energy, sustainable cities, climate actions, peaceful societies, 
partnerships for SDGs
Cho, Hun HeeSchool of Civil, Environmental and 
Architectural EngineeringSDGs 11: Sustainable cities
Byun, Kiyong EducationSDGs 4, 10: Higher-Education ODA for SDGs, sustainable community 
developmentKU’s faculty members and researchers involved in SDG-related activities Korea University’s Research Topics and Results by SDG
Many KU researchers and professors other than those mentioned above promote SDGs and play a significant role in achieving 
SDGs in both Korea and other countries by providing education for sustainable development (ESD), new knowledge, innovative 
technology, leaderships, and practical solutions to the challenges and problems our world is faced with.The 
number of 
publicationsTopic Cluster nameThe 
number of 
publications
SDG 01 12Migration, Migrant, Immigrant
Party, Election, Voter
Industry, Innovation, Entrepreneurship 2
2
2
SDG 02 110Soil, Biochar, Soil Organic Carbon 
Membranes, Desalination, Ultrafiltration 19
15
SDG 03 7,679Alzheimer Disease, Dementia, Amyloid  
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention, Patients, Myocardial Infarction 
Human Influenza, Orthomyxoviridae, Influenza Vaccines
Thyroid Neoplasms, Thyroid Gland, Thyroidectomy 138
132
113
106
SDG 04 27Child, Malnutrition, Food
Design, Human Computer Interaction, Augmented Reality 
Television, Semantics, Applications 
Sustainability, Sustainable Development, Students
Students, Teaching, Education, Computer Science 
Education, Wages, Inequality  3
2
2
2
2
2
SDG 05 27Violence, Women, Child 
Family, Woman, Marriage
Monetary Policy, Economic Growth, Exports
Health, Delivery of Health Care, Women 
Industry, Innovation, Entrepreneurship3
3
2
2
2
SDG 06 104Soil, Biochar, Soil Organic Carbon 
Water distribution Systems, Water Supply Systems, Pipelines 
Ozonization, Degradation, Wastewater Treatment 12
10
9
SDG 07 1,124Secondary Batteries, Electronic Batteries, Lithium Alloys 
Photocatalysis, Photocatalysts, Solar Cells
Organic Light Emitting Diodes(OLED), Solar Cells, Conjugated Polymers 248
137
95
SDG 08 113Monetary Policy, Economic Growth, Exports 
Industry, Innovation, Entrepreneurship 23
15
SDG 09 58Industry, Innovation, Entrepreneurship
Wireless Sensor Networks, Sensor Nodes, Routing Protocols 18
4
SDG 10 72Monetary Policy, Economic Growth, Exports
Migration, Migrant, Immigrant   22
10
SDG 11 153Particulate Matter, Air Pollution, Air Pollutants 
Aerosols, Air Quality, Atmospheric Aerosols
Storm water, Storm Sewers, Rainwater 15
13
12
SDG 12 161Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance, Firms 
Catalysts, Zeolites, Hydrogenation 19
6
SDG 13 207Climate Models, Model, Rainfall 
Fires, Forests, Wildfires
Electricity, Energy, Economics 21
14
10
SDG 14 71Cambrian, Cretaceous, Ordovician
Macroalgae, Rhodophycota, Seaweed6
4
SDG 15 81Soil, Biochar, Soil Organic Carbon
Storm water, Storm Sewers, Rainwater 
Ecosystem Services, Willingness To Pay, Valuation 
Fires, Forests, Wildfires 7
5
5
5
SDG 16 178Computer Crime, Network Security, Intrusion Detection
Migration, Migrant, Immigrant
Cryptography, Authentication, Data Privacy 45
12
9
1. Activities of Relevant Departments
Korea University Medicine Ⅰ Korea University Diversity Council Ⅰ 
Institute for Future Growth Ⅰ OJeong Eco-Resilience Institute Ⅰ 
Human Rights Center Ⅰ KU π-Village
SW Education Service Organization Ⅰ Sejong Campus Ⅰ 
Individual College
2. 2020 KU Social Contribution News2020-2021
Korea University’s Social 
Engagement and the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)Part 3.
KU’s Social Contribution Activities
68
Korea Universtiy SDGs 69
PART 3. KU's Social Contribution Activities
1-1. Activities of Relevant Departments
In the spirit of sharing and volunteering, Korea University Medicine has been actively engaged in humanitarian 
assistance in disaster-affected areas at home and abroad as well as in free medical services for rural areas.The Institute examines policy measures for balanced development between industries and economic sectors 
of Korea, while conducting educational projects to foster future leaders in economy. As it is urgent for Korea 
to improve its industrial structure, the Institute aims to contribute to the sustainable growth of the Korean 
economy by establishing a basic research infrastructure through interdisciplinary approaches. It also desires to 
provide appropriate policy directions for the Korean economy through practical and systematic research.
The Korea University Diversity Council, as an advisory 
body for the President, consults and proposes policies 
to protect and promote diversity of our university.
The Council published the “Korea University Diversity 
Report 2019”, the first of its kind at a private 
university in Korea. The report addresses diversity 
status of our university, such as gender and family 
background.In order to maintain a sustainable natural and urban environment, the Institute connects the concepts of 
environmental planning, ecosystem services, and resilience*, including landscaping, to establish a network of 
scholars and practitioners across Korea, Asia and the world through innovative and creative research.
* Resilience here refers to the capacity to allow humans and nature to continue to coexist as a single social 
ecosystem. The Institute promotes discussions on practical measures to utilize principles such as diversity, 
connectivity, redundancy, and governance as tools to improve the resilience of the social ecosystem.To contain the COVID-19 outbreak in 
Daegu and Gyeongbuk, KU Medicine 
dispatched medical staff to community 
treatment centers in the region.BioZentech Co., Ltd, a subsidiary 
of Korea University Guro Hospital, 
developed new technology for high-
speed multi-molecular diagnosis of the 
COVID-19.The KU Virus Disease Research Institute, 
Department of Microbiology, succeeded 
in deciphering the full-length sequence 
of the new coronavirus genome from 
patient samples. This is a breakthrough 
in identifying the coronavirus’  
mechanism, which can lead to the 
development of vaccines.
Korea University Medicine   https://www.kmc.or.kr Institute for Future Growth       http://ifg.korea.ac.kr/
Korea University Diversity Council   https://diversity.korea.
ac.krty MedicineOJeong Eco-Resilience Institute    http://ojeri.korea.ac.kr/

70
Korea Universtiy SDGs 71
PART 3. KU's Social Contribution Activities
The SW Education Service Organization of the College of Informatics consists of professors, researchers, and 
students. As experts in software education, they seek education for learning and growing together through 
sharing knowledge.
Their main activities include software education for elementary and secondary students and mentoring for 
career and learning pathways; the operation and support of software camps for university students in relevant 
majors and others; special lectures and education support to disseminate the value of software across local 
communities; and software camps and weekly education activities as outreach programs to marginalized 
areas.The Human Rights Center implements the ``human rights and gender equality education'' to protect school 
members from any infringement on their sexual self-determination and other basic rights. The Center also 
provides immediate actions and professional counseling in case any violation of rights occurs on campus. In 
addition, in order to create a culture and environment rooted in respect for human rights, gender equality, 
and mutual respect, it strives to contribute to creating a campus in which everyone can exert their ability to 
the fullest without discrimination or compromise on their dignity.
The KU π-village consists of three spaces: π-Ville99, KU Makerspace, and X-GARAGE. It provides equipment 
and training for students to translate their creative ideas into reality in these spaces. It provides an open space 
for those who want to produce prototypes to start a business.
On Sejong Campus, student volunteer groups and faculty members join together to volunteer. Various 
programs are being run, including visits to local nursing homes, delivery of briquettes to the vulnerable, and 
fundraising.
Human Rights Center    http://equity.korea.ac.kr SW Education Service Organization https://www.facebook.com/kuswgroup/
KU π-Village       https://piville.kr 
Sejong Campus        https://sejong.korea.ac.kr 

72
Korea Universtiy SDGs 73
PART 3. KU's Social Contribution Activities
Social Contribution Activities by Individual College
Departments Programs Classification
CORE Project GroupHumanities Class Camp 
for Youth in Junior High School Free SemesterLecture
Summer Humanities Course for Citizens Lecture
 “Humanities Lecture of Hope”
for inmates of the Seoul Southern Detention CenterConference and Lecture
KU-HCM Talent Cultivation 
Project Team Chronic disease prevention and management: Education and 
counseling for metabolic syndrome prevention and management Health Education/
Counseling,
Metabolic Syndrome Test
Outreach to Nepalese immigrants on Jangbong IslandHealth Education/
Counseling,
Metabolic Syndrome Test
Business School Business School Youth Mentoring Day Education
Innovation center for 
Engineering EducationServant Leadership Program Education
Russian Language and 
Literature, College of Liberal 
ArtsKarandash ( Карандаши )
- Korean-Russian Traditional Fairy Tale Translation SocietyEducation
Capital Planning Department, 
Office of Development & 
External AffairsJUMP Mentoring Program Completion Ceremony and Fund usage 
report supportEducation
Inviting students from low-income families in Seongbuk-gu to 
Crimson ConcertCultural Experience
Research Institute of Korean 
StudiesRIKS Academy Education
RIKS Academy Education
Peace School Education
Peace and Culture Concert Education
Curatorial, MuseumFree Semester System Education
Museum of our neighborhood-After school children's education    Education
Museum? Playground! ? Summer/Winter Vacation Children's 
Education  Education
Cheon Shin-il Development Fund Museum Cultural Lecture
<Classic Festival> seriesEducation
Teaching Profession Team, 
College of EducationEducation service partnering with Seongbuk-gu Office Education
Department of Mathematics 
Education, College of EducationKorea University Mathematics Education Department 
Mathematics Experience ExhibitionEducation
Student Counseling CenterSupport for counseling at Samsung Dream Class Summer Camp Education
MBTI Workshop for KUSSO’s students Education
Nonviolent Dialogue Workshop for student ambassadors Education
”Love Life” PR Campaign Education1-2. 2020 Korea University Social Contribution News

74
Korea Universtiy SDGs
References
- Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (United Nations, 2015)
- Getting Started with the SDGs in Universities (SDSN, https://www.unsdsn.org, 2017), 
- The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (Ministry of Environment, 2018)
- The 2030 Seoul Sustainable Development Goals (Seoul Metropolitan Government, 2018)
- KU and Sustainable Development Goals (Korea University, 2020)
- A Study on the Innovation of University Education and the Improvement of the Social Role of University 
through SDGs (Korean Comparative Government Review 24-2, 2020)
Relevant Websites
KUSSO 
WebsiteKUSSO
FacebookKUSSO
InstagramKUSSO
YouTube
2020-2021
Korea University’s Social Engagement and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Publisher  Eur Do-seon
Issue date  January 2021
Executive manager  Moon Taek-su
Planning & Production  Seok Hwa-jeong
Publisher  Korea University Social Service Organization Support Department
Address  #113, Central Plaza, Korea University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul
Phone  82-2-3290-5051~42020-2021
Korea University’s Social 
Engagement and the 
Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)
Korea University
Social Service Organization,
KUSSO
