Vision och övergripande  
mål för KTH
Vision and overall goals 
for KTH
Overall goals for the period 2024–2028
Vision
We take the lead for a 
sustainable society
KTH shapes the future through education, research and 
innovation. Situated in one of the world’s most dynamic cities, 
we stand as a unifying force internationally to tackle global 
challenges. We embrace diversity and attract talent from 
across the globe. Together we bring ideas to life. Our academic 
freedom and principles of openness and transparency 
are fundamental to democracy and the advancement of 
knowledge. We are bold, creative, and responsible, driven by 
our purpose to enable sustainable and gender-equal societies.
Overall goals for the period 2024–2028
Education
KTH’s education shall be of the highest 
quality and internationally competitive
KTH shall educate a wide range of engineers, 
architects, teachers, and researchers who 
can lead the transformation to a sustainable, 
gender-equal world. Our education programs 
shall advance knowledge in society and meet 
the job market’s need for highly qualified 
labour and flexible continuing professional 
development.
Our education programs shall be 
relevant to a rapidly changing world and be 
characterised by pedagogic renewal, student-
centered learning, research-based knowledge, 
and flexible study paths. There shall be a 
close link between education and research, 
with teachers who both teach and conduct 
research. We shall develop our students’ 
practical professional skills and their ability 
to think innovatively through interactive 
teaching solutions, open experimental 
environments, and close collaborations with 
industry and other societal stakeholders. 
Students shall develop critical thinking 
and collaborative skills in their education 
programs to be able to manage complex 
challenges responsibly. We shall develop 
responsible entrepreneurship among students 
and provide them with what they need to 
transform ideas into reality. We shall offer 
good opportunities for student exchanges 
that promote international perspectives.Research
KTH’s research shall be world-leading 
and have a major impact  
KTH shall conduct excellent basic research 
and applied research in strong international 
research environments characterised by 
openness, integrity, and academic freedom. 
We shall be a global driving force for bringing 
together different resources and areas of 
expertise in research and innovation. We shall 
contribute to the transformation needed for 
a sustainable society through interdisciplinary 
approaches and collaboration with leading 
universities, industry, and other societal 
stakeholders.
Our teachers and researchers shall have 
competitive conditions in place to conduct 
research, and we shall have the capacity to 
strategically recruit leading international 
academics. We shall promote strong 
academic leadership, and our research 
environments shall be inclusive and equal. 
Our research infrastructures shall be of high 
quality and promote groundbreaking research 
and knowledge exchange. Our research shall 
uphold high credibility, follow sound research 
ethics, and be transparent and accessible. 
KTH shall play an active role at European and 
national levels in the development of research 
policy and funding.Working and study              
environment
KTH’s working and study environment 
shall be attractive, inclusive and equal
KTH’s success is built by our staff and 
students. We shall attract outstanding 
teachers, researchers, and ambitious students 
worldwide. We shall attract the right expertise 
to our support services, contributing to 
the quality of our education and research. 
We shall be an international, development-
oriented university characterised by gender 
equality, diversity, and equal opportunities. 
The varying characteristics, backgrounds, and 
cultures of our staff and students are assets 
that promote high quality in the operation 
of the university. Our campuses shall be 
sustainable, vibrant, and accessible.
The working environment shall be creative 
and safe, where staff thrive and have what 
they need to succeed in their work. We shall 
value a work-life balance for our staff and 
offer flexible working solutions. Our staff 
shall have good opportunities for career 
progression and continuing professional 
development.  
The study environment shall be safe 
and characterised by a rich, inclusive 
student life that offers experiences, social 
connections, and added value for students’ 
long-term development. Our physical and 
digital learning and studying environments 
shall support collaboration and interaction 
between students and teachers.Efficient, sustainable                   
resource management
KTH’s working methods shall be efficient, 
sustainable and forward-looking
KTH shall have the ability to set priorities and 
make changes to improve the efficiency and 
quality of the university’s operations. Our 
finances shall be in balance and we shall use 
our resources responsibly and sustainably. 
We shall have simple processes that are fit 
for purpose, and the support for education 
and research shall be efficient and easily 
accessible. Digital solutions shall simplify 
administration and be used to develop 
operations. We shall have efficient, long-
term premises planning with climate-smart 
buildings designed according to the needs 
and conditions of our operations.
Our organisation shall have a clear division 
of responsibilities, efficient preparatory 
work, and swift decision paths. Collegiality, 
employee engagement, and student influence 
shall be fundamental to our development 
work, and we shall have leadership that 
promotes participation by all staff. A strong, 
forward-looking quality culture shall permeate 
our work to monitor and develop operations.
