KU Leuven  
Mission statement  
KU Leuven is an autonomous university. It was founded in 1425. It was born of and has 
grown within the Catholic tradition. From its Christian view of the world and the human, KU 
Leuven endeavou rs to be a place for open discussion of social, philosophical and ethical 
issues and a critical centre of reflection in and for the Catholic community.  
KU Leuven offers its students an academic education based on high -level research, with the 
aim of prepar ing them to assume their social responsibilities.  
KU Leuven is a research -intensive, internationally oriented university that carries out both 
fundamental and applied research.  It is strongly inter - and multidisciplinary in focus and 
strives for internati onal excellence. To this end, KU Leuven works together actively with its 
research partners at home and abroad.  
KU Leuven encourages personal initiative and critical reflection in a culture of idea 
exchange, cooperation, solidarity and academic freedom. It pursues a proactive diversity 
policy for its students and staff.  
KU Leuven aims to actively participate in public and cultural debate and in the advancement 
of a knowledge -based soc iety. It puts its expertise to the service of society, with particular 
consideration for its most vulnerable members.  
From a basis of social responsibility and scientific expertise, KU Leuven provides high -
quality, comprehensive health care, including spec ialised tertiary  care, in its University 
Hospitals. In doing so it strives toward optimum accessibility and respect for all patients.  
KU Leuven carries out its academic activities at various campuses, research parks and 
hospital facilities in close coopera tion with the members of the KU Leuven Association and 
with its hospital partners.  
Strategic Plan for KU Leuven  
 
1. Truly international  
The transition from a national university with a global reputation to a truly international 
university, in the North and in the South.  
Four goals  
• Inclusive and sustainable internationalisatio n 
• Una Europa as a virtual European campu s 
• Internationalisation 3.0. Students, staff, programmes and partnership s 
• Investing in global developmen t 
Policy priorities  
Towards +50 percent students with international experience.   
International education experiences are undeniably enriching. We therefore  want to make 
immersion in an international environment possible for every student. Already, nearly 40 
percent of all KU Leuven graduates have at least one short -term study -related study abroad 
experience. With no Covid -19-related restrictions, we want at least half of our graduates to 
have such experiences. To achieve this, in addition to traditional semester mobility, we also 
facilitate short study and research stays, participation in summer or winter schools, 
internships at international partner institut ions, international institutions or in the international 
business world and group travel. With new and adapted scholarship programmes and flexible 
mobility windows, we pay special attention to students who belong to disadvantaged groups. 
In addition, we ar e fully committed to developing and registering virtual and hybrid forms of 
international mobility, building on the experiences gained during the pandemic.   
With its 12,000 international students, KU Leuven is also 'locally international'. We work on 
truly  international local learning environments, which lead to the development of intercultural 
competences for every KU Leuven student. These ambitions are fully in line with the 
Erasmus+ programme 2021 -2027 in which inclusive mobility, sustainability and 
digitalisation are top priorities. We are reinforcing these ambitions within the framework of 
Una Europa in which we work intensively with 10 other top universities, partly funded by the 
European Commission in the European Universities Initiative.  
2. Future -oriented education  
The choice for a future -oriented teaching model based on activation and a matching structure 
of the academic year.  
  
Six goals  
• Components to support and preconditions for active learning  
• A holistic approach to supporting students  
• Social engagement and broad education for all students  
• Curricula of the future  
• An integrated approach to higher education  
• Appreciation of teaching commit ments within sustainable study programmes  
Policy priorities  
Curricula of the future  
At KU Leuven, we are proud of our programmes, which are continually inspired by the latest 
scientific findings. This is how we prepare our students to take social responsib ility. That 
society challenges us to train people who can forge connections between different fields of 
science beyond the boundaries of their field.   
We are therefore committed to a robust renewal of our programme offerings, in line with 
social evolutions . This occurs not just in terms of design, but above all in terms of content 
and beyond the more traditional disciplines. Consider, in particular, developments in 
healthcare, where technological advances and far -reaching digitisation go hand in hand with 
personalised treatment. Or the merging of art, product design and architecture in creative 
makers of the future. In Humanities and Social Sciences, we are renewing our programmes to 
respond to the increasing importance of data processing. On the internation al front, we are 
shaping new programmes that take place within our European university Una Europa, within 
which KU Leuven has a strong partnership with 10 other top universities.   
A holistic supervision of our students  
Offering students every opportunity i n their studies and personal development, we 
increasingly do this from a holistic approach that takes the student's learning and life into 
consideration. The focus on the mental well -being of our students, the importance of social 
cohesion and interaction between students but also between our professors, researchers and 
students has increased, partly reinforced by the Covid -19 pandemic. We want to further 
evolve in a guidance model that suits our on -campus education and leads to a stimulating and 
positive l iving and learning climate. Together with the emphasis we place on activating 
education and educational innovation, this also benefits academic progress and academic 
success. After all, well -being and resilience go hand in hand with motivated and deep 
learning. They reinforce each other.   
Therefore, we are integrating supervision in the areas of 'living' and 'learning' into a guidance 
model in which the student is central and student career counsellors together with the 
university -wide student guidance team  work together in an interdisciplinary manner via local 
hubs on campus, in close proximity to the student. We are building a support continuum for 
mental well -being, ranging from a preventative approach to therapeutic offerings, and we are 
committed to pee r-to-peer activities between students.  We also use digital tools such as 
learning dashboards with personalised and data -based feedback on (their) academic 
outcomes, which give students more insight into their academic situation and facilitate 
reflection a nd ownership regarding their educational career.  
3. Going digital  
The use of educational technology in a way that facilitates collaborative learning and multi -
campus education and broadens the international reach.  
Five goals  
• Integration of blended learn ing 
• Integration of blended assessment  
• Digital transformation of learning spaces  
• Digital transformation of Lifelong Learning (LLL)  
• Digital transformation of educational innovation through KU Leuven Learning Lab  
Policy priority  
Physical and digital education  go hand in hand  
In recent years, we have invested heavily - accelerated in part by the Covid -19 pandemic - in 
the targeted use of technology in our education. Moreover,  we were forced to temporarily 
switch to digital first and even digital only in coronav irus times.   
Based on the lessons learned from this, we now want to evolve towards an optimal 
combination of physical and digital education. Face -to-face instruction will, of course, retain 
its rightful place. We stay human. However, at the same time, we will be using technology in 
a targeted way to take the next steps in quality blended education, and from now on, for both 
learning and evaluation. Integrat ion and flexibility are central to this. Going digital next gen!  
To this end, we want to thoroughly revamp our digital learning environment and develop it 
further with additional functionalities for intelligent feedback and interactive and 
collaborative le arning as well as for online evaluation. In the physical teaching and learning 
spaces, we are also  developing technology to facilitate interactive and collaborative learning 
as well as multi -location learning as much as possible.   
To achieve a true digital  transformation of our education, we will simultaneously redesign 
our educational organisation. To this end, we are committed, among other things, to flexible 
support and professionalisation opportunities for the entire staff by strengthening our KU 
Leuven  Learning Lab learning network, which has already made a difference during the 
pandemic.  
Technology in education is here to stay at KU Leuven. Albeit in a balanced combination with 
physical education. We are going for the best of both worlds.  
4. Sustain ability  
The choice for sustainable management and a commitment to the Sustainable Development 
Goals in research and education.  
Five goals  
• KU Leuven is moving toward becoming truly sustainable and climate -neutral by 2050. To that 
end, we are developing a co herent vision and strategy for a sustainable, climate -neutral 
university; i.e. we are taking concrete steps towards becoming a sustainable, climate -neutral 
university.  
• We strengthen our internal operations and networks around sustainability.  
• We further dev elop education for and about sustainability and offer all students the 
opportunity to acquire knowledge and skills on sustainable development.  
• We interact with society at large through well -organised interfaces.  
• We stimulate sustainability research at KU L euven.  
Policy priorities  
Give your students all the necessary knowledge about sustainability  
KU Leuven has offered the university -wide course 'Global Challenges for a Sustainable 
Society' for two years now. The course introduces students to the major chall enges facing our 
society today: climate change, migration, inequality, etc. They learn about the current 
situation of these challenges, the underlying causes and consider different solution strategies. 
We provide broad, basic scientific knowledge and highl ight the connections between the 
various topics and the complexities involved.  
These insights concern  each and every one of us. It shows in the figures: about 40% of the 
participants in 2022 were from outside KU Leuven. We now hope to offer this course to a 
global audience. That is why we are building an online, English -language version that is 
accessible to everyone, regardless of age, location or background.   
The course will be modular. This will allow for the widest possible use of the content: 
modules a nd even individual videos can be used in classes, programmes, lectures, etc.  
Connect with society  
Working towards sustainability, in both education and research, is in our university's DNA. 
But that shouldn't be the end point: a university must also try to  provide answers to those 
questions that policy -makers face in their daily practice when trying to make their city, region 
or country more sustainable. Cities are increasingly the focus of a movement towards a more 
sustainable society, both ecologically an d socially. That is why, together with the city of 
Leuven, UCLL and imec, we recently set up the Leuven 2030 Urban Lab. The Urban Lab 
will introduce our researchers (and those of our partner institutions) to the questions of policy 
makers and society in a structured manner. This should make it possible to jointly search for 
the right solutions. The launch event, with over 100 participants, was already promising 
(https://pers.leuven.be/gelanceerd -leuven -2030 -urban -lab).  We will also actively seek 
funding to gether for these research initiatives. Leuven 2030 focuses primarily on our 
historical home town, but nothing prevents similar initiatives from being taken in the other 
cities where KU Leuven is active, in cooperation with other knowledge institutions.   
Practice what you preach: an energy plan for KU Leuven  
Indeed, it is important to think about sustainability at a university and develop new science 
and insights. And of course, the university's own emissions pale into insignificance compared 
to what the wor ld or even Flanders emits. Nevertheless, it is very important that a knowledge 
institution itself also takes drastic measures to reduce its own emissions. After all, a 
university can only be credible vis -à-vis its staff, its students and the wider communit y if it 
practices what it preaches. Otherwise, all this attention to sustainability may appear to be 
mere window dressing. The problem is not so much that this would damage the reputation of 
our university, but that our message to students and society woul d lose a lot of credibility and 
impact.   
This is exactly why KU Leuven recently developed a new and ambitious energy plan. It rests 
on two major principles. The first is that new buildings of KU Leuven will be completely 
fossil free: heating is done with g reen energy (mostly heat pumps), plus we have been buying 
only green electricity for some time now. But KU Leuven, of course, already has an 
important real estate patrimony, much of which consists of historical buildings. Renovation is 
therefore just as im portant as new construction, and here we provide low -fossil heating that is 
70-80% green. Of course, we also continue to work in other fields: we use energy as 
sparingly as possible, for example by switching to LED lighting and replacing single -glazing 
as quickly as possible, and we reduce our water consumption by encouraging recycling and 
detecting leaks as quickly as possible. In short, we will systematically green our building 
stock in the coming years. In doing so, we are not only reducing our CO 2 emiss ions, but also 
(and perhaps especially) sending a clear signal: KU Leuven does not just advocate 
sustainability, it puts it into practice.   
Transversal theme: Inclusive university  
KU Leuven strives for an inclusive, respectful and safe learning,  working and living 
environment.  
Four goals  
• An inclusive, safe and welcoming learning and living environment   
• More diversity in education and research  
• Levers for creating a more diverse workf orce  
• Social engagement: broadening KU Leuven Engage and increasing its sustainability  
Policy priorities  
Towards an inclusive, welcoming, and safe learning and living environment  
An inclusive, welcoming university recognises and embraces the uniqueness of e ach talent 
and provides an open climate and positive culture of collaboration, learning and living.  
To this end, the charter on inclusion with a statement and commitment to greater inclusion, 
respect and safety and the 'inclusion' online platform provide g uidance for students and staff. 
People in leadership positions act as role models in this regard.   
The increasing diversity in our university community also underscores the importance of 
cross -cultural competences. We therefore ensure that diversity skills  are part of training 
modules of students and staff at KU Leuven at key moments such as induction days, 
international mobility, on -boarding initiatives for staff and training of supervisors.   
The current debate on transgressive behaviour in Flemish univers ities, including at KU 
Leuven, calls for accelerated steps forward, not only in terms of prevention, but also through 
various types of intervention. We focus on five lines of action: an external review of the 
current approach, a revision of the disciplinar y regulations for personnel with specific 
attention to the senior academic staff (ZAP), a code of conduct for personnel as a building 
block for a culture of integrity, an adjusted approach to cases and, finally, we work on 
training initiatives and communic ation.  
We strengthen the social engagement of our students and university representatives  
KU Leuven Engage  is a community of engaged students, researchers, a ssistant professors, 
staff members and partners of KU Leuven who, through active commitment, strive to assume 
their social responsibility for, together with and by individuals and groups in vulnerable 
situations. By strengthening the social engagement of s tudents and university representatives, 
KU Leuven contributes to a more inclusive, inclusive, just and humane society.   
The most structured form of social engagement within the curriculum is Service -learning . We 
already have 35 service learning courses in which 1250 students learn academically by 
engaging in, for example, organisations for socially vulnerable children and youth, prisons, or 
care hom es. Our ambition is to set up such a pathway in all faculties, programmes or 
campuses over the next few years.   
An important opportunity for engagement within the curriculum is research with non -profit 
organisations conducted by students as part of a proje ct or thesis. We are making the Science 
Shop , coordinated by the Flemish interuniversity network, even better known as a central 
platform among the partner  organisations, thus contributing to research with a strong social 
valorisation.  
However, there are also opportunities to enthuse students for deep social engagement beyond 
the curriculum: volunteering and student -driven KOTengage . Our aim is for a growing 
number of students to be able to engage with groups in vulnerable situations in the course of 
their studies or contribute to solutions to social challenges, including diversity and 
sustainability.   
The development of sustainable strategic partnerships with civil society organisations and a 
more sustainable KU Leuven Engage will ensure greater engagement between the university 
and society and the realisation of  the KU Leuven mission statement.  
Transversal theme: Livelong learning  
Thanks to lifelong learning  we can offer high -quality training for everyone who also wants to 
continue to develop their mind.  
Five goals  
• Development of an Academy for Lifelong Learni ng 
• Development of an organisational and funding model  
• Development of a search platform  
• A backbone for lifelong learning  
• Micro -credentials and stackable credits  
Policy priorities  
Academy for Lifelong Learning  
In line with what we see happening in more and more research universities, KU Leuven 
wants to develop a high -quality offer of lifelong learning for experienced adults/professionals 
in an Academy for Lifelong Learning.  
In the period 1/2022 -06/2023, we will work out the contours of an Academy for Lifelong 
Learning (working name) that bundles and clearly positions the initiatives in the field of 
lifelong learning. In a joint steering committee at KU Leuven Association level, we explore 
the possibility of evolv ing towards one joint Academy in which KU Leuven, LUCA, Odisee, 
Thomas More, UCLL and Vives join forces. An Academy at the level of the KU Leuven 
Association leads to an offer width that is unparalleled in the Low Countries. A central 
concertation and/or b undling allows the universities of applied sciences and the university to 
develop a combined or complementary offering in areas where this is relevant. Economies of 
scale can also be realised in areas such as logistical support, quality assurance, ICT, 
marketing, platform development, etc. However, this can only work if a clear mission 
statement is developed, with a demarcation of administrative powers that remain with the 
partner institutions versus decisions that are jointly taken by the Academy's partner s. This 
requires a governance model. This will be developed in the joint steering group.  
 
