Operations and future plans  
Vision and long -term goals  
Future paradigm  
We will place emphasis on research at the wellspring of disciplinary knowledge, advance 
cutting -edge, original research, enhance our role as a hub for research of the highest global  
standard, and cultivate individuals capable of assuming leadership positions and making 
important contributions to many fields of social life, all while upholding "academic freedom" 
supported by high ethical standards.  
Long -term goals  
1. We will enrich edu cation in both faculties and graduate schools, enhancing the 
structure and comprehensiveness of educational curricula at both levels and raising 
the mobility of students from faculties to graduate schools as well as between Kyoto 
University and different u niversities. We will also facilitate participation in short - and 
long-term study at universities outside Japan in order to foster cosmopolitan outlooks.  
2. In the faculties, we will deliver education that equips each student with broad 
outlooks, academic sop histication, language proficiency, and fundamental knowledge 
in their field of specialization. For this purpose we will devise means such as small 
classes and build finely -tuned educational systems.  
3. In the graduate schools, we will pursue the highest glob al standards of research and 
endeavor to foster motivated and creative researchers capable of playing active roles 
internationally. We will also work to cultivate high -level professionals.  
4. We will welcome talented researchers regardless of age, gender, or  nationality, and 
create an environment that brings out the best in these researchers in both research 
and education.  
5. We will advance education and research that involves graduate schools, faculties, 
research institutes and centers working in concert and tackling new fields of academic 
endeavor. For this purpose we will adopt flexible approaches to reorganization, 
amalgamation and establishment of new organizations within the university.  
6. We will enable organic collaboration across the Yoshida, Uji and Kat sura campuses, 
explore schemes for the establishment of a city -center campus, and pursue deeper 
connections with the locality of Kyoto and measures to capitalize on the distinctive 
features of this locality.  
7. We will develop support structures across all a reas of research and education at the 
university, and enhance not only research and teaching facilities, but also library 
systems and information technology infrastructure, welfare services, and other 
organizations and facilities that support research and education.  
Mission Statement  
Kyoto University will generate world -class knowledge through freedom and autonomy in 
research that conforms with high ethical standards.  
Research  
As a university that comprehends many graduate schools, faculties, researc h institutes and 
centers, Kyoto University will strive for diverse development in pure and applied research in 
the humanities, sciences and technology, while seeking to integrate these various 
perspectives.  
Education  
Within its broad and varied educational structure, Kyoto University will transmit high -quality 
knowledge and promote independent and interactive learning.  
Kyoto University will educate outstanding and humane researchers and specialists, who will 
contribute  responsibly to the world’s human and ecological community.  
Relationship with Society  
As a university committed to a broad social engagement, Kyoto University will encourage 
cooperation with local and national society, and will disseminate knowledge inform ed by the 
ideals of freedom and peaceful coexistence.  
As an international institution, Kyoto University will promote foreign academic exchange 
and thereby strive to contribute to the well -being of the world.  
Administration  
In order to enhance the free deve lopment of learning, Kyoto University will pay due respect 
to the administrative independence of each of its component institutions, while promoting 
cooperation among them.  
Kyoto University will conduct its administration with regard for the environment an d respect 
for human rights and will be accountable to society at large.  
Programs under the Designated National 
University (DNU) initiative  
Requirements for selection as a Designated National 
University (DNU)  
Based on analyses of human and other resou rces, and including an assessment of evolving 
socio -economic circumstances, each DNU must establish a concrete strategy under the 
program, including time -frames and methods of implementation. Designated institutions are 
expected to spearhead the reform of Japan's national universities, sharing results, best 
practices, and outcomes with impact on the development of society and the economy.  
Six DNU focal areas  
Each DNU must focus its strategies and objectives on the following six areas:  
• Recruitment and develo pment of human capital  
• Strengthening research capabilities  
• Boosting international cooperation and collaboration  
• Collaboration with society  
• Strengthening governance  
• Strengthening the university’s financial base  
KyotoU's overall DNU concept  
Kyoto University' s DNU concept melds the foregoing six focal areas with its own unique 
traditions, seeking to establish innovative forms of university management, and enhancing 
the University's contributions to addressing grand challenges facing humanity.  
• Promote world -leading research by establishing centers to advance the development 
of innovative research by top scholars in diverse fields.  
• Establish locally -managed, "On -site Laboratories" in cooperation with overseas 
partner institutions to promote excha nges in education, industry -academia 
collaboration, and student, staff, and faculty development built on a foundation of 
robust research collaboration.  
• Enhance international flows of knowledge and human capital in an environment of 
diversity and openness.  
• Consolidate the University’s creative and cutting -edge achievements in order to drive 
innovation and boldly investigate contemporary global issues.  
• Swiftly and comprehensively implement effective institutional governance while 
respecting the autonomy and d iversity of the University’s departments and centers.  
• Enhance university -led for -profit ventures to strengthen corporate governance, 
promote the utilization of research outcomes and intellectual property, and maximize 
returns to society.  
 
