Establishment of a future-oriented education and research system.Operation of a specialization-oriented university.Strengthening the role of a National Flagship University.
Core Strategic Objectives
Educational innovation for fostering creative and convergent talent
Introduction and expansion of a student-centered and flexible academic system
Cultivation of the KNU education brand
A virtuous cycle of educational innovation through the AAA system
Securing global leading research competitiveness
Establishing a system for fostering the next-generation of the KNU research brand
Securing excellent future research talent
Improving research environments through creative research support
Securing university competitiveness through specialization
Sustainable specialized projects
Education and research in collaboration with regional industries
Organic specialization by campus
Nurturing next-generation talent for national development
Fostering creative cooperative talent in basic and fundamental academic fields
Cultivating talent to lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution
Nurturing talent for prosperity and peace in Northeast Asia in an era of North-South cooperation
A university that cooperates and communicates with the local region
A leading university in regional industrial-academic cooperation and innovation
A university that grows together with the local region
The KNU "Edudream" that embraces future regional talent
Activating domestic and international exchange opportunities
Establishing a network between universities with regional cooperation
"It's On" key project for enhancing internationalization capacity
Fostering global talent and improving international competitiveness.




Our university, which focuses on "truth, pride, and service," is striving to develop undergraduate education in a future-oriented manner in response to the demands of the times, with the aim of nurturing global creative talent known as "Cheomseongin."
Recently, our university has established the following six core competencies to cultivate Cheomseongin: creativity, integration, criticism, exploration, communication, and responsibility. Accordingly, we are constantly improving our educational curriculums and academic systems to align with these competencies.
Kyungpook National University is constantly improving through transformation, communication, and inspiration.
With the support of the local community, Kyungpook National University was able to earn a reputation as the top prestigious university south of the Han River. Kyungpook National University has fostered the pride of representing Korea by nurturing prominent intellectuals who are current thought leaders. We will actively create change and communicate with the world, and we will strive to become an institution that impresses everyone.
We are always evolving, becoming a knowledge-leading university for the entire world.
We are currently competing with the world. We are cultivating global talents that lead the world by enhancing our research capabilities to meet global standards. Kyeongbuk University will go one step further from being a university that produces knowledge to being a university that leads the flow of knowledge. Kyeongbuk University has the best talents and optimized operational infrastructure. Please watch how our university surprises the local community, nation, and the world.
We prioritize investing in people.
Our biggest asset is people. To cultivate talented individuals who possess the wisdom of the humanities and the skills of science, who enjoy challenges, and who lead the world with creativity and innovation, we will prioritize investing in people. We will first achieve changes on campus so that students, professors, and staff can all trust and cooperate with each other.
