            Strategic Plan for Internationalization      18th of June of 2019                 

Strategic Plan for Internationalization Table of Contents  The Mission, the Vision, and the Values .......................................................................... 3 The Strategic Areas ........................................................... ¡Error! Marcador no definido. The External Agents .......................................................... ¡Error! Marcador no definido. The Actions ....................................................................... ¡Error! Marcador no definido. The Summary .................................................................... ¡Error! Marcador no definido.    
Strategic Plan for Internationalization The Mission  L.N. Gumilyov Eurasian National University, an acknowledged academic, research, social and cultural centre, was founded in 1996 by the Decree of N.A. Nazarbayev, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The core reason for establishing this unique higher education institution was the idea of Eurasian Union.  Establishment of the University, which holds a prominent position in the Eurasian academic landscape, turned this idea into a reality. Today, L.N. Gumilyov Eurasian National University (hereinafter referred to as ENU) is a university with special status acquired under the Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and with sufficiently high international authority; it is an implementer of academic innovative technologies and successor of the best research traditions.  Meanwhile ENU Development Strategy relies on the provisions of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Education”, “On Science”, “On Commercialization of Results of the Scientific and (or) Scientific and Technical Activities”.  Mission: to become a scientific and educational hub in Central Asia Global trends overview  In the twenty-first century, education is one of the most important strategic resources of development for any society and state. At the present time, globalisation, regionalisation, and internationalisation are the principal trends in the development of countries and of the world-wide education system. For instance, the phenomenon of globalisation, which affects the economy, policy, culture, and mass media, significantly influences the education system. It was taken into account in Development Strategy of our University, which positions itself as a research university striving for close cooperation in the sphere of research and professional training. Along with this, higher education internationalisation is implemented through the harmonisation of the content of professional training at all levels of undergraduate and postgraduate education, as well as through the academic mobility of students, faculty members and research fellows.  Globalisation, regionalisation and internationalisation as global trends in the development of higher education determine the key processes, such as the introduction of new education technologies, including information and telecommunication technologies; the deeper integration of education and science, which reflects the core of a university education and preserves its fundamental nature; the maintenance of universities’ autonomy through changing the management systems and expanding academic freedom; providing additional academic services, including those related to the realization of the principle of “lifelong learning”.  Current situation overview  
Strategic Plan for Internationalization The main achievements of ENU activities are as follows:   Membership in international organizations: ENU has been a member of IREG, STAR-NET: Regional Network for Education and Training in Nuclear Technology, The CIS Network University and the University of SCO countries, Turkic Inter-University Union, Scientific and Educational Consortium between universities and research institutes of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus.  International recognition: ENU was awarded the “United Europe” prestigious international medal (Oxford, 2005); the International Socrates award for its contribution to the intellectual development of modern society (Oxford); and “The CIS Best Company” golden star. It was accredited by the Supreme Committee for Non-Jordan Higher Education Institutions Accreditation (the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan). It demonstrates significant results: according to the QS World University Rankings: (top 400) and enters the TOP 50 young universities in the world in the “QS Top Universities Under 50” rating, in 2018 in the QES EECA countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, ranked 40th; is the best Kazakhstani university in the ranking of the websites of world universities “Webometrics”; in 2017 it entered the QS subject rating in the direction of "Physics and Astronomy"; in 2018 - in the authoritative rating of Times Higher Education 1000+; ENU entered the subject rating of Times Higher Education 801+ in the field of physics; received an award from the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States in the category "Services" for achievements in the field of product quality and high- performance quality management methods.  International cooperation:  ENU realizes international cooperation on the basis of 343 contracts with universities, scientific organizations, embassies and scientific and educational funds of 52 countries in Europe, Asia, America, Africa and Oceania. The main areas of cooperation: academic mobility of students and teachers, internships for undergraduates and doctoral students, the involvement of foreign students, joint research, the implementation of the Erasmus + program, etc.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, only in the first semester, 90 foreign teachers were attracted to give lectures and guide the scientific work of students, undergraduates and doctoral students. As part of academic mobility in the 2017-2018 academic year, 338 students were trained in foreign universities. The results of the incoming academic mobility increased by 3 times: at the beginning of the 2018-2019 school year, 574 foreign citizens studied at ENU, including the preparatory department. 30 programs are implemented in foreign languages, 427 disciplines are read in English, which makes the university more attractive.  Successful training is underway in double degree programs. In the 2018-2019 academic year, 30 joint educational programs are implemented with 13 partner universities (8 of them are in the framework of the CIS SU, 4 in the SCO and 18 in the framework of inter-university agreements). The number of Erasmus + program projects is growing, 12 “Capacity building in higher education” projects are being implemented. In the direction of “Jean Monet” of the Erasmus + program, the project “EURODIP European Diplomacy Jean Monnet Chair (Department of Jean Monnet“ European Diplomacy ”) was selected for funding.  
Strategic Plan for Internationalization  An important area of international cooperation in 2018 was the opening of cultural and educational centres in Belarus, China, Turkey and Iran.  SWOT Analysis  S (strength) ü a wide range of educational programmes ü acceptance of documents from applicants during the year ü provision of accommodation for foreign students, including academic mobility; ü the possibility of training in distance learning technologies; ü availability of a preparatory department, Institute of advanced training;  ü financial support for English language courses for teaching staff; ü opportunities to attract foreign specialists (at the expense of the university, financing of the Ministry of Education and Science)  W (weakness) ü inconsistency of educational programs with foreign universities;  ü lack of English proficiency in the attendants (dormitory, office receptionist, canteen, medical station, etc.) ü lack of human resources (calls for the spring semester 232 per employee (document acceptance, consulting, partner search, correspondence with a partner, application, etc.) ü absence in the structure of the university of the marketing department for the organization of centralized work to promote the university ü incomplete development of budget financing of targeted programs (academic mobility, inviting foreign specialists, top managers) due to savings on accommodation   О (opportunity) ü accreditation of double degree programs (increase in the cost of educational programs, harmonization of the content of educational programs, quality of specialists, attraction of foreign students); ü creating an online system for processing applications for academic mobility; ü coordination of the content of educational programs with partner universities (where students go on academic mobility); ü signing contracts with partner universities for the provision of accommodation (Vytautas Magnus University); ü introduction of an online assistant for processing requests on the university website; ü increase in the number of educational programs in English and double degree programs Т (threat)  ü insufficient number of personnel and low wages; ü incomplete development of budgetary funds, due to the refusal of students to participate in academic mobility before leaving, the arrival of foreign specialists  
Strategic Plan for Internationalization  Strategic directions, aims, tasks and expected results   The achievements in  ENU’s development and the disadvantages mentioned above are of concern for the future. The further successful development of ENU can only be achieved by the elimination of the existing limitations. The strategic directions until 2020 ENU development are chosen according to its mission, the vision and development priorities of Kazakhstani society, science and economy, undergraduate and postgraduate education systems, and programmes in the sphere of education. Hence, the following strategic directions, aims, tasks and expected results are determined. The anticipated indicators are presented in accordance with the major stages of ENU Development Strategy.  Strategic Direction 1. Training Competitive Experts  Aim 1.1: Training experts with undergraduate and postgraduate education, meeting the requirements of industrial and innovative development of the RK economy, and the demands of domestic and foreign labour market.   Task 1.1.1: Adjusting ENU procedures to the major parameters of the Bologna process  This task will be implemented through:  - harmonising content of degree programmes in compliance with the similar programmes of foreign partner universities;  - adjusting the academic programmes in accordance with the requirements of the European and National Qualification Frameworks; - concluding cooperation agreements with high-ranked universities to develop academic mobility of students, teaching staff and employees; - attracting foreign students to academic programmes, including those instructed in English;    - increasing the number of participants in international programmes such as ERASMUS +, DAAD and others;  - concluding contracts with foreign and domestic partner universities for academic exchange, joint scientific research, commercialization of projects, upgrading the qualifications of the teaching staff; - concluding agreements with the partner universities of the CIS and far abroad on joint educational programs;  - increasing the proportion of the international students in ENU.   Task 1.1.2: Education services quality assurance.  Meeting the target will be identified relying on the results of external assessment: positions in the international QS World University Rankings and the national University rankings; results the “Academic Achievements’ External Assessment” national 
Strategic Plan for Internationalization independent testing of graduating students’; passing the national and international accreditation; satisfaction of employers with the quality of professional training. Internal assessment also is taken into account: regular monitoring of students’ satisfaction with the quality and conditions of study; regular monitoring of teaching staff’s feedback about the working conditions; progressive changes in the number of bachelor’s graduates who received a diploma with honours, as well as in the number of undergraduates and graduates who continue their studies at master’s and PhD degree programs;  academic quality monitoring; academic and methodical support of education process, including training materials in the state language; targeted allocation of funds to develop the library, modernize and update teaching and laboratory equipment; development of  academic and methodological support with multimedia and Internet components in the state language.   The expected results of the Strategic direction 1 Training Competitive Experts  - The number of dual degree educational programs: in 2019 – 33; in 2020 – 35; in 2021 – 35; - The number of educational programs implemented in the educational process in English: in 2019 – 35; in 2020 – 25; in 2021– 30; - The number of foreign students: in 2019 – 850; in 2020 – 915; in 2021 – 1000; - The number of events to attract foreign students, trips to Central Asian countries: in 2019 –13; in 2020 – 14; in 2021 – 14; - The number of students studying in English in 2019 –1600; in 2020 – 2000; in 2021 – 2500; - The number of students studying in the framework of academic mobility: in 2019 – 425; in 2020 – 500; in 2021 – 550;  Strategic Direction 2. Human Resources and Management System Development  Aim 2.1: Enhancement of professional skills and training of the teaching staff  Task 2.1.1: Attraction of overseas professionals.  The achievement of this task will be provided through increasing the number of foreign professionals from the best world universities involved in academic and research activities; priority of long-term contracts with overseas specialists; promotion of the achievements and opportunities of the University in teaching international students and in joint research activities; organisation of the international scientific and practical activities, developing cooperation with leading foreign universities in order to attract specialists for lecturing and consulting, attracting Kazakh scientists from abroad to conduct research and scientific activities in Kazakhstan, attracting foreign specialists to the top management of the university; participation in international educational exhibitions.  The expected results of the Strategic direction 2. Human Resources and Management System Development 
Strategic Plan for Internationalization  - The number of foreign specialists involved in the educational process, including from the leading universities of the world (Top 400): in 2019 –65; in 2020 – 70; in 2021 – 75; - The number of attracted faculty members from abroad: in 2019 –195; in 2020 – 200; in 2021 – 210; - The number of faculty members teaching in English: in 2019 –425; in 2020 – 450; in 2021 – 460.  Conclusion  To summarise the content of the “2020 Development Strategy of L.N. Gumilyov Eurasian National University”, it is necessary to state that the strategic directions’ implementation will facilitate the University’s transformation into a leading research and academic centre of the Eurasian region, which provides conditions for conducting research and acquiring advanced knowledge, trains specialists to develop the priority sectors of economy, and will be accountable to the Government and society for the outcomes of its activities.    
