Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 1 Introduction  
2022 marks LUMS 35th anniversary. Over this time,  it has become a leading research -intensive university  in 
Pakistan that excel s in teaching  by continuously reimagining and integrating its curriculum . LUMS has attracted 
the brightest and the most talented students across Pakistan by infusing meritocracy throughout everything we 
do. Known for its globally recognized outreach efforts that amplify access, diversity, and inclusion, LUMS has 
prepared generat ions of alumni who are making a difference in all sectors within Pakistan and beyond.  
LUMS has also fully embraced the perspective of Learning Without Borders advocating access to quality 
education and a unity among the discipline s to collectively address  the grand challenges facing Pakistan and 
beyon d.  LUMS has always been a mission -driven  institution . It’s holistic 4 and 5 -year  undergraduate education  
programs  were  the first in the country and adopted by all other universities to better serve the critical needs of 
societ al development . Similarly, over the years , 42 program  offerings across its five Schools engage  in cutting -
edge research and deliver a  21st century curriculum that promotes socially responsible interventions.  
In early 2019, a  white paper  was widely shared to highlight  new strategic directions aimed at strengthen ing 
governance, research intensity, interdisciplinarity, digitization, teaching,  and the student experience  at LUMS .  
Since then, LUMS has shown steady progress in these areas in reports to our broader community including the 
Advisory Board s, the Trustee s, the Management Committee, as well as to our Alumni and Donors. In addition , 
for over two years LUMS has been setting new standards for platform learning and student well-being during 
the Pandemic. Our faculty’s efforts to amplify good teaching pr actices and create novel online learning 
experiences for students was unparalleled during this challenging time.    
 
LUMS is now at the forefront of new opportunities for growth and development . It is a key time to take stock o f 
our progress and outlin e institutional  priorities for the coming decade .  This strategic document  is derived from 
discussions  on various forums  including  meetings of the University Council , advisory boards , senior 
administrat ive councils, as well as the Management Committee . Several high-level priorities emerge d from 
these groups  as a roadmap for growth , build ing on past achievements and strengthen ing LUMS’ societal and 
economic impact into the next decade . The priorities include:  
1. Optimizing the mix of graduate and undergraduate programs  
2. Determining the extent to which we complement in -person offerings with online and hybrid courses, 
certificates, diplomas,  and degrees  
3. Strengthening programming areas and elevating promising centres  as vehicles to promote  
interdisciplinary research, teaching,  and learning  
4. Achieving a greater degree of internationalization with more overseas faculty and students engaged in 
all our core activities  
5. Identifying a sustainable model of fundraising and balanced budgeting.  
Institu tional priorities are work -in-progress goals that require reflection on who we are and setting broad 
targets we can collectively strive to achieve. By necessity, priorities must be simple, so they are clearly 
understood and accompanied by measures that asc ertain system -wide progress. To sustain LUMS’ incredible 
trajectory, a successful future will result from the collective contributions of each school, centre, and office 
whose unique offerings are guided by these shared institutional priorities that encomp asses our Learning 
Without Borders  perspective . Historically, that perspective explains the vital role each School has played in the 
creation of a comprehensive university that represents a national asset for the country.  
 
LUMS is unique having earned a r eputation for research and teaching excellence that has surpassed what is 
generally seen in the Pakistani higher education landscape.  One of our defining characteristics is the promotion 
of academic freedom and scholarship driven by an unwavering commitme nt to serve the broader society.  
As a learning organization, our core scholarly work and the multiple ways in which we disseminate that work 
inside and beyond the classroom remains central . Similarly, our guiding perspective and new directions the 
university has embraced , discussed below , will continue .  
 
Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 2 Guiding Perspective  
Since 1986, o ur founding Suleman Dawood School of Business  (SDSB)  propelled its impact by adopting  case -
based pedagogy to launch its signature MBA programme.  At the same time, T he Rausing  Executive Development 
Centre extended the programmes reach through applied interventions across industry, and today has over 
36,000  alumni.  In 1994, the BSc Honours Programme was initiated and in another two years the School of Arts 
and Science (SAS) bega n to host several  undergraduate programs . By 2002 , The School offered a 5-year 
integrated BA -LLB degree.   
 
10 years hence, the SAS evolved into the Mushtaq Ahmad Gurmani School for Humanities and Social Sciences 
(MGSHSS ) known for a liberal arts programme  develop ing students’ intellectual capacities and skills  through 
learning across disciplines. MGSHSS has continued to integrate  complementary programs which today  offer s 
one of the most progressive interdisciplinary core curricul a in South Asia .  
 
In 2008, the founders of LUMS went further to consolida te the disciplines of pure sciences and professional 
engineering.  Syed Babar Ali, and a group of  International Advisory Board members shared a “no boundaries” 
philosophy as a founding vision to carry out world -class, multidisciplinary education and research.  The evolution 
of infusing professional education with the rich tapestry of liberal arts continued as The Sheikh Ahmad Hassan  
School of Law was established in 2012 , to offer a unique law degree that had deep roots in both MGSHSS and 
SDSB . And more recently in  2018 , a 5th new School of Education  (SOE) broadly defin ed itself as the nexus of all 
disciplines . Since then , SOE’s array of cross -listed programmes  and experiential learning opportunities are  
emblematic of LUMS guiding perspective.  
 
In early 2019, the University  expanded its no-boundaries  perspective  to Learning Without Borders , exemplifying 
its renewed efforts to break academic, geographic, gender, and socio -economical barriers to innovate, serve the 
wider community and make quality education accessible to all. Learning Without Borders  continues to be 
enacted most visibly in the extraordinary work of LUMS’ faculty  who propel our research , teaching,  and 
curriculum excellence frameworks.   
 
The implication  of this perspective  has many dimensions that cont inue  to take  LUMS where few universities 
dare  to go.  For example, all Schools continue to champio n new  interventions to break barriers including those 
that promote gender inclusion from across multiple segments of society in both the student body and its 
leadership ranks. Similarly, all five schools are work ing together to create interdisciplinary programs and 
collaborations that produce leaders in social responsibility to advocate solutions creating real and tangible 
differences to the communities we serve locally and beyond.  
 
LUMS has mitigated the entrench ment of natural silos that arise over time from specialization and disciplinary 
norms  by intentionally integrating, unifying,  and redefining a  well-rounded and  holistic education . As faculty 
work to find new connections across their disciplin ary borders,  LUMS has also embraced a longer view of cross -
disciplinary connections across s chool s. These efforts create a bigger problem -solving space where 
multi disciplin ary approaches locat e vital intersections for experts to collectively produce innovat ive solutions .  
 
Consequently, LUMS guiding perspective of Learning Without Borders  implies we rethink  strategic questions 
about resource allocat ion that implicate  future hiring, career progression, differentiation , and impact . As we 
embrace a learning -based perspective that preserve s our commitment to knowledge creation and its 
dissemination , we also need to acknowledge and celebrate just what has been achieved.  
 
Milestone Achievements  
With the establishment of several  centres for excellence, faculty members from across our schools have been 
working together to address  the challenges fac ing Pakistan and beyond . These centres have formed research 
clusters and collaborat ions with other uni versities, industry,  and the government.  The most promising Centres 
today have identified key questions and a multi -disciplinary focus in the areas of water, energy, big data,  policy,  
technology, entrepreneurship, gender, and teaching and learning . An ambitious design for a central building 
Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 3 complex has been envisioned to showcas e how the work of these  Centres can b ecome more visible on campus 
and how that work can bring LUMS closer to the communities it serve s. 
The University also underwent significant changes to its governance and organisational structures . Using best 
practices from North American and European universities , but fit for purpose to LUMS, an elected 
representative university council (UC), a new university -wide advisory board and school advisory boards, as well 
as the Office of the Provost were established. The UC Steering Committee p romot es interaction between faculty 
and senior admin istration . The Committee  has set the agenda for the UC 24 times since it was formed to 
conduct LUMS academic and administrative business and proactively execute a comprehensive response to the 
challenges arising from the Pandemic.  
We also celebrate the promising appointments of 6 new deans  across 5 schools and in  the Office of Student 
Affairs, the provost, and several directors in the newly established Offices of A dvancement, Accommodation & 
Inclusivity, Learning Institute, Academic Advising, Program Enhancement, and Internationalization . The 
University has  also adopt ed a tri-semester system by adding two 6-week summer terms . This allows students to 
access to oversubscribed courses and more flexibility in managing their workloads  and allows for better 
utilization of campus facilities that otherwise remained unused for 4 months.  LUMS  has also opted to charge 
tuition fees based  on credits taken and have integrat ed our extensive financial support program broadening the 
categories for outreach and those in need.  
Led by the School of Science and Engineering  LUMS institut ed tenure  in 2008  to signal the importance of 
research intensity  and instil the primary importance of producing quality scholarship. The incentives and metrics 
for research excellence created the need for a revised career progression policy to ensure that faculty who 
choos e to excel in teaching could have a viable pathway to pursue tenure and promotion .  The new teaching 
excellence framework includes university -wide criteria  and specific indicators of evidence for supporting 
teaching excellence  in each of our 5 schools.  
LUMS now provides students the unique option to explore  cross -disciplinary learning track s and choose from 
over 17 majors  in 42 programs  across 5 Schools . This also provides opportunities for faculty to explore research 
across multiple disciplines .  Other initiatives such as an institution -wide student partner program, innovating  the 
core curriculum, adding new targeted degree programs  and the development of multiple online and hybrid 
courses  have contributed to our efforts to provide students with more options for personalized learning. 
Accentuating experiential learning has also emerged as a distinctive feature of learning at LUMS hig hlighted by 
internships, practicums , pedagogical partnerships,  and the more recent twinning program with the University of 
Baltistan in Skardu.  
Capital projects on campus were also accelerated. As we consider new structures for more dedicated classroom 
space, the renovation of staff and faculty offices, stores, campus restaurants, new buildings for female and 
faculty residence, remain paramount. Each renovation pays foremost attention to creat e learning spaces  be 
they in the hallways of the Academic block o r seating outside the Khoka and the Green Olive restaurant . 
Notably, the University has also recently launched LUMS X – an online campus for existing students as well as 
new learners that will feature exemplary courses , certificates, and programs at par with international  quality 
standards .   
Maximizing our Impact  
Building on a history  of achievements, LUMS remains committed to strengthen  research intensity  and teaching 
excellence , its governance, interdisciplinarity, digitization, and the student experience . To extend  LUMS ’ impact , 
we look to increase our capacit y in mak ing a big ger difference on our students’  experience , on society at large 
and in the broader context of our region al stand ing. 
 
Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 4 Impact o n Students  
It is widely believed that LUMS does well in preparing our students to be engaged and thoughtful citizens who 
can think critically, solve problems, collaborate and who are self -motivated to make a positive impact in society.  
How do we further a LUMS education that instils skills valued by employers and knowledge needed to challenge 
conventional thinking ? How do we promote LUMS values that communicate  habits that personify  integrity, 
empathy, and civic responsibility ? While the global pandemic has instilled a sense that changes in the delivery of 
higher education are a certainty, we are well positioned to respond.  
Over the next decade , LUMS will  continue to  build a holisti c learner experience by  expand ing its interdisciplinary  
offerings that connect with their rapidly changing future career options .  Many of our students come from 
historically disadvantaged communities (locally and nationally) or are the first in their families to attend 
university  and they often benefit from additional supports and tailored mentorship opportunities.   
Providing more choice s to work on campus opens new doors for applied learning , social interaction,  and ethical 
development . These choices are already becoming visible through internships, practicums, field -based and 
service -based learning  opportunities , and the widespread growth of pedagogical partnerships with faculty and 
staff .  Students should conti nue to be encouraged to become authors of their own learning experiences.  
Cultivating positive experiences for all our students is essential to our values and focus on holistic education  and 
these experiences, in turn, will define important parts of their lifelong relationship with the University as alumni.  
In the next 10 years, LUMS can accelerate its efforts  to provide multiple learning opportunities and options for 
all students, whethe r online or in physical classroom and through dynamic interdisciplinary programming  and 
experiential learning.  Helping our students to succeed will require a strong, unwavering institutional 
commitment to focusing on academic excellence, innovation, and t he continued health and wellness of our 
students.   
Impact o n Society  
With its focus on solving grand challenges, LUMS is well positioned to  play an informed, critical role in the social, 
economic, and cultural development of our Country.  It is well known that Pakistan faces systemic social, 
economic, and environmental issues that significantly hinder the well-being  of its population.  Some of the many 
‘hard’ challenges include transportation, energy, water management, communication systems, while other ‘soft ’ 
challenges are in the realm of financial, health care, education, legal and government  systems .  Many of these 
issues have been addres sed in other more progressive nations effectively but Pakistan requires indigenous  
solutions.  LUMS has both the intellectual and social capital as well as a responsibility to address many  of these  
issues . Pakistan ’s issues, when seen as opportunities  can lead to discovery of life-changing solutions .   
By focus sing on interdisciplinarity we take our academic expertise to another level to foster increased research 
excellence, innovation, and creativity in and across all disciplines.  Our scholarly activities will transcend 
boundaries, whether disciplinary, geographical, political, sectoral,  or cultural  if we choose to collaborate on 
effective educational initiatives that can rapidly multiply into positive societal impact.   
Collaborative initiatives that positively affect local and national communities will require new research 
partnerships with a variety of community and industry partners.  A clear knowledge mobilization strategy will 
help to ensure that this work has impact and recognition, including opportunities for translating research 
outputs into tangible outcomes  that yield both policy and practice -based changes that benefit our communities, 
our country, and the region.   
We must also recognize that local solutions to Pakistan’s challenges will rely on the abilities, capacities, and 
knowledge of our current genera tion of students. Engaging students in such efforts through our teaching , 
research , and novel educational programs  has many benefits including raising awareness about societal issues 
and effective local solutions. It also sends strong messages about unders tanding, tolerance, and empathy for 
each other and for the environment around us.  These are the values that we stand for  and must lead by , that 
Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 5 others will continue to emulat e.  So, an investment in  strengthening values , is an investment in Pakistan’s 
future.  
Impact o n the Region  
Recognized by the Times Higher Education as the 40th Best Small University in Asia in 2021, LUMS continues to 
be one of the fastest growing post -secondary institutions in Pakistan . Moving into the future, we have the ability 
and creativity to provide regional leadership across sectors and social spheres to develop the knowledge, 
innovations, and solutions that are needed to make a positive impact in the region.   
Building on a robust research excellence framework  inclusive of  multi disciplinary work  to address society’s 
grand challenges, LUMS will need to diffuse innovations  that position it as an institution committed to regional 
development . For example,  we are envision ing that by 2032, new certificate, diploma, and degree programs 
from all schools  will target students from our neighbouring countries and across the region . Already,  an Asian 
EMBA will be launched  by SDSB  in 2023 attract ing international students from the UAE, Columbo, and Manila.  
Intern ationalization efforts are also a natural extension to provide increased access and richer diversity in our 
student body  and increases our regional impact.  Internationalization also opens new possibilities to recruit 
faculty from other countries  who may not otherwise opt to live here. By offering  unique alterative such 
opportunities for shorter visits to carry out critical research,  teach  seminars and  offer  online  course s, we could 
increase our collaboration s and collective expertise  regionally and g lobally.  
This will require a sustained effort and strategy that builds our regional and international r eputation for 
research and teaching excellence and promotes LUMS as the premier destination in the region.  To become the 
leading university in the region requires an international student community.  Expanding new models of 
international partnerships, a focus on student mobility (in and out of Pakistan), recruitment and elevating our 
international profile will be central to this strategy.  
Institutional Prio rities   
Returning to the central theme of identifying institutional priorities , we reiterate the importance of our core 
work and activities that have led LUMS to become a leading research -intensive university that excels in teaching 
by continuously reimagining and integrating its curriculum.  Each department, program, centre, and institute 
must continue its efforts for stronger governance,  new interdisciplinary programs , internationalization,  and a 
revitaliz ation of the student experience . 
 
Each School has committed to articulate how our collective  institutional priorities will be  infused in their  core 
work of research, teaching, and service. While this paper does not present an implementation plan to enact 
priorities or a checklist of next steps, it helps to prepare us at the system level  to achieve meaningful 
institutional outcomes . As we calibrate these priorities by monitoring the types of outcomes they will generate, 
as a learning organization, it is likely that differe nt weights  will be assigned each priority  over time .  
 
The following priorities form foundational elements of a strategic plan that aims to elevate our collective efforts 
on the student, societal, and regional impact of LUMS over the next decade.  For each of the  priorities  listed 
below , more conversations are expected to flesh out the related objectives as well as targets and Key 
Performance Indicators ( KPI’s ).  
 
Goal 1 : Optimizing  the mix of graduate and undergraduate programs  
- Objective : Identifying additional graduate interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary,  and regional courses, 
certificates, diplomas,  and degrees . 
- KPI’s : Overall mix of graduate students to increase from 2?% to 30%. Each School to identify new 
offerings that partner with  schools  and across universities within Pakistan and overseas.  
 
Strategic Priorities : Into the Next Decade  
Draft May  2022  
 6 Goal 2 : Complementing in -person with online and hybrid learning  
- Objective : Identifying existing courses  offered online or in hybrid formats as well as new courses that 
can be bundled as certificates, diplomas,  and degrees . 
- KPI’s : A quarter of all course offerings  across LUMS  are in online or hybrid formats. LUMSX is established 
as a hub supporting e ach School as well as various Offices including Continuing Education, Rausing 
Executive Development Centre, National Incubation Centre, and The LUMS Learning Institute to be  at 
the forefront  of online and hybrid programming.  
Goal 3 : Strengthen Centres to promote interdisciplinary innovation and applied solutions  
- Objective : Centres increase multi disciplinary interventions to tackle grand challenges and  expand 
capacities to strengthen industry partnerships . The Office of Research supports funding efforts , 
incentivize s patents and commercialization opportunities . 
- KPI’s : Annual increases in budgetary allocations aligned to specified Centre outcomes. Collective 
fundraising for Centres increases by 15X. 
Goal 4: Achieving a greater degree of internationalization  
- Objective : Office of Internationalization to fortify  ties with ambassadors and  lead regional recruitment 
efforts. Each school targets international experts to strengthen research clusters, and design local 
programs to target foreign students to take niche courses (for eg. in languages and culture) . 
- KPI’s : 10% of facul ty and 15% of students are from overseas.  Increase the mix of exchange programs 
that target at least 25% MOUs which result in more students coming to LUMS.  
Goal 5 : Developing a sustainable model of fundraising and balanced budgeting   
- Objective : Develop dee per relationships with high -net-worth  donors who share LUMS values , amplify 
engagement with Alumni chapters, events and giving. A capital campaign prioritizing campus projects 
including the central building complex, residential buildings and dedicated spac es for classroom and 
offices.  
- KPI’s : Increase endowments by XX; Achieve s ustainable scholarship funding; Revamp the membership 
and terms for the Board of Governors . Schools to identify sustainable revenue streams to support 
additional programming.  
By attending to these priorities, each of the departments, programs, schools, centres,  and offices will continue 
to share their distinctive perspectives and respective strategic plans . While each unit will articulate their own 
priorities, obje ctives & KPIs, they will also be able to highlight how they are working towards institutional 
priorities.  
Collectively, we have the makings of a comprehensive road map outlining a cohesive vision for LUMS in the 
coming decade.  Consequently, a detailed impl ementation plan will evolve through conversations in the School 
and University Councils, in our planning and budgeting exercises  and with guidance from our Trustees.  
Offices of the VC, Provost, Deans & Administrative Heads  
