 École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne
 École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne
EPFL 2021–2024 
Strategic Plan 
© Jamani Caillet / EPFL
1
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan TABLE OF CONTENTS
PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 3
1.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 4
2.  OUR VISION 5
3.  BROAD OBJECTIVES 7
3.1. Adapting our education portfolio to meet society’s needs 7
3.2. Promoting the next generation of scientists, engineers and architects 8
3.3. Bolstering our research excellence in key scientific areas 8
3.4. Promoting a culture of open science 9
3.5. Deepening our relationship with the Swiss community 10
3.6. Developing a sustainable campus and dynamic community 11
3.7 . Further enhancing the sustainability and stability of our funding 11
4.  STRATEGIC INITIATIVES 13
4.1. Energy and sustainability 13
4.2. The fundamental sciences 15
4.3. Health Science and Technology 17
4.4. Imaging 18
4.5. Privacy and intelligent systems 20
4.6. Neurotechnology 22
4.7 . Doctoral School 2.0 24
4.8. Positive campus culture 25
4.9. Equal opportunity 27
5.  DIGITALIZATION 29
5.1. Digital skills 29
5.2. Digital trust 32
6.  SUSTAINABILITY 33
7 .  STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS  OF THE ETH DOMAIN 35
7 .1.  Swiss Data Science Center 35
7 .2.  Personalized health and related technology 36
7 .3.  Advanced manufacturing 37
7 .4.  Energy 37
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne8.  RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURES 39
8.1. Catalysis Process Discovery Hub  39
8.2. Blue Brain Project 40
8.3. Swiss Plasma Center 41
9.  SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES 43
9.1.  ENAC - School of Architecture, Civil and Environmental Engineering 43
9.2.  IC - School of Computer and Communication Sciences 48
9.3.  FSB - School of Basic Sciences 52
9.4.  STI - School of Engineering 55
9.5.  SV - School of Life Sciences 59
9.6.  CDH - College of Humanities 63
9.7 .  CDM - College of Management of Technology 65
9.8. EPFL Middle East 67
3
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE
Martin Vetterli, 
EPFL President
I’m delighted to present you with our EPFL 
2021–2024 Strategic Plan. This document 
outlines a set of ambitious priorities that 
will guide us over the next four years as we 
strive to achieve our vision and serve all 
sectors of our society.
This strategy lays out a number of broad 
objectives and initiatives that cut across 
boundaries and will transform EPFL. Our 
goals are threefold: to offer robust academic 
programs that are strategically important 
for EPFL, to promote excellence within 
these programs and to forge stronger ties 
among our schools and colleges. 
The strategy was developed through a 
fully collaborative approach involving more 
than a hundred members of the EPFL 
community. We initiated the process over 
a year ago, in autumn 2018, when the 
EPFL leadership team – comprising EPFL’s 
management and deans – held a series 
of planning sessions to pinpoint strategic 
initiatives that could enhance excellence 
within our School’s core disciplines. The 
outcome of those sessions was presented 
for feedback at a meeting between EPFL’s 
management and faculty in December 
2018 and alongside my New Year’s address 
to the EPFL community in January 2019.
Earlier this year, we set up nine working 
groups made up of EPFL stakeholders 
across all disciplines and levels to 
identify action items for implementing our 
initiatives. The working groups presented 
their ideas at the Journées Scientifiques 
et Pédagogiques in October 2019. The 
feedback gathered during this event has 
been incorporated into the nine strategic initiatives you will find in Section 3 of this 
document. These initiatives are part of our 
broader strategy discussed in the other 
sections, which cover topics ranging from 
digitalization, sustainability and research 
facilities to the strategic focus areas of the 
ETH Board and the strategies of our various 
schools and colleges.
I would like to thank all those who helped 
us prepare this important document for 
their hard work and dedication. The lively 
discussions we had with our various 
stakeholders were enlightening, and I look 
forward to our continued collaboration. I 
have no doubt that with the support of our 
talented faculty, staff and students, our 
vision for EPFL will become a reality – with 
achievements that we can all be proud of.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne1.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Last year EPFL celebrated its 50th 
anniversary. This was an occasion for us 
to not only take stock of how far we have 
come, but also outline a clear vision for the 
path ahead. Under our 2021–2024 strategy, 
we intend to anchor EPFL as a driving force 
for education and innovation in Switzerland 
and as a major contributor to leading-edge 
research internationally. We will leverage the 
skills and intellectual curiosity of our faculty, 
staff and students to develop technology that 
delivers tangible benefits to society. And we 
will continue to work closely with business and 
industry in order to foster entrepreneurship, 
support the economy, and transfer our 
knowledge across our community.
For the 2021–2024 period, we have 
identified seven broad objectives essential 
to the success of our School: adapting our 
educational programs to meet society’s 
needs; promoting the next generation of 
scientists and engineers; bolstering our 
research excellence in key scientific areas; 
promoting a culture of open science; 
deepening our relationship with the Swiss 
community; developing a sustainable 
campus and dynamic community; and 
further enhancing the sustainability and 
stability of our funding.
We have also identified six academic and 
three institutional strategic initiatives that span 
our various schools and disciplines and that 
will enhance our impact over the coming years. 
The six academic initiatives relate to energy 
and sustainability, the fundamental sciences, 
health science and technology, imaging, 
intelligent systems and neurotechnology. 
Our goal is to expand EPFL’s research and 
teaching capabilities in these areas, create 
synergies through joint research and shared 
platforms, and strengthen our partnerships 
with businesses, other universities and 
university hospitals. The three institutional initiatives relate to our PhD programs, campus 
culture and equal opportunity efforts, and will 
directly benefit the EPFL community. These 
strategic initiatives will be supported and 
complemented by the strategies of our five 
schools and three colleges.
Digitalization and sustainability will remain 
important focus areas under our 2021–2024 
strategy. We will strengthen our leadership 
role in digitalization and help drive the digital 
transformation on several fronts, not just 
at EPFL but also at primary and secondary 
schools, high schools, vocational schools, 
continuing education programs, Swiss 
government agencies and local businesses. 
As regards sustainability, we aim to position 
EPFL as a benchmark university in integrated 
sustainability by embedding this topic into 
all aspects of our School – governance, 
education, research, innovation, our 
community and our operations. To this end, 
we will develop an EPFL-wide action plan with 
specific targets in all the areas mentioned 
above, along with deadlines for reaching 
those targets.
Last but not least, we will continue to 
play an important role in supporting the 
implementation of the ETH Domain’s priority 
initiatives. We will work with ETH Zurich to 
further expand the scope of the Swiss Data 
Science Center, and our researchers will spur 
further advancements in each of the three 
other Strategic Focus Areas – Personalized 
healthcare & related technology, Advanced 
manufacturing and Energy – by providing 
their skills and know-how in education, 
research and innovation. In addition, we 
will leverage the expertise of the EPFL 
community to develop and operate our 
leading-edge research facilities, such as the 
Catalysis Hub (together with ETH Zurich), the 
Blue Brain Project platform and the Swiss 
Plasma Center.
5
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 
2. OUR VISION 
Science, technology and innovation are key drivers 
of change in today’s society. EPFL, as a public 
university, will play a crucial role by:
•  educating the next generation of responsible 
leaders
• contributing to the advancement of knowledge 
in critical areas
• effectively transferring knowledge to the 
society and the economy.Studying for 
exams in the 
Rolex Learning 
Center library
© Olivier 
Christinat / EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne
© Olivier Christinat / EPFL
7
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 3.  BROAD OBJECTIVES
To achieve our vision by 2024, we will focus on seven broad objectives over the next four 
years.
3.1.  ADAPTING OUR EDUCATION PORTFOLIO TO MEET SOCIETY’S 
NEEDS
At the Bachelor’s level, we will continue to provide a polytechnic education and 
instill the fundamentals of engineering. At the Master’s level, this will be coupled 
with the skills required for a variety of careers in line with our society’s needs. We will 
also further our efforts to encourage women to embark on careers in science and 
engineering and expand the Extension School offers.
Building on our achievements over the 
previous period (2017–2020), we will use 
an evidence-based approach to continue 
enhancing the scientific, engineering and 
architectural education we provide, and 
anchoring basic knowledge while preparing 
future graduates to face the challenges 
ahead in terms of lifelong learning and 
responding to societal issues.
Our Bachelor’s curriculum will focus 
on giving students a solid polytechnic 
foundation that establishes a basis for 
continuous learning. Cross-disciplinary 
projects and courses on societal issues 
will be strengthened in order to equip 
students with ethical, management and 
teamwork skills. At the Master’s level, we 
will emphasize hands-on projects and in-
company internships to give students the 
practical skills and fundamental knowledge 
needed for the job market.
Studies at EPFL can be challenging, 
especially in polytechnic subjects. For 
students who require help in these subjects, 
we will reopen the Cours de mathématiques 
spéciales (CMS) to students with a Swiss 
high-school diploma, better preparing 
them for Bachelor’s studies at EPFL.
For scientists, engineers and architects 
who want to further develop their skills after 
obtaining a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree, we offer a range of continuing education 
programs, mainly through our Extension 
School. For instance, the Extension School 
runs Certificate of Open Studies (COS) 
programs that are open to participants of 
all backgrounds with no previous degree 
required (a first for an EPFL-certified 
program). The EPFL Extension School will 
continue to develop its curriculum offering 
to reflect in-demand, applied subjects, and 
to expand its individual training offers and 
enterprise training partnerships in order to 
reach a wide audience in Switzerland and 
beyond.
Under this new strategy, we will continue our 
efforts to encourage the young generation 
to embark on careers in science and 
engineering. Their skills and contribution 
will be essential for future research as well 
as for our economy and society as a whole. 
Our Education and Science Outreach 
Department will reinforce its efforts to get 
secondary-school students (and especially 
girls) interested in scientific and engineering 
fields, showing them the key role that 
scientists, engineers and architects can 
play in responding to global societal 
challenges. We started offering a series of 
Global Issues courses a few years ago that 
addresses these topics in particular. We are 
also working to incorporate these topics into 
all our degree programs, such as through 
semester or Master’s research projects.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne3.2. PROMOTING THE NEXT GENERATION OF SCIENTISTS, 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS
We will further promote the careers of young scientists, engineers and architects via 
doctoral programs and the tenure-track system.  
The training and promotion of young 
academics is one of the core responsibilities 
of universities. EPFL’s Doctoral School and 
our commitment to recruiting professors 
and helping them advance in their careers 
through a tenure-track system are major 
assets in fulfilling this mission.
Our customized doctoral programs are 
essential in attracting the best young 
graduates to EPFL and providing them 
with a skill set that makes them widely 
employable. We will continue to regularly 
review and improve our portfolio of 
doctoral programs and our PhD students’ 
learning environment. Two specific areas 
of focus under our 2021–2024 strategy 
will be improving our conflict mitigation 
procedures and promoting a culture of 
responsible PhD supervision across our 
organization.At the faculty level, we will further strive 
to offer our young, talented professors 
academic independence and the chance 
to take on managerial responsibilities 
that will enhance their long-term career 
prospects as early as possible. To this 
end, we will remain firmly committed to a 
flat hierarchical structure and a tenure-
track system, which have become key 
elements of our organizational culture. 
To support young professors in their new 
responsibilities, we will offer them regular 
management training courses.
Finally, we believe that effective mentoring 
is of great importance to our young 
academics’ success and advancement. 
As a result, we will reinforce our mentoring 
system for PhD students and for tenure-
track assistant professors under our 2021–
2024 strategy.
3.3. BOLSTERING OUR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE IN KEY 
SCIENTIFIC AREAS
We will strengthen EPFL’s research excellence by promoting cross-disciplinary 
approaches that go beyond the traditional boundaries of disciplines. The range of 
disciplines we cover will remain broad, yet we will continually adapt this range to new 
developments in science and technology. 
One key to EPFL’s research success is 
our ability to explore fields of knowledge 
that exist at the crossroads of various 
traditional disciplines, such as between 
the life sciences and engineering or 
between materials science, chemistry and 
physics. These interactions are largely 
born of initiatives at the institutional level. 
Under our new four-year strategy, we will 
launch several other such initiatives in 
the areas of imaging, intelligent systems, 
neurotechnology and sustainability.At the same time, we will further strengthen 
our core fields such as chemistry, 
mathematics, physics, or computer 
science. Our strengths in each of these 
fields are of paramount importance for two 
reasons. First, this is where the excellence 
of universities is often measured on an 
international scale. Second, each of these 
fields is responsible for one of the core 
programs offered by EPFL and the basis 
upon which young professors build their 
reputation. 
9
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan We will also continue to enhance 
collaboration in targeted areas within 
EPFL, within the ETH Domain and with 
other institutions – not only in the Lake 
Geneva region but also nationally and 
internationally.
3.4. PROMOTING A CULTURE OF OPEN SCIENCE
We will remain a leader in the promotion of open and reproducible research, 
supporting the bottom-up adoption of best practices as well as the top-down 
development of research equipment and services.
The World Wide Web and digital technology 
are fundamentally changing how scientific 
knowledge is being produced and 
disseminated. Open science initiatives 
leverage this opportunity to make the 
research endeavor more transparent, 
reproducible, collaborative and inclusive – 
thereby further increasing its impact.
At EPFL, we are aware of the cultural 
change and leadership required to make 
open, reproducible research the norm. 
We stress our researchers’ responsibility 
for excellence in managing research and 
disseminating results. We are committed 
to making open science a core tenet of 
our culture and to giving the students and 
researchers who join our organization the 
appropriate information and skills. Our 
priorities in this area include adopting best 
practices and providing the necessary 
support, tools and training opportunities 
through our library, our IT systems (including 
our high-performance computing facilities) 
and the other entities on our campuses. Global research communities are best-
placed to foster cross-disciplinary 
practices and standards. To support them, 
we are further expanding our facilities 
and services to facilitate the adoption 
of accepted practices for open science 
and to reinforce our role as a global hub 
for experimenting with new ones. We 
will address at an institutional level any 
contradictions between the benefits of 
open science and the criteria (perceived 
or real) used in research evaluation and 
career promotion.
We believe that researchers – not the 
facilities or service providers they use – 
must shape the future of open science. 
Our campus provides a forum where peers 
can discuss the different ways they view 
open science, and this dialogue will inform 
the strategic decisions we make and the 
services provided by our administrative 
and research staff.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne3.5. DEEPENING OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SWISS 
COMMUNITY
Through our scientific and technological capabilities, we will remain a key player in 
Swiss society, supporting its well-being, economy and security and helping deliver 
solutions to global issues.
We will continue EPFL’s long tradition of 
carrying out joint research and innovation 
projects with industry and society and of 
supporting the entrepreneurial activities of 
our students and researchers. In promoting 
technology transfer and the uptake of the 
School’s scientific discoveries by the public 
and private sectors, we are meeting our 
responsibility to make our research findings 
available to society, thereby ensuring our 
country’s continued prosperity.
Under our 2021–2024 strategy, we will keep 
building strong national and international 
bridges with industry through bespoke 
partnerships with corporations and small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 
as well as through our various cross-
disciplinary R&D centers. Our satellite 
campuses in Neuchâtel, Geneva, Valais 
and Fribourg will play an important role 
in this objective. These campuses are 
closely linked to our teaching, research and 
innovation initiatives and have given rise to 
several R&D partnerships and synergies 
with other Swiss universities (such as the 
universities of applied sciences), cantons 
and local businesses. 
We also intend to further expand the scope 
of our activities at EPFL Innovation Park, 
with a particular emphasis on diversity. 
Our Innovation Park has been highly 
successful and currently comprises 25 
large companies and 120 startups. Now our 
aims are to further strengthen ties between Innovation Park and our satellite campuses 
in western Switzerland and to advance 
collaboration within Switzerland Innovation 
Park Network West.
We will also pursue our ambitious strategy 
of establishing Lausanne as the center of 
a world-class startup ecosystem. If we are 
successful, the economic, technological 
and societal impact will be felt in Switzerland 
and beyond. We will keep promoting new 
startup initiatives designed to encourage 
innovation and facilitate technology transfer 
from our labs to society as a whole. So far, 
our School has spun off 293 startups – 
some of which have developed technology 
we use on a daily basis. 
Furthermore, in line with our overall strategy 
to use our scientific and technological 
capabilities to address the major 
challenges of our time, our Enterprise for 
Society Center (E4S) and Tech4Impact 
initiative will seek to strategically expand 
our School’s sustainability activities. 
By virtue of our location, EPFL is in a 
unique position to establish an open, 
inspiring platform that brings together a 
wide range of stakeholders – including 
students, researchers, NGOs, international 
organizations, politicians, corporations, 
entrepreneurs and the general public 
– to work together on innovative and 
entrepreneurial solutions with a scalable 
impact.
11
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 3.6. DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE CAMPUS AND DYNAMIC 
COMMUNITY
We will further expand our efforts to create a sustainable campus and an open, 
vibrant, and attractive community spread over several closely linked sites, each one 
rooted in its own ecosystem.
Part of EPFL’s appeal is our dynamic 
campus and diverse community. We will 
continue to offer a stimulating working 
and learning environment, highlighting 
individual and collective contributions. We 
will invest in skills development through 
education and mentoring and continue to 
offer attractive employment conditions. We 
will strengthen our School’s governance 
in accordance with our quality objectives 
and streamline our organizational structure 
where appropriate, while tapping into the 
constructive energy of the entire EPFL 
community.
We will further improve our campus 
infrastructure by renovating existing 
facilities and building new ones – like the 
Advanced Science Building, Discovery Learning Labs (DLL) and other collaborative 
working spaces – in order to keep pace 
with growing needs and technological 
advancements.
At EPFL, we are also deeply concerned by 
the climate crisis and are firmly committed 
to developing an impactful sustainability 
program. We want our School to serve as 
a model both in Switzerland and abroad 
in the field of integrated sustainability, 
encompassing our entire community, our 
missions and our organizational structure. 
As a true Sustainable Living Laboratory for 
our own research and innovation activities, 
we will quickly adopt the social and 
technological innovations necessary for 
our campus to support the environmental 
transition in an exemplary manner.
3.7 . FURTHER ENHANCING THE SUSTAINABILITY AND STABILITY 
OF OUR FUNDING
We intend to reach critical size through controlled growth and sustainable finances.
After growing rapidly over the past 15 
years and expanding our considerable 
international reach, we are now pursuing a 
strategy of reconciling growth, excellence 
and stable finances. As we seek a share of 
federal funding that is better aligned with 
our size and achievements, we will also 
continue our efforts to develop a variety of 
third-party funding sources for some of our 
chairs and strategic priorities. Maintaining 
and modernizing our research facilities will 
require major investments under our next 
two four-year strategies.Cantonal partnerships, especially through 
our satellite campuses, represent key 
funding opportunities that we will pursue 
in the coming years. Another of our 
objectives is to step up our fundraising 
efforts, in part by continuing to engage 
our alumni network, in order to diversify 
our financial base. By strengthening our 
financial-planning, cash-management and 
budget-oversight processes, we will further 
enhance the sustainability and stability of 
our funding.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne
© Olivier Christinat / EPFL
13
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 4.  STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
To enhance our impact over the coming years, we will focus on the following nine academic 
and institutional strategic initiatives. 
4.1. ENERGY AND SUSTAINABILITY
For Switzerland to be able to reach its 2050 energy strategy targets, scientists and 
engineers need to take a cross-disciplinary approach to developing new socio-
ecological-technical systems (SETS). This will be one of the main goals of our strategy 
for the next four years, with targeted measures to position EPFL as a leading skills 
center for research and education on energy and sustainability. Our efforts are 
cross-cutting and innovative, and take into account not only energy systems and 
technology, but also infrastructure, businesses, governance, societal needs and 
acceptance. 
Clean, affordable energy will be a key driver 
for a sustainable future and affect other UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
such as: reducing inequality in general 
– and gender inequality in particular – in 
developing countries, improving citizens’ 
health and well-being, promoting economic 
growth, building sustainable cities and 
communities and acting as responsible 
consumers and producers. As far as global 
warming is concerned, the most important 
step our society can take is to effect an 
energy transition. Major efforts are needed 
to switch our fossil-fuel-based economies 
to 100% renewable energy on a worldwide 
scale, across nations and industries, to 
prevent the global average temperature 
from rising more than 1.5°C.
Technological progress and innovation 
alone will not be enough for Switzerland to 
reach its 2050 energy strategy targets or its 
CO2 reduction targets. We need to take a 
cross-disciplinary approach to developing 
socio-ecological-technical systems (SETS) 
if we want to address the deeply interlinked 
issues of energy, climate change and 
sustainability. Robust, cross-disciplinary 
research will be key to finding impactful energy and sustainability solutions. This 
research should be cross-cutting and 
innovative and take into account not only 
energy systems and technology, but also 
infrastructure, businesses, governance, 
societal needs and acceptance.
To meet these new challenges, three 
types of opportunities lie before us: 
technological, SETS-driven and educational. 
The technological opportunities relate to (i) 
energy efficiency and materials usage (e.g., 
chemical processes, a circular economy, 
building technology and urban mining); (ii) 
energy harvesting, conversion, and use (e.g., 
waste-to-energy conversion via catalysis, 
solar energy conversion, and solar fuels); 
(iii) energy storage (e.g., liquid hydrogen 
batteries); (iv) carbon sequestration and 
valorization; and (v) integrating renewable 
energy into power grids through AI, IoT 
and/or blockchain technology. The SETS-
driven opportunities relate to (i) behavioral 
change among producers and consumers; 
(ii) human-centered approaches and 
incentives to shaping individual choices, 
which are linked to large-scale automation 
processes; (iii) new methods for improving 
the acceptability and adoption of renewable 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneenergy; and (iv) governance mechanisms 
for modular and decentralized “off-the-grid” 
energy systems, which are linked to power 
infrastructure and energy security. Additional 
opportunities can be found in the marketing 
and dissemination of new technology.
The educational opportunities relate to (i) 
incorporating sustainability into degree 
programs across all disciplines, so as to 
develop this core skill in future leaders; (ii) 
developing innovative, cross-disciplinary 
teaching methods that combine 
engineering and the social sciences and 
encourage critical thinking about global 
sustainability challenges; and (iii) improving 
students’ ability to leverage technological 
innovation by fostering student-led 
cross-disciplinary projects, with the 
goals of making EPFL the world’s most 
energy-efficient university campus and of 
producing zero waste.
Energy and sustainability are cross-
disciplinary research topics at EPFL. Over 
190 of our labs are performing research 
that addresses more than one SDG, 
and energy is a central research topic 
for about 25% of our research groups. 
Our main areas of expertise include 
renewable energy, energy conversion and 
storage, energy efficiency, smart grids, 
catalysis, sustainable mobility, housing, 
and the energy transition. Moreover, our 
School supports research and technology 
implementation (through initiatives such 
as Tech4Impact, EPFL Sustainability and 
EssentialTech).
Regarding our degree programs, we have 
introduced a new Master’s program in 
Energy Science & Technology, which 
provides an excellent avenue for teaching 
tomorrow’s energy engineers. However, 
our current range of sustainability-oriented 
courses is not enough to meet the growing 
demand for sustainability education. We 
need to roll out course modules of various 
formats for both students and teachers so that we can offer courses specifically 
on sustainability and incorporate core 
sustainability concepts into curricula at all 
our schools.
To further position EPFL as a leading 
skills center for integrated research and 
education on energy and sustainability, 
we will (i) improve coordination, visibility 
and outreach, and leverage our research 
capabilities and ongoing achievements, 
(ii) forge closer ties among our research 
institutes and colleges and among the 
social sciences and engineering, (iii) 
improve our skills in experimental social 
science and crowd sourcing and (iv) 
strengthen the ties between energy and 
other sustainability fields. To that end, some 
of the measures we have planned include:
•  using our main campus and satellite 
campuses as “living labs” to develop 
and implement sustainability-oriented 
initiatives in education, research, 
innovation and the energy transition.
• creating a long-term energy and 
sustainability platform where EPFL 
scientists and engineers can share 
research facilities, models and data, 
leverage existing competencies, 
bolster their competitiveness and 
respond to calls for proposals more 
quickly.
•  establishing cross-cutting research 
hubs on specific topics to encourage 
cross-disciplinary research projects, 
and introducing seminar series on 
societal problems related to energy 
and sustainability (e.g., decentralized 
power grids, the circular economy and 
carbon-neutral manufacturing).
•  improving our School’s visibility, 
outreach and collaboration through 
practice; this will enable us to leverage 
the knowledge developed in our 
research hubs, work more closely 
15
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan with (and obtain funding from) key 
businesses, support the marketing of 
new technology (such as for the circular 
economy) and promote the application 
of research insights (such as through 
startups).
•  further orienting education at EPFL 
towards sustainability by incorporating this topic into new and existing courses, 
developing modules for lecturers and 
encouraging project-based learning 
through “living labs” (see above). We 
will also develop tailored sustainability 
modules for EPFL faculty, enabling 
lecturers to include sustainability 
concepts in their curricula.
4.2.  THE FUNDAMENTAL SCIENCES
Any leading university that wants to have a lasting impact on science and innovation 
must cultivate substantial strengths in mathematics, physics and chemistry. The 
fundamental sciences were strengthened at EPFL 20 years ago, when they were 
transferred from UNIL, and we now plan to further increase and strengthen our 
activities in these areas. We will facilitate collaboration and knowledge advancement 
in these overarching research topics by supporting long-term programs that bring 
together several EPFL schools and by building the infrastructure that a cutting-edge 
university needs to conduct experimental research in the 21st century. 
Any leading university today must have core 
strengths in the fundamental sciences. But 
if you try to pinpoint exactly what makes a 
science “fundamental”, you quickly end up 
with diverging viewpoints. For some, the 
fundamental sciences are characterized 
by curiosity-driven research that is fueled 
by scientists’ imagination and creativity. 
But it is also true that much groundbreaking 
research in the fundamental sciences is 
inspired by a desire to develop important 
applications, to better understand the 
world around us, or to find answers to the 
challenges of modern society.
Research in the fundamental sciences 
often shows its value on a much longer 
time scale than that for the applied 
sciences and engineering. Therefore, 
to advance the fundamental sciences 
at EPFL, we should focus not on current 
topics or trends, but rather on priorities and 
initiatives that attract the most creative, 
innovative researchers. This includes 
offering conditions and opportunities that 
allow them to pursue long-term research efforts across a variety of fields as part of a 
collaborative organizational culture.
Breakthroughs in fundamental sciences 
often occur at the crossroads of two or 
more traditional fields or by combining 
traditionally disparate methods within the 
same field. Therefore, we must prioritize 
the hiring of individuals who adhere to such 
a collaborative, dynamic approach, and we 
should facilitate their efforts by creating 
an environment that provides the right 
intellectual support and research facilities.
EPFL is well-placed to do this in many 
ways, as we have numerous local hubs of 
outstanding research in the fundamental 
sciences across all our schools. To better 
seize these opportunities and leverage the 
resulting synergies, we have a number of 
initiatives planned to expand our intellectual 
capacity by promoting new modes of 
collaboration and enhancing the quality of 
our facilities, making them ideally suited for 
performing cutting-edge research in the 
fundamental sciences.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneIntellectual capacity: We have identified 
several overarching research topics that are 
anchored in the fundamental sciences and 
have the potential to catalyze collaborative, 
interdisciplinary research projects. These 
topics include: Theoretical Sciences, 
Fundamentals of Complex Systems, 
Theoretical Foundations of AI, Quantum 
Science and Engineering, and Global 
Change. They span the research areas of 
at least two EPFL schools, with substantial 
existing but often disconnected research 
activities, and can bring clearly identifiable 
benefits to enhance collaboration across 
EPFL.
We plan to facilitate collaboration and 
knowledge advancement in some of 
these topics by supporting long-term, 
interdisciplinary research programs 
that involve several EPFL schools. Such 
programs will be anchored in the schools’ 
fields of research and will aim to create 
forums and academic incentives for EPFL 
researchers to engage in activities in 
one or more of these topics. We will invite 
internationally renowned scholars to EPFL to 
take part in the programs and spend time at 
EPFL as visiting resident scientists, so they 
can actively participate in and enhance the 
programs’ activities. This approach will seek 
to balance the benefits of short-term visiting 
scholar programs with those of permanent 
positions at research institutions. In addition, 
because these programs will be long term 
in nature, they will be well-aligned with the timeline inherent to fundamental science. 
We will review the programs periodically 
so as to ensure dynamic, timely research 
opportunities.
Research facilities
While these proposed long-term research 
programs should expand our activities 
across the fundamental sciences and 
spur new collaborative initiatives, they 
must be accompanied by investments 
in the requisite equipment and facilities, 
including:
• An advanced sciences building: To 
enable research in a number of fields 
critical to EPFL’s continued growth and 
excellence in the fundamental sciences, 
we need a new building dedicated to 
advanced experimental research. This 
building should meet the specifications 
for high-quality research facilities.
• Laboratories for conducting research 
under the new collaborative programs 
in fundamental sciences: For the new 
research programs to be successful, 
scientists from several schools will 
need suitably designed meeting 
rooms and laboratories where they can 
conduct joint experiments. International 
experience confirms that this is an 
essential component of successful 
collaborative research involving several 
disciplines.
17
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 4.3. HEALTH SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The increasingly technical nature of evidence-based and precision medicine is 
creating an opportunity for well-trained scientists, engineers and digital specialists 
to work with doctors to develop technology that improves patients’ lives. At EPFL, 
we intend to train the next generation of cross-disciplinary healthcare scientists and 
engineers and build additional bridges with medical degree programs. Through our 
state-of-the-art research programs and research centers, we will bring together the 
different areas of expertise at our School and leverage the synergies among them. 
Healthcare has become increasingly 
specialized with the introduction of 
evidence-based medicine, which is now 
evolving into precision medicine. This 
change is being driven by scientific, 
technological and digital breakthroughs. 
New “-omics” technology (such as 
genomics, proteomics and metabolomics), 
as well as advancements in multimodal 
imaging, robotics, digital health and 
artificial intelligence, has left many 
doctors ill-prepared to embrace the 
latest medical solutions. As a result, 
specialized engineers, scientists, public-
health workers and IT specialists have 
become the experts in these fields, and 
they often assist doctors. However, even 
these experts find it hard to keep up with 
the rapid pace of technological change. 
Furthermore, the healthcare industry will 
soon have to cope with major societal 
trends in the areas of demographics, 
sustainability, inequality, environmental 
change and digitalization. Doctors and 
scientists alike should therefore become 
more familiar not only with the technological 
aspects of healthcare, but also with new 
developments that have an impact on 
these societal issues.
This is where EPFL can make a major 
contribution by educating the next 
generation of physician-scientists and 
healthcare technology experts. This will 
entail, first, bringing together competent 
scientists and engineers from across 
the School to work on healthcare-related 
research; and second, creating a research 
center for healthcare science and technology, a platform where scientists, 
engineers, IT specialists, AI specialists, 
healthcare economists and clinicians can 
perform joint R&D.
EPFL’s current approach to healthcare 
science and technology is not fully 
coherent. The School of Life Sciences 
does not cover all aspects of this field; it 
has only four healthcare-related institutes, 
which are focused on cancer research 
(ISREC), infectious diseases (GHI), the brain 
and mind (BMI) and bioengineering (IBI). 
Other EPFL schools also have excellent 
programs, but they are not sufficiently 
integrated across our organization. 
Many large fields for healthcare research 
remain uncovered: biochemistry, cardio-
metabolism, inflammation, immune 
systems, pharmacology, human genetics, 
medical technology, digital opportunities for 
public health and healthcare economics. 
Building this expertise at EPFL will be 
difficult, but our partnerships with local 
experts can help fill those voids.
All this means there are major opportunities 
to be explored. As mentioned above, 
we initially plan to create a center for 
research in healthcare science, technology 
and economics, where basic scientists 
from our different schools will work with 
clinicians, public-health specialists from 
Lake Geneva-area hospitals and the WHO, 
and biotech and medtech engineers. More 
specifically, the center will:
• leverage EPFL’s broad scientific know-
how, with the support of all our schools
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne• strengthen partnerships with the 
region’s main hospitals such as CHUV, 
HUG and Inselspital
• train the next generation of cross-
disciplinary healthcare scientists and 
engineers
• build additional bridges with medical 
degree programs so that our students 
can seamlessly transition into 
medical programs, giving the next 
generation of physician-scientists the 
necessary knowledge to implement 
new technology for the benefit of their 
patients
• strengthen ties with the biopharma and 
medtech industries• engage with public health officials and 
organizations (like the WHO) and health 
economists.
Ideally, the center will be the first step 
towards opening an institute for healthcare 
science and technology. This institute 
will bring together researchers, state-of-
the-art technology platforms and local 
businesses, and have enough lab space 
for those businesses (which will range 
from big pharma companies to biotech, 
medtech and AI startups) to perform joint 
R&D. Our center will not be intended to 
replace medical schools, but rather to 
supplement their teaching and research 
with technology-oriented programs. These 
programs would not entail launching a full 
medical degree program at EPFL, since we 
can already draw on our partnerships with 
CHUV and HUG. 
4.4.  IMAGING
Imaging plays a central – and expanding – role in science and engineering, all the 
way from the nano to the macro level. We believe that future progress in this field will 
stem largely from joint research and cross-fertilization among various disciplines, 
and that machine intelligence will become increasingly prominent. We therefore 
plan to promote cross-disciplinary imaging research and encourage shared tools, 
facilities and resources. We will also build new research capabilities and facilities for 
the development of increasingly advanced technology and methods.
The role of imaging in science and 
engineering is fundamental and set to grow 
further. It lets researchers view and quantify 
physical processes and see the internal 
3D structures of objects and biological 
samples with unprecedented resolution 
in both space and time. Advanced 
imaging technology usually draws on 
several disciplines since it requires 
careful sample preparation, sophisticated 
instruments (involving physics and 
sensors) and elaborate data processing 
for reconstruction and analysis. The 
payoff in terms of scientific discovery can 
be huge, as demonstrated by the recent Nobel prizes awarded for advancements 
in super-resolution microscopy (2014) and 
cryo-electron tomography (2017 , with a 
major contribution from a Lausanne-based 
scientist). Today the main trends in imaging 
include developing increasingly powerful 
instruments; generating imaging data in 
space (often 3D) and time, which requires 
advanced data storage and analysis 
capabilities; and improving the interaction 
and interdependence between physical 
instruments and computer algorithms. 
This latter trend has given rise to the 
field of computational imaging, where 
software forms an integral part of imaging 
19
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan instruments. Computational imaging is 
being incorporated into most imaging 
methods today (including X-ray, magnetic 
resonance, acoustical imaging and optical 
imaging).
Due to the widespread use of imaging 
and its reliance on many different kinds of 
technology, it harbors great potential for 
new developments across all disciplines. 
The most pressing needs are related 
to incorporating machine learning into 
imaging paradigms, so as to generate 
better reconstructions and make it easier to 
run quantitative analyses; performing faster 
and higher-resolution imaging; producing 
images while taking fewer measurements 
(or using a lower radiation dosage); 
performing adaptive imaging with on-the-
fly data processing; and using imaging data 
for personalized medicine. Another priority 
area is applications-oriented development, 
such as for digital healthcare and vision-
based manufacturing, which can also be 
a vector for technology transfer to Swiss 
businesses.
At EPFL, we have a large, diversified 
population of scientists (biologists, 
physicists and computer scientists) and 
engineers who are involved in imaging 
technology – all the way from the nano 
to the astronomical scale – for a broad 
range of applications (e.g., remote sensing, 
medical imaging, cellular and structural 
biology, computer vision and AR/VR). 
Many of our scientists and engineers 
have made renowned contributions to the 
advancement of imaging methods and 
instrumentation – such as by developing 
better imaging sensors (e.g., CCDs, SPADs 
and PET scanners), next-generation 
microscopes and advanced algorithms 
for reconstruction and analysis – and have 
conducted pioneering work in machine 
learning. Our School is equipped with 
advanced imaging facilities (BIOP , CIME, 
CIBM and PIXE) that support researchers in many fields by providing assistance with 
and access to cutting-edge technology. 
We also offer a range of imaging-related 
courses that include hands-on training (on 
biomicroscopy and image processing, for 
example).
Although our research disciplines 
boast many strengths and have much 
in common, there is still considerable 
scope for improving collaboration and 
cross-fertilization. Imaging technology 
is progressing rapidly, meaning we must 
regularly update our research facilities, 
which can be rather costly. Our imaging 
facilities (except for the CIBM) are purely 
service-oriented, which is not ideal for 
staying at the top of our field and for enabling 
consistent use of the latest technology. 
Imaging hardware alone is not enough to 
obtain reliable quantitative information; 
we also need image-processing and 
data-processing software – two fields that 
often lie outside the areas of expertise of 
the scientists who use our instruments. 
In addition, not everyone has access to 
long term data-storage platforms that are 
compatible with open-science standards. 
And in terms of imaging-related courses at 
EPFL, they tend to be scattered across our 
different schools.
We therefore plan to consolidate our imaging 
activities at EPFL with two complementary 
aims: (i) speed scientific discovery by 
enabling faculty to work together and by 
promoting cross-disciplinary research 
projects, and (ii) upgrade our shared imaging 
infrastructure, including both software and 
data storage platforms, so as to enhance 
our core facilities.
The cornerstone of these efforts will be 
our existing imaging facilities, which will be 
given a greater role in supporting research. 
They will act as hubs for cross-disciplinary 
projects and as vectors for advancing 
imaging research at EPFL.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneSpecific measures we plan to take include:
• hiring world-class faculty members 
specialized in imaging science, whose 
expertise closely matches our existing 
imaging facilities (the goal here will be to 
extend our current activities beyond the 
state of the art)
• getting our faculty more closely involved 
in core facility operations (this will 
include setting up a steering committee 
to oversee operations, introducing 
mechanisms to facilitate the transfer of 
new developments across our facilities 
and building up our network of users)
• upgrading our imaging equipment and 
forging closer ties with the imaging 
industry (through test sites and 
technology transfer)• setting up the Dubochet Center for 
Imaging – a joint initiative with the 
universities of Lausanne and Geneva – 
to house state-of-the-art equipment
• providing additional assistance with 
image analysis and data management 
so as to help researchers using our 
equipment (in particular with large-scale 
data generation, quantification methods 
and open science)
• introducing mechanisms (e.g. seed 
funding and calls for proposals) for 
fostering collaboration and cross-
fertilization
• developing an imaging technology 
curriculum, and supporting joint 
Master’s projects with co-supervisors.
4.5. PRIVACY AND INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS
One transformation driving major research and innovation today is the merging 
of the virtual and physical worlds through the development of autonomous and 
intelligent systems. To help further this transition, EPFL has created a new center 
bringing together researchers working on various aspects of intelligent systems.
A key driver of change today is the fading 
border between the virtual and physical 
worlds, thanks to the development of 
autonomous and intelligent systems such 
as wearable technology, robotic coworkers 
and assistants, smart devices, drones, 
augmented reality, smart infrastructure, 
smart transportation systems and 
many other artificial-intelligence based 
applications. Such systems are having 
a growing impact on the way we live and 
work, and they will likely have far-reaching 
implications for societal issues – including 
employment, education, safety, and privacy 
– as well as ethical and legal ramifications. 
As intelligent systems become increasingly 
widespread, they will give rise to at least 
four challenges:•  They will bring about radical change in 
many areas including manufacturing, 
transportation, retail, employment, 
healthcare, government, legislation, 
security, privacy and education.
•  They will require new design paradigms, 
given that intelligent machines and 
humans must work together to 
accomplish goals and, possibly, share 
the same physical space. Issues 
related to safety, reliability, control, 
explainability, accountability and 
responsiveness will thus become 
paramount.
•  They will give rise to a new layer 
of interconnected and intelligent 
21
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan systems. Scientists and engineers will 
need to address a whole new set of 
challenges in order to design complex 
interconnected systems with a ‘mind’ 
of their own. We are already seeing 
rudimentary elements of that in cyber-
physical systems. However, much 
more will be needed to account for the 
intelligence factor, which will become 
pervasive.
•  Due to their increased level of 
interconnectedness and autonomy, 
intelligent systems will give rise to an 
array of new ethical and legal issues 
that will require careful consideration.
Unlike automated systems, which are 
programmed to perform repetitive tasks 
within well-defined boundaries and control 
procedures, autonomous and intelligent 
systems can learn from experience 
and from humans. They can actively 
search for information, make decisions 
in complicated situations they have 
never encountered before, move out of 
geographically restricted areas, repair and 
sustain themselves and, eventually, work 
with humans and share the same physical 
space. In the future, manufacturing, 
healthcare, environmental monitoring, 
energy and transportation systems, not to 
mention large-scale research facilities, will 
rely heavily on autonomous robots capable 
of operating in complex environments 
alongside humans, responding to changing 
constraints, and working in new frontiers 
(as in space and extreme environment 
exploration).
Building such systems requires drawing on 
competencies from many different fields 
that are sometimes grouped under the term 
AI: data science, machine learning, vision 
and speech technology, audio processing, 
natural language processing, integrative 
intelligent systems, cyberphysical systems, human-AI collaboration and planning. 
Mathematics, statistics and theoretical 
computer science are also critical to the 
foundations of AI, whose underpinnings are 
still shaky.
EPFL is currently a major, but not sufficiently 
visible, player in this field. We recently set up 
a Center for Intelligent Systems that brings 
together researchers working on different 
aspects of “smart” technology. This center 
will undoubtedly help build awareness of 
intelligent-system research on campus, 
leading to greater cross-fertilization among 
scientists and engineers and more fruitful 
collaboration. Under our 2021–2024 
strategy, EPFL’s various schools will work 
together through the center to:
• create additional, targeted faculty 
positions in the emerging discipline 
of applying computational intelligence 
to technological, engineering and 
societal challenges and to building 
human-machine systems. A focus on 
building such systems is essential for 
an engineering school like EPFL and 
will provide a framework for cross-
disciplinary collaboration.
• establish a common, shared platform 
for research.
• develop courses to teach various 
aspects of intelligent systems across 
our degree programs and schools.
• perform outreach activities to make 
our efforts better known elsewhere in 
Europe and beyond.
• develop close, productive ties with 
Swiss industry.
• support Switzerland’s digitalization 
initiatives.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne4.6. NEUROTECHNOLOGY
The convergence of neuroscience, engineering, and artificial intelligence is creating 
a unique opportunity to address 21st-century challenges related to the study of the 
brain and the development of advanced therapies so that people can live better, 
healthier lives. 
Our upcoming EPFL-wide initiative called Neuro-X will strengthen our position as 
a leader in all neuro-related fields and create a unique ecosystem for basic and 
translational research, providing a broad, leading-edge education in neurotechnology 
and promoting innovation and technology transfer.
Neurotechnology – one of the most 
dynamic and promising research areas 
of the 21st century – draws on all critical, 
fundamental disciplines of science and 
technology to develop methods for better 
understanding, regulating and repairing 
the human nervous system. Organizations 
around the world, including governments, 
major institutions, research agencies 
and businesses (both medical and non-
medical), have launched research and 
education initiatives in this field.
EPFL has a unique, diversified 
neurotechnology ecosystem involving 
faculty members and state-of-the-art 
research facilities, giving us considerable 
potential for innovation. Neurotechnology 
research at EPFL is focused on two main 
areas that feed into each other: technology-
driven neuroscience and neurotechnology 
for medicine and society. The first uses 
fundamental science and scientific 
discovery to obtain a better understanding 
of the nervous system – from genes and 
molecules to motor and sensory circuits 
and cognition – while the second is 
engineering-driven and develops systems 
for translational research and improved 
health and well-being. Both areas benefit 
from mutual knowledge-sharing.
We currently have over 50 faculty 
members performing neurotech research 
at our schools of life science, engineering, 
computer science and basic science. 
Our expertise ranges from applied mathematics and cognitive neuroscience 
to neurophysiology, gene therapy, robotics, 
biomaterials, machine learning, imaging 
and advanced manufacturing. One of our 
main research goals is to better understand 
the motor and sensorimotor systems so 
that we can design effective therapeutic 
interventions.
We also provide the local scientific 
community with state-of-the-art research 
facilities that cover advanced computing, 
simulation, imaging, animal research, 
manufacturing and characterization. Our 
Campus Biotech is emerging as a catalyst 
for neurotech research at EPFL and the 
broader Lake Geneva region, in applications 
such as simulating the human brain 
(through the BBP), conducting translational 
research (through the CNP) and promoting 
innovation, with the Wyss Center serving 
as a translational accelerator.
EPFL is part of a regional neuroscience 
network (through NeuroLeman) and 
contributes to joint initiatives for carrying 
out translational and clinical research in the 
Swiss Health Valley (through HUG, CHUV 
and Clinique Romande de Réhabilitation-
SUVA). Our international network includes 
organizations and universities such as 
Harvard Medical School, and our faculty 
members play an active role in transferring 
technology to startups and interacting 
with the local medtech and neurotech 
industries.
23
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan To unlock the full potential of our unique 
ecosystem, we will launch an EPFL-wide 
initiative called Neuro-X with the unifying 
goal of using research and education 
to address 21st-century challenges 
related to neuroscience. By improving 
cohesion and collaboration across our 
dynamic, multidisciplinary community, 
Neuro-X will advance our understanding 
of the human brain, harness biological and 
artificial intelligence, drive technological 
breakthroughs, and translate those 
breakthroughs into scalable diagnostic 
and therapeutic systems for people 
with neurological disorders and mental 
illnesses. Proposed measures under the 
initiative include:
• creating an overarching EPFL Neuro-X 
Council. The Council will oversee 
neurotech communication and 
branding for our School, hold joint 
events and develop and coordinate 
large, cross-disciplinary research 
projects. It will also serve as a bridge 
between EPFL, our clinical partners 
and the Wyss Center.
• identifying the main neurotech 
challenges our School can address. 
The Neuro-X Council will promote 
knowledge sharing and communication 
across disciplines and groups to 
identify priority areas of cross-
disciplinary research that build on, and 
expand, EPFL’s strengths. The Neuro-X 
initiative will in particular build on the 
accomplishments of the Blue Brain 
Project to further enhance, by osmosis 
with other theoretical and experimental 
neuroscience approaches, our 
fundamental understanding of the 
healthy and sick brain and design new therapeutic interventions to diagnose, 
prevent and treat neurological and 
mental illnesses. Support funding for 
new professorships and collaborative 
research projects will be needed to 
implement these concrete measures.
• improving cohesion on our campus 
and beyond. Neuro-X will help 
improve communication and research 
partnerships among Campus Biotech, 
EPFL’s main campus, EPFL satellite 
campuses and local organizations. 
The Council will outline a strategy for 
performing translational research, 
including research on non-human 
primates, and set up a framework for 
facilitating joint efforts between our 
faculty and leading clinical scientists, 
physicians and therapists. 
• reviewing the neurotech-related 
courses offered at our School. We 
will perform an in-depth assessment 
of upcoming business and research 
needs in neurocomputation, 
neuroscience, and neuroengineering 
and, based on our findings, develop a 
proposal for an extended educational 
offer in neurotechnology.
• delivering responsible innovations to 
improve neurological care. To that end, 
Neuro-X will implement measures to 
enhance our school’s legal and ethical 
expertise in this field; educate project 
leaders, researchers, and students; 
develop educational tools; and hold 
scientific conferences to address the 
potential technological impact of our 
research and the societal issues that 
could arise.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne4.7 . DOCTORAL SCHOOL 2.0
We have around 2,200 PhD students enrolled in our 21 doctoral programs. While a 
recent survey showed high satisfaction levels among doctoral students, it also 
identified three areas of improvement that will be addressed under our 2021–2024 
strategy: helping PhD students build more effective relationships with their advisors 
and mentors; reducing depression and stress levels among PhD students; and 
providing additional career development skills and prospects for doctoral program 
graduates. 
Our approximately 2,200 PhD students 
are all registered and supervised in our 
21 doctoral programs. Each PhD student 
has an EPFL thesis director, and many 
have a co-director, i.e., someone from the 
academic or non-academic sector who 
holds a PhD. These thesis directors guide 
PhD students academically and help them 
develop and advance their career plans. 
Our doctoral programs offer both scientific 
and technical courses and facilitate PhD 
students’ academic and social integration. 
For instance, our programs include 
mentoring by academic staff members 
and keep tabs on students’ progress 
yearly. Our Doctoral School oversees the 
various programs’ operations, coordinates 
courses on transferable skills, and holds 
social events for the scientific community 
(such as international summer schools).
During the 2018–2019 school year, we 
carried out a comprehensive survey of 
PhD students and obtained more than 
1,000 responses. The survey results were 
favorable compared with several well-
known foreign universities, with EPFL 
students reporting high satisfaction levels. 
However, the survey results also revealed 
that we need to make some improvements. 
Respondents cited gaps, for example, 
in student-advisor relationships, support 
for handling stress and depression, and 
career preparation. What’s more, they said 
that the balance they must strike between 
being employee-subordinates on the one 
hand and student-researchers on the other 
has been shifting too much towards the 
former.In order to remain at the forefront of doctoral 
education and supervision, we will take the 
following targeted measures to address 
these areas of improvement:
•  PhD student-advisor (and mentor) 
relationships:  We will improve the 
onboarding of professors and PhD 
students. Tenure-track professors 
should be given additional support 
and EPFL-specific management 
training (such a program has already 
begun). Our PhD welcome event will 
be reviewed and possibly updated, 
and it will be made compulsory for all 
incoming PhD students. In order to 
effectively manage expectations, we 
will create a guide for PhD students 
and advisors covering the main 
academic and HR-related rules as 
well as guidelines for supervising PhD 
research. It will take the form of a short, 
easily readable online booklet that will 
be regularly updated. Our aim will be to 
strengthen our PhD communities and 
hold more doctoral-program events 
giving PhD students an opportunity to 
meet and talk with program directors, 
thesis advisors and mentors, thereby 
improving supervisory relationships.
• Depression and stress levels 
among PhD students:  The measures 
mentioned above for improving PhD 
student-advisor relationships should 
help in this area as well. However, 
another important measure we 
plan to introduce is mandatory exit 
interviews with all PhD students who 
25
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan leave their program before graduating; 
these interviews will be conducted by 
doctoral program directors. We will 
also further develop and communicate 
procedures and contact points 
for avoiding and handling difficult 
situations between PhD students and 
their advisors. EPFL’s Respect Unit 
will be positioned as the main contact 
point for reporting the more serious and 
problematic situations. PhD students 
will be given more freedom to choose 
courses (scientific, technical and 
transferable) as well as more courses 
to choose from, in order to better align 
their curricula with their research and 
career plans. We will make the core 
values of taking initiative, exploring new 
ideas, critical thinking and independent 
decision-making a part of each PhD 
student’s education. And we will 
start sending out a newsletter every 
two months for all PhD students and 
advisors, with regular highlights such as PolyDoc events, alumni and career 
events, and reminders of certain rules 
and regulations.
•  Career preparation for PhD students: 
PhD students need to be able to make 
better-informed decisions about their 
career goals (and, in fact, our society 
needs more high-level scientists 
to become leaders). We will aim to 
improve our PhD students’ ability to 
communicate to broad audiences, lead 
teams and manage projects. An EPFL 
PhD program should take four years 
to complete (extensions should be 
exceptional). We will start holding an 
annual PhD career event and require 
that PhD students include a section 
on their career plans in their third-
year reports. Another measure we are 
considering is a fund for international 
academic or non-academic exchange 
programs of several months each that 
PhD students could apply for.
4.8.  POSITIVE CAMPUS CULTURE
While we already offer attractive employment opportunities and working conditions 
at EPFL, more can be done to support professional development, employability and 
mobility throughout our organization and across the ETH Domain. Steps we will take 
in this area include providing additional training on leadership and management 
skills, introducing an EPFL-wide HR policy and prioritizing equal opportunity in hiring. 
A critical issue for our School’s continued 
development is being able to attract and 
retain top talent, whether in administrative, 
technical or scientific positions. More 
specifically, we need to foster an 
environment conducive to employees’ 
personal and professional development. 
Most quality employers (in Switzerland and 
internationally) offer appealing professional 
development and career prospects along 
with a commitment to equal opportunity, 
and these factors are becoming 
increasingly important differentiators in the 
job market.The paradigm for leadership and 
management has changed considerably. 
Employees now expect their managers, 
including professors, to provide them 
with a stimulating environment in which 
they can work efficiently and develop 
professionally. Leaders are faced with 
similar expectations, but with the additional 
challenge of navigating their organizations 
through highly complicated, demanding 
environments. This requires leadership 
and management skills commensurate to 
the task.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneAt EPFL, we offer attractive employment 
opportunities and working conditions, 
including a stimulating work environment. 
Whereas the career path for professors is 
clear and well-defined, more can be done 
to support staff members – academic and 
otherwise. By facilitating their professional 
development, we will benefit the entire 
EPFL community. This is even more 
important given that our staff work in a fast-
changing environment requiring flexibility, 
the capacity to embrace change and the 
skills to communicate effectively. Our 
employees must continually acquire new 
competencies, be it to meet new demands, 
take on new responsibilities or maintain 
employability. 
We first identified the need to strengthen 
our management skills in 2017 , and this 
was added to our HR strategy as a priority 
focus area. Our HR department accordingly 
developed a management training program 
specifically for new tenure-track assistant 
professors, which was introduced in 
February 2019 as a mandatory part of their 
new employee orientation program. A first 
cohort of 20 such professors is currently 
completing the program and has given us 
positive feedback regarding its relevance 
and effectiveness. We also ran a pilot 
management course for non-academic 
managers; the course proved successful 
and will now be scaled up to address the 
needs of a larger target group. 
The high retention rates across our 
organization, along with the high degree of 
specialization required in some professions (like for scientists and technicians), mean 
that employee mobility has long been 
a priority at EPFL. Our HR department 
provides in-placement or out-placement 
support to employees when their research 
unit or laboratory closes or restructures, as 
well as training in transferable skills such 
as project management. Yet we can still do 
more to support professional development, 
employability and mobility throughout our 
organization. 
We therefore plan to introduce the following 
key measures to enhance our existing staff 
management efforts:
• develop the next generation of 
leaders, which will entail identifying 
and preparing tomorrow’s academic 
and non-academic leaders through a 
tailored joint program
• give managers the skills they need to 
manage effectively by extending our 
management training courses to all 
professors and managers at our School
• develop a clear EPFL-wide HR policy 
for junior faculty members who have 
been hired on open-ended contracts
• develop a program to identify high-
potential administrative and technical 
staff and support their professional 
development, based on an assessment 
of priority needs (we will also look into 
options for better supporting these staff 
at our various schools and research 
centers).
27
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 4.9. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
We will step up efforts to hire and retain female professors, increase our intake of 
female students, foster an educational and working environment conducive to equal 
opportunity and increase the percentage of women in managerial and leadership 
positions. 
Promoting equal opportunity and instilling 
respect for diversity are core elements 
of our organizational culture and will be 
cornerstones of our 2021–2024 strategy. 
The concrete measures we plan to take in 
this area consist of:
• Stepping up efforts to hire and 
retain female professors.  We plan 
to significantly increase the number 
of female professors we hire, with 
a target of at least 40% of new job 
offers being made to women. This 
will entail proactively searching for 
and engaging with a diverse pool of 
excellent candidates, continuing our 
efforts to reinforce awareness of the 
implicit biases we often hold – and how 
we can mitigate their impact on our 
hiring procedures – and improving the 
accountability and monitoring of our 
results in this area. These measures 
are outlined in our guidelines on equal 
opportunity in faculty hiring and in our 
dual-career policy. We have carried out 
a study of the status of women faculty 
members at EPFL; the findings will help 
us develop additional measures for 
ensuring that EPFL remains capable of 
hiring and retaining top professors and 
supporting them in their tasks. 
• Increasing our intake of female 
students and achieving greater gender 
balance in our degree programs 
(Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD).  This 
is already a core objective of four of our 
units (Science Outreach Department, 
Education Outreach Department, 
Science Promotion Department and 
LEARN center), but under our 2021–2024 strategy, we will mainstream their 
efforts across our organization and work 
with policymakers and other schools 
and stakeholders to outline specific 
actions we can take jointly.
• Fostering an educational and working 
environment conducive to equal 
opportunity .  Efforts made under our 
2021–2024 strategy will focus on:  
 > Promoting respectful, supportive 
conduct and a diverse community: 
we will build upon existing measures 
such as our Respect Unit to 
implement targeted communication 
and awareness-building campaigns 
addressing our entire School. 
The focus will be on early-stage 
prevention and conflict resolution. 
These activities will be carried out by 
dedicated EPFL units in association 
with other EPFL community 
stakeholders. 
 >Enhancing measures to support staff 
and students seeking a better work-
life balance: we already introduced a 
series of measures under our 2017–
2020 strategy to help our staff and 
students achieve a better work-life 
balance; these include expanding 
our campus daycare services, 
providing emergency child care, 
introducing a Stop-the-Clock policy 
for PhD students and postdocs, and 
launching the Robert Gnehm Grant 
for postdocs with young children. 
Under our new strategy, we will further 
these measures, assess them on an 
ongoing basis, and supplement them 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausannewith targeted improvements based 
on the needs of the EPFL community. 
We will place particular emphasis on 
providing adequate information and 
support to students and staff (including 
unit heads and lab directors).  
•  Providing more attractive career 
prospects and professional development 
opportunities. Until now, our efforts for 
promoting career development and 
gender equality have mainly addressed 
PhD students and postdocs. Under our 
2021–2024 strategy, we intend to pursue 
these efforts, continually assessing 
them and supplementing them where 
needed with actions focused on 
promoting equal opportunity. In addition, 
we will introduce measures to enhance 
the career prospects of administrative 
and technical staff, improve the gender 
balance in all professions at EPFL and 
increase the percentage of women in 
managerial and leadership positions.  
Our new policies for promoting equal 
opportunity will build on our existing 
framework, although we will implement 
additional targeted measures that will be 
described in more detail in our 2021–2024 
action plan.

29
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 5. DIGITALIZATION
5.1. DIGITAL SKILLS
The advent of digital technology and its 
implications for society are forcing us 
to consider how we can leverage these 
advancements to improve our way of life. 
As a public university, EPFL has a leading 
role to play in preparing current and 
future generations to navigate the digital 
transition. 
In terms of education, digitalization is 
having three broad impacts:
1. Impact 1:  digitalization is changing 
the content we need to cover in our 
courses, and more specifically the skills we should impart to students, 
such as programming, computational 
thinking and critical thinking (e.g., to 
spot fake news).
2. Impact 2: digitalization is requiring us 
to adopt new teaching methods and 
tools.
3. Impact 3: digitalization is requiring 
us to update how we manage 
educational institutions, especially in 
light of recent advancements in data 
science.
© Catherine 
Leutenegger / 
EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneOur School has emerged as a leader 
in these issues thanks to the specific 
research centers and other resources we 
have set up. We have set the following 
strategic orientations for responding to 
the digital transition, broken down by 
educational level.
At the university level
We have substantially increased the 
number of courses that cover elements of 
computer science (and especially artificial 
intelligence) in recent years. This increase 
was implemented quickly and in a targeted 
manner to meet the needs of students 
and their future employers. To address 
impact 1 above, we need to ensure that 
digitalization concepts are taught in each of 
our degree programs so that our students 
receive appropriate training in this field, 
are well-prepared for their careers, and are 
equipped to adapt to future transformations. 
Our Master’s programs in Data Science, 
Cybersecurity, and Digital Humanities serve 
this purpose particularly well.
In 2013, we opened the Center for Digital 
Education (CEDE), which manages a fund 
for developing digital tools for learning and 
teaching, in order to address impact 2. So 
far these tools have been aimed primarily 
at giving students basic knowledge 
during their first years of study. Going 
forward, the focus will be on creating tools 
specifically for teaching the fundamental 
concepts of science and engineering. The 
CEDE – together with the LEARN center 
opened in 2018 - also provide services for 
encouraging the use of digital resources 
and conducting experiments on a broader 
scale. One example of these digital 
resources is our Learning Companion 
app, which helps students adopt good 
learning habits. Other resources will be 
developed to provide more – and more 
personalized – feedback to students (such 
as through automatic correction and skills 
diagnoses). Finally, to address impact 3, the CEDE 
rolled out the Campus Analytics project 
to help implement and evaluate a data-
based educational system. The goals are 
to assess the latest innovations in teaching 
and create decision-support tools for 
the various stakeholders in educational 
systems. The Center is currently putting 
together an anonymous educational 
dataset that will be made available to 
researchers in order to promote the use of 
machine learning and artificial intelligence 
for educational applications.
At the high-school level
We draw our student base from graduates 
of Swiss high schools. In October 2017 , 
the Swiss government decided to make 
computer science a mandatory subject in 
all the country’s high schools starting in 
2022. At EPFL, we are helping high schools 
implement this decision by working with 
them to draft new curricula (to address 
impact 1), develop new teaching tools 
(impact 2) and train new teachers (impact 
3). In these efforts, we will work jointly with 
other cantons whenever possible.
At the primary- and  
secondary-school level
EPFL has long been involved in educational 
robotics, which includes training teachers 
on how to use robots in the classroom, 
especially in primary and secondary 
schools. The LEARN center helps these 
schools and the educational departments 
of different cantons to incorporate digital 
skills and technology into their official 
curricula. Our approach is based on applying 
the technology developed in research 
labs to improve daily teaching practice. 
The aim is to use experimental research 
findings to enhance modern teaching 
methods (i.e., evidence-based innovation 
in education). LEARN addresses all three of 
the digitalization impacts discussed above. 
For impact 1, the center identifies which 
computer science concepts (especially 
computational thinking) can be taught at 
31
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan an early age (kindergarten) with the help of 
adapted teaching methods. For impact 2, 
LEARN researchers are developing digital 
tools that can provide concrete help to 
teachers. And for impact 3, the center is 
coming up with ways to better manage 
teacher communities and educational 
projects that support the digital transition 
at the institutional level.
At the vocational training level
We are conducting research on educational 
technology that can be used specifically 
for vocational training programs, such as 
augmented reality and social platforms that 
bridge the gap between theory and practice. 
This is being done through numerous 
partnerships with industry associations, 
schools and Swiss government agencies 
(cantonal and federal) that run vocational 
training programs. EPFL has set up a 
collaborative platform on this issue, with 
funding from the Swiss State Secretariat for 
Education, Research and Innovation (SERI). 
Over the next eight years, the platform will 
conduct research on the digital transition 
in education and bring together all 
stakeholders: schools, the Swiss Federal 
Institute for Vocational Education and 
Training (SFIVET), the Swiss Universities 
of Teacher Education (HEP), the Swiss 
Conference of Cantonal Ministers of 
Education (EDK), and industry professionals. 
This collaborative effort will focus on the 
three impacts mentioned above, with 
the aims of (i) identifying the skills now 
expected by companies wishing to adapt 
to the digital era; (ii) collecting experimental 
data on the effectiveness of educational 
technology specific to vocational training; 
and (iii) showing decision-makers how 
data-science methods can help them 
manage their institutions more effectively. 
To translate this research into practice, the 
platform will work closely with the Swiss 
EdTech Collider, which is an innovation hub 
on the EPFL campus involving more than 
80 edtech-industry startups.At the continuing education level
As the modern workplace becomes 
increasingly digital, half of all employees will 
have to update their digital skills at some 
point in the near future. Our EPFL Extension 
School, launched in 2017 , aims to help 
workers adapt to the digital era and seize 
the many opportunities it offers, through 
a variety of courses for participants of all 
ages and educational backgrounds. The 
courses cover not only digital technologies 
but also programming and data science. 
We believe that with the appropriate 
training and support, anyone can speak 
“digital,” “code” and “data” – and the wide 
range of profiles of individuals successfully 
learning with the EPFL Extension School 
strongly confirms this belief.
EPFL Extension School courses are given 
entirely online, and include personalized 
feedback for participants and one-on-one 
video sessions with instructors. Knowledge 
acquisition is assessed through practical, 
applied project work that learners must 
complete and present to teachers by video 
conference. This fully online approach, 
combining individual work with one-on-
one support and concrete outcomes 
demonstrating learner mastery, has 
already enabled our Extension School to 
enhance the digital skills of hundreds of 
professionals across Switzerland.
Going forward, the EPFL Extension School 
will continue to develop its curriculum 
offering to reflect in-demand, applied 
subjects, and to expand its individual 
training offers and enterprise training 
partnerships in order to reach a wide 
audience in Switzerland and beyond.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne5.2.  DIGITAL TRUST
For millennia, humans have been 
developing trust-building mechanisms 
among people, businesses and 
governments for society to function. These 
mechanisms include languages, social 
norms, legislation, diplomacy, authoritative 
bodies and institutions. Today, those trust 
mechanisms need to be transposed into 
the digital world; otherwise, low levels of 
trust – caused perhaps by data breaches 
or malicious usage – could hinder the 
deployment of digital technology. If we 
want modern society to benefit from 
the opportunities being offered by the 
digital transition, we need to create a 
technological, legal and ethical framework 
that provides strong guarantees, can be 
applied universally and reduces the cost of 
earning digital trust.
A crucial factor in achieving these goals 
will be making sure that digital technology 
is rolled out in a safe, secure way (with 
high levels of transparency and personal 
data protection), both in Switzerland 
and internationally. In Switzerland, 
the government has introduced four 
strategic initiatives: a digital action plan, 
a cybersecurity strategy, a cyberdefense 
strategy and a Swiss data-security network. 
Other recent developments – such as the 
Swiss Digital Initiative, the CyberPeace 
Institute, and the Libra Association (all 
based in Geneva), along with Microsoft’s 
Defending Democracy Program on 
electronic voting – are giving us a clear 
opportunity to scale up the four strategic 
initiatives to an international level and position EPFL at the center of a dynamic, 
growing ecosystem.
Our School is home to the Center for Digital 
Trust (C4DT), an alliance of businesses and 
universities that aims to facilitate innovation 
in digital-trust-enhancing products and 
services. C4DT has international reach, 
bringing together businesses, EPFL 
laboratories, members of the general 
public and policymakers to collaborate, 
share insight and obtain early access to the 
trust-building technology being developed 
at EPFL and elsewhere.
C4DT will have two key priorities under the 
2021–2024 strategy. First, it will facilitate 
technology transfer and make sure that 
Switzerland remains competitive on the 
issue of digital trust by giving stakeholders 
access to EPFL-developed software, 
raising awareness among decision-makers 
and building a community around the topic. 
Second, it will advocate effective policies 
at the national and international levels, 
positioning EPFL as a global benchmark. 
To that end, we will work closely with Swiss 
government agencies (cantonal and federal) 
on the four strategic initiatives mentioned 
above (in part through a joint cybersecurity 
support center in Bern operated together 
with ETH Zurich), contribute to international 
initiatives and foundations (such as the 
CyberPeace Institute in Geneva) and 
foster collaboration with other universities 
in Switzerland (such as UNIGE, UNIL and 
HEID) and abroad.
33
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 6. SUSTAINABILITY
Transitioning from the current modus 
operandi to a sustainable one is probably 
the greatest challenge facing the global 
community in the 21st century. Universities 
– and schools of science and engineering in 
particular – should serve as natural catalysts 
in this transition owing to their unique role 
in generating the skills, knowledge and 
entrepreneurship needed to address this 
challenge. However, fulfilling this role will 
entail expanding their scope: in addition to 
their longstanding missions of education, 
research and innovation, universities 
must seek cross-sector partnerships 
with the general public, policymakers and 
businesses to jointly develop sustainable 
solutions that respond to societal needs. At EPFL, we have long recognized our 
responsibility towards the global community, 
especially with regards to the environment. 
We have expanded our research and 
teaching capabilities in fields such as 
renewable energy, green chemistry and 
sustainable living, and we actively promote 
sustainability at our campuses – primarily 
through the Sustainable Campus initiative we 
rolled out in 2007 . Projects under this initiative 
include building the largest urban solar power 
plant in Switzerland, with a surface area of 
15,500 m2; upgrading our heating system to 
use only lake water for heating and cooling (it 
will be fully operational in 2021); encouraging 
green transportation, with the result that 
today over 80% of EPFL commuters use 
© Catherine 
Leutenegger / 
EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausannelow-carbon or public transportation; running 
a pilot project to reduce air travel by EPFL 
employees and establish a set of travel 
guidelines; and launching a sustainable 
food strategy that entails using more locally 
produced food and washable dishes for all 
take-away lunches on campus. Recently, 
the farmland owned by UNIL and EPFL was 
made available to a young collective in order 
to grow fruit, vegetables and trees and breed 
farm animals through a sustainable, closed-
loop system. The farm’s products will be sold 
directly on site and on the EPFL and UNIL 
campuses. These are just a few of the many 
steps we are taking as a responsible steward 
of our environment.
Given the scale and complexity of the 
sustainability challenge facing our society, 
we intend to step up our efforts over the 
next few years and position our School 
as a benchmark university in integrated 
sustainability. By serving as an example 
both within Switzerland and internationally, 
we will not only uphold our mission as a 
public-sector university but also enhance 
our own organization. The goal is to 
embed sustainability in all aspects of our 
School: governance, education, research, 
innovation, our community and our 
operations. More specifically, we will:
• set up the right systems and processes 
to foster a sustainability-oriented culture
•  incorporate sustainability topics into the 
curricula of all our degree programs, so 
that students have the skills they need 
to be responsible leaders and address 
key environmental and societal issues
• leverage the expertise of our scientists and 
engineers to accelerate the development 
of innovative technology with concrete 
applications, primarily through cross-
disciplinary research projects
•  promote mechanisms for spurring technological innovation, particularly in 
the field of environmental protection, 
and for transferring that technology to 
society either through the creation of 
startups or by facilitating widespread 
adoption
•  enhance knowledge-sharing among 
scientists, engineers, economists, the 
general public and policymakers
•  reduce and offset our CO2 emissions 
in order to help meet the goals of the 
Paris Climate Agreement and the Swiss 
government’s climate strategy (i.e., a 
50% reduction in CO2 emissions by 
2030 relative to 2006 levels).
In addition, we recently set up a task force 
composed of faculty members, staff and 
students who will work together to outline 
a roadmap for making our campuses more 
sustainable. This task force will develop 
an EPFL-wide action plan with specific, 
measurable targets in all the areas 
mentioned above along with deadlines for 
achieving those targets under the aegis of 
the new vice-presidency for responsible 
transformation.

35
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 7.  STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS  
OF THE ETH DOMAIN
7.1.  SWISS DATA SCIENCE CENTER
Today we are seeing a growing need for 
a national applied-research center – one 
that would serve as a platform for providing 
research services, encouraging joint 
projects with organizations beyond the 
ETH Domain and pooling the resources 
of all Swiss universities. The goal would 
be to provide data-science and artificial-
intelligence facilities, tools and services 
to university researchers as well as 
businesses and the public sector. Such 
a center would also foster excellence in 
cross-disciplinary data-driven research, 
disseminate best practices in FAIR 
(findability, accessibility, interoperability 
and reusability) data and in open science, 
and promote open innovation. 
EPFL’s Swiss Data Science Center (SDSC) 
is ideally suited to play this role. It sits at 
the crossroads of business and academia, drawing on a vast network and solid 
reputation in Switzerland and beyond. 
Under our 2021–2024 strategy, the SDSC 
will step up its data-science and artificial-
intelligence research collaborations 
within the ETH Domain and form cross-
disciplinary partnerships with other Swiss 
universities. It will expand existing joint 
research projects, initiate new discussions 
with universities abroad and further extend 
the use of its FAIR-data and open-science 
platforms (including RENKU) to national and 
international universities and businesses.
In its partnerships with industry, the SDSC 
will encourage the use of data science 
by showing the beneficial impact it can 
have in specific areas, while managing 
expectations on both sides. It will jointly 
hire and guide junior data scientists in 
accordance with a full cost recovery model. 
 © Vincent 
Guignet  / EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneIt will also help disseminate knowledge 
in data science by taking an increasingly 
active role in continuing education, training, 
and coaching programs for professionals 
in industry and academia.
To help reach its goals, the SDSC will issue 
joint calls for proposals with other Swiss 
organizations (such as swissuniversities 
and the Swiss National Science 
Foundation) for large-scale, data-driven, cross-disciplinary research projects that 
adhere to FAIR data principles. It will also 
further strengthen its ties with businesses 
and university research labs across 
Switzerland. One aim will be to turn existing 
joint projects into long-term strategic 
partnerships. Another will be to introduce 
an executive education program, in order 
to keep playing an important role in higher 
education initiatives at the national level.
7. 2 .  PERSONALIZED HEALTH AND RELATED TECHNOLOGY
Healthcare is being revolutionized by 
technological breakthroughs in life 
science, engineering, computer science 
and communications. While this presents 
a number of formidable opportunities, it 
also comes with a fair share of challenges. 
At EPFL, we aim to help address these 
challenges through our Health 2030 
initiative, launched in conjunction with 
the universities of Geneva, Lausanne and 
Bern and their affiliated hospitals. The 
initiative is a multicentric, cross-disciplinary 
program designed to explore the 
potential of new technology for delivering 
personalized healthcare and precision 
medicine. Health 2030 is part of the ETH 
Domain’s Personalized Health and Related 
Technologies (PHRT) initiative and the Swiss 
Personalized Health Network (SPHN), which 
was created to promote the development 
of personalized healthcare systems in 
Switzerland.
Precision medicine entails generating, 
interpreting and cross-comparing large data 
sets obtained through “omics” analyses 
(such as genomics, proteomics and 
metabolomics). In 2017 , the ETH Domain 
opened the Health 2030 Genome Center 
as part of its PHRT initiative. The Center 
serves as an international hub for clinical-
grade genomic analyses and leverages 
genetics- and genomics-related synergies among scientists, clinicians and the general 
public. It is becoming a leading institute for 
high-throughput sequencing in Switzerland, 
making the best technology and analytics 
systems available to all Swiss clinical and 
research organizations.
One clinical service provided by the Genome 
Center is the fast-turnaround sequencing 
of tumor samples, which is becoming 
an essential tool for doctors to identify a 
tumor’s molecular characteristics, establish 
a prognosis and choose the best course of 
treatment, whether drug- or immune-based. 
It works closely with the Swiss Cancer Center 
Leman (SCCL) to provide this service. 
The Genome Center, in association with the 
Clinical Proteotype Analysis Center (the PHRT 
Proteomic Platform), based at ETH Zurich, has 
created a Swiss “omics” research pipeline that 
will help anchor our country at the forefront of 
precision medicine. A pilot project has already 
been completed where the combined PHRT 
Platforms generated a multi-omics data set 
in record time from a cohort of around 230 
young patients with a rare kidney disorder.
EPFL is involved in several other personalized 
healthcare initiatives in Switzerland; we 
are helping to develop national strategies, 
carry out several joint research projects and 
promote two other skills centers in precision 
37
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan medicine by hosting the Swiss Data 
Science Center (SDSC) and the SCITAS 
high-performance computing cluster.
7 .3.  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING
Under the ETH Board’s 2017–2020 
strategy, we furthered our efforts to develop 
a skills center in advanced manufacturing, 
initially drawing on ETH Board funding for 
this Strategic Focus Area. EPFL labs are 
taking part in nine of the eleven advanced-
manufacturing projects selected during 
two calls for proposals (one in 2016 and 
one in 2017), and lead three of them.
The Strategic Focus Area funding we 
received has been used for a variety of 
objectives. They include setting up an 
additive manufacturing platform; hiring an 
engineer from the University of California, 
Berkeley, to head the Advanced Fabrication 
Technology Laboratory at EPFL; and hiring 
a director in October 2018 to set up and 
manage the Micro-Manufacturing Science 
and Engineering Center (M2C). This center provides engineering and management 
resources for businesses and universities 
to conduct research in advanced micro-
manufacturing, the miniaturization of high-
precision components and integrated 
systems with embedded intelligence. 
Under the 2021–2024 strategy, M2C 
will expand its partnerships and acquire 
additional additive-manufacturing 
equipment in order to expand its know-
how and offer a broader range of services 
to the microengineering industry. EPFL as 
a whole will continue its efforts in advanced 
manufacturing and actively participate in 
joint R&D projects in this field. Regarding 
our degree programs, the microengineering 
section will develop a new study plan that 
fully incorporates advanced manufacturing 
concepts.
7. 4 .  ENERGY
The three factors driving today’s 
energy transformation are digitalization, 
decentralization and decarbonization. 
Modern climate and energy policies require 
the extensive use of renewable energy, often 
with the additional constraint of securing 
a country’s energy supply. This is further 
complicated by the fluctuating nature of 
renewable-energy generation systems and 
of demand for power. That makes it difficult to 
operate power grids efficiently and effectively. 
On the positive side, the energy transition 
is creating new opportunities in education, 
research, and innovation, from both an 
economic and academic perspective. In response, we will consolidate EPFL’s 
world-class standing in this field, building 
on our excellence in education, our 
technological development capabilities and 
our mechanisms for transferring knowledge 
to industry and society through effective 
pilot projects. We introduced a new Master’s 
program in Energy Science and Technology 
that teaches students how to tackle present 
and future energy challenges, whether 
they decide to pursue careers in industry 
or academia. Students in the program can 
choose from three specializations: energy 
conversion devices, energy systems, and 
energy management and sustainability. 
The program includes lectures by EPFL’s 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneinternationally renowned professors as well as 
hands-on lab experience at our state-of-the-
art research facilities.
Our school is home to several highly-ranked 
scientists – in fields such as materials science, 
plasma physics, computer science, data 
science and energy systems – who conduct 
advanced research on energy technology. 
Their work covers next-generation energy 
conversion and storage devices such as 
heterojunction solar cells, solar-to-hydrogen 
converters and nanoscale semiconductor 
devices, as well as internet-inspired real-
time grid monitoring and control algorithms. 
The technology developed in our energy 
innovation ecosystem is showcased through 
demonstrators and pilot projects. Another 
element of our strategy involves conducting 
real-world socio-economic experiments in 
order to identify possible catalysts of the 
energy transition. 

39
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 8. RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURES
8.1. CATAL YSIS PROCESS DISCOVERY HUB 
Switzerland is a world leader in the 
transformation of petrochemical-based 
building blocks into high-added-value 
specialty chemicals. Currently, more than 
90% of all synthetic compounds (such as 
agrochemicals and pharmaceuticals) are 
produced using catalytic processes driven 
mainly by fossil fuels. Discovering new 
catalytic processes and new compounds 
will be key to keeping Switzerland’s 
chemical industry competitive and building 
a sustainable economy. If we want to create a sustainable carbon cycle, free Switzerland 
from its dependence on fossil fuels and 
ultimately make the country carbon neutral, 
then we will need to develop selective 
conversion processes that generate lower 
waste, use less energy and emit fewer 
greenhouse gases. The key will be using 
catalysis to reinvent existing processes for 
producing specialty chemicals by shifting 
those processes away from petrochemical 
feedstocks and towards renewable raw 
materials.
© Olivier 
Christinat / EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneTo help achieve this goal, we will create 
a world-leading research center called 
Catalysis Process Discovery Hub (Cat+) 
that will be based jointly at ETH Zurich and 
EPFL. Cat+ will leverage the two universities’ 
combined excellence in chemistry and 
chemical engineering to give Swiss 
businesses and researchers open access 
to state-of-the-art skills and equipment 
for catalyst discovery, reaction discovery 
and process optimization. The site at 
ETH Zurich will focus on heterogeneous 
catalysts, while the one at EPFL will study 
molecular catalysts. The center as a whole 
will provide the scientific community 
with advanced facilities for the discovery, 
characterization and large-scale testing 
of new homogeneous and heterogeneous 
catalysts and novel catalytic processes.
The center will use a high-throughput, 
machine-guided approach for the rapid 
discovery and evaluation of leads and 
parameter space. This will entail setting 
up an integrated workflow with fully 
automated processes for the synthesis, 
characterization and evaluation of 
molecular and solid catalysts, drawing 
on methods in computational learning, machine learning and artificial intelligence. 
The goal will be to provide best-in-class 
facilities and expertise in:
• evaluating and screening new, highly 
efficient catalysts, processes and 
methods for converting feedstocks 
that are abundant today into high-
added-value compounds
• using artificial intelligence, machine 
learning and high-throughput 
experimental methods to accelerate 
catalyst discovery and make other 
unexpected discoveries
• using spectroscopy instruments 
with unprecedented resolution and 
computing power to design new 
and better catalysts that overcome 
current obstacles like instability and 
deactivation
• supplying leading-edge know-how in 
the development of new, sustainable 
and efficient catalytic processes 
for the synthesis of highly complex 
compounds and smart materials.
8.2.  BLUE BRAIN PROJECT
The Blue Brain Project (BBP) aims to build 
biologically faithful, digital reconstructions 
of the rodent brain and ultimately the human 
brain. BBP scientists run simulations to 
better understand the chain of events 
responsible for the brain’s behaviors at 
different organizational levels up to and 
including cognition. Under the 2017–2020 
strategy, the BBP focused on developing 
tools and methods for reconstructing 
and simulating individual and multiple 
interconnected brain regions, all the way 
to the thalamo-neocortical system of the 
mouse. The first BBP translational spin-
off was created during this period and its discoveries were disseminated to the wider 
scientific community. An independent 
review conducted by renowned scientists 
in 2018 commended the BBP’s unique 
research capabilities and advancements. 
Under the 2021–2024 strategy, the BBP’s 
main research goals will be to develop (i) the 
first cellular-level detailed reconstruction 
and simulation of an entire mouse brain; 
(ii) a neocortical microcircuit complete with 
blood vessels, glial cells and molecular 
interactions; and (iii) a second draft of the 
neocortical microcircuit of the human 
brain at the cellular level. These goals are 
41
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan within reach for the first time thanks to 
general advancements in computing, new 
pioneering methods for reconstructing and 
simulating brain tissue and data that have 
been made available by global initiatives 
such as the Allen Institute for Brain Science. 
Specifically, BBP scientists will work to 
mathematically predict complex datasets 
for less-studied brain regions, scale 
up their processes and computational 
capabilities to model the entire mouse 
brain, and expand their international 
research partnerships to study the human 
neocortical microcircuit and coordinate 
some of the most informative experiments 
on human brain tissue. 
As part of the BBP , we also plan to create 
the Swiss Brain Observatory, an integrated 
platform of software and processes to 
provide “neuroscience simulation as a 
service” for major brain-research initiatives 
such as the EU Human Brain Project and 
the US Brain Initiative. The Observatory 
will be supported by joint R&D programs 
between universities and businesses, 
including programs for joint modeling and 
simulation and for coordinated learning 
opportunities for researchers and students 
(such as through MOOCs and summer schools). The Observatory will also conduct 
outreach activities for the general public. By 
providing the capacity to integrate diverse 
data sources across several scales, the 
Observatory will be a strategic resource for 
the Swiss neuroscientific, pharmaceutical 
and medtech industries. One near-
term goal will be to launch a spin-off for 
developing virtual prototyping systems for 
neurotech devices.
To fully exploit synergies between BBP 
and the other EPFL neuro partners and to 
provide a national service in computational 
neurosimulation, we will integrate BBP into 
EPFL under the 2021–2024 strategy, so as to 
i) continue the construction of an integrated 
value chain from theoretical neuroscience 
to neurobiology, neuroengineering, 
clinical translation and tech transfer, and 
to 2) provide and maintain a platform - 
ideally together with CSCS and SDSC - of 
outstanding and transformative simulation 
of the brain. Our goal for BBP is that, at the 
conclusion of its scientific journey, it will 
not only have delivered to its full ability on 
its ambitious goals, but also have nurtured 
further and longer-lasting impact through a 
cohesive community.
8.3. SWISS PLASMA CENTER
The Swiss Plasma Center’s main goals 
under the 2021–2024 strategy will be to 
contribute to the success of the ITER 
program, establish the physics and 
technology behind the DEMOnstration 
power station and demonstrate the 
feasibility of using fusion energy for 
peaceful purposes and for supplying the 
power grid. These goals are in line with 
the European Research Roadmap to the 
Realisation of Fusion Energy, which is 
being implemented by Euratom through 
the EUROfusion consortium (to which 
EPFL belongs). Assuming that Switzerland remains a Euratom member under the 
next European Framework Programme, 
then EPFL – and more specifically, our 
Swiss Plasma Center – will play a key 
role in EUROfusion, in particular through 
the variable configuration tokamak (TCV), 
which is one of the few specific facilities 
necessary for the implementation of the 
Roadmap.
In previous years, we conducted general 
improvements to the Swiss Plasma 
Center’s facilities, including targeted 
upgrades to the TCV (which were funded by 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneEUROfusion and an ETH Board grant) and 
adaptations to the associated equipment to 
support the increasing fusion power of TCV 
plasmas. Now that those improvements 
have been completed, in 2021–2024 we 
will fully exploit the enhanced capabilities 
of both the TCV and smaller-scale plasma 
devices to address key areas of the 
Roadmap.
Engineers at the Swiss Plasma Center will 
combine plasma theory with computer 
simulations and experiments on both 
the TCV and basic plasma devices. 
They will focus on issues where a lack 
of understanding of the fundamental 
mechanisms at work is hampering our 
ability to model, operate and improve 
reactors. The experimental findings will be 
used to outline strategic priorities for further 
research through projects necessitating 
use of the TCV.
Finally, the Swiss Plasma Center will work 
to promote plasma technology transfer, 
spin-offs and cross-disciplinary R&D. We 
will study the environmental and societal 
applications of plasma technology – such as 
plasma-aided agriculture, sterilization and 
plasma medicine – in association with local 
businesses and life-science researchers. 
We will also use low-temperature plasma 
devices to optimize plasma sources, such 
as for advanced particle accelerators.
© Olivier 
Christinat / EPFL
43
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 
9. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES
9.1.  ENAC - SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE, CIVIL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING
MISSION
ENAC is EPFL’s school focuses specifically 
on sustainability in the natural and built 
environments, with activities spanning 
all three of EPFL’s missions: research, 
education and innovation. As a school 
of architecture, civil engineering and 
environmental engineering, ENAC 
leverages EPFL’s status as a cutting-edge engineering school to develop scientific 
responses to today’s environmental and 
societal challenges. We aim to design 
innovative, sustainable processes and 
methods and equip engineers with the 
knowledge, skills and tools they will need 
to spearhead future developments.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneMAJOR CHALLENGES
Rapid changes to our planet’s environment 
– driven by urban population growth, 
resource scarcity and climate change – are 
giving rise to an array of challenges whose 
ramifications will become increasingly 
evident in the upcoming decades. To 
address the threats caused by the climate 
crisis, urbanization and our increasingly 
fragile ecosystems, universities need 
to give architects, civil engineers and 
environmental engineers insight into 
the role they can play in transforming 
disciplines and developing cross-cutting, 
inclusive visions and solutions, operating 
as catalysts for the “socio-ecological 
transition” that must happen to sustain life 
on earth.
ENAC is well-positioned to address 
these challenges. Through our solid 
technological background, we showcase 
how technology can serve as a mediator 
between humanity and the built and 
natural environments. Importantly, this 
gives our students and faculty myriad 
opportunities to explore the scientific, 
cultural and human aspects of our 
relationship with these environments.  
STRATEGIC RESEARCH AREAS 
A. Climate-change anticipation, 
mitigation and adaptation
• Spearheading EPFL’s climate research: 
In association with the Faculty of 
Geosciences and Environment at the 
University of Lausanne (UNIL), we have 
started to set up a joint EPFL-UNIL 
research center for action on climate 
change, called CLIMACT. The goal is 
to promote knowledge sharing and 
innovation for the evidence-based 
transformation of the ways in which 
our society functions and consumes 
resources in today’s rapidly changing world. ENAC will contribute to leading 
the center jointly with UNIL, embarking 
colleagues from the other faculties 
and colleges, thus, drawing on EPFL’s 
broad skills in climate change and 
technology and pooling them with 
UNIL’s complementary expertise. 
•  Providing a testbed for research and 
development: We will develop a testbed 
for systems designed to model, 
mitigate and counter the causes and 
impacts of climate change. The testbed 
will allow engineers to transition from 
the simulation to the proof-of-concept 
stage of their projects through iterative 
feedback loops. The testing facilities 
will include mountain environments 
and urban areas and will provide a living 
laboratory covering a wide range of 
environmental conditions. The findings 
will help engineers evaluate tradeoffs 
among the critical factors of air, water, 
energy, food and health. 
• Modeling and adapting to climate 
change: We will leverage our testing, 
technological and modeling capabilities 
to assess and predict changes to the 
natural environment across a range of 
climate and geographical conditions. 
We will step up our work in developing 
adaptation strategies for climate 
change through cross-disciplinary 
programs that cut across EPFL’s 
schools and educational levels.
• Developing climate change mitigation 
technology: Negative Emission 
Technology (NET) is technology that 
directly removes and sequesters 
CO2 from the atmosphere. ENAC in 
collaboration with other faculties at 
EPFL will explore potential applications 
for NET in the areas of carbon 
mineralization, enhanced weathering 
and next-generation membranes (e.g., 
new materials for separating CO2 from 
air).
45
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan B. Digitalization of infrastructure and 
cities 
• Enhancing our computational and 
integrative data-driven capabilities: 
Professionals in all three ENAC fields 
– architecture, civil engineering and 
environmental engineering – are facing 
an almost insatiable need for big-data 
analysis capabilities. The challenge 
they face is turning reams of data into 
actionable knowledge. We plan to 
shore up our strengths in data science 
by hiring faculty with backgrounds in 
specific fields as well as data science, 
and by conducting cross-disciplinary 
research with other EPFL schools. 
• Developing sensing and actuation 
technology for the optimized design 
and use of infrastructure: We will make 
next-generation sensor technology 
available at several different spatial 
and time scales, enabling engineers 
to better design and build large sensor 
networks that can generate data at 
exponential growth rates. We will also 
increase our ability to design, develop 
and deploy multimodal sensor and 
actuation systems at different scales, 
so that they can be used to automate 
and improve existing methods for 
infrastructure design and use. 
• Adding simulation layers to digital twins 
for infrastructure design, operation 
and maintenance: To help engineers 
factor uncertainty and risk analyses 
into their decision-support models, 
we will assess and explore the utility 
of analytical tools such as artificial 
intelligence, optimization, data analysis 
and mathematical modeling.
• Designing with resource constraints 
and radically rethinking existing 
construction methods: In the 
built environment, constraints on 
resources require a radical rethinking of construction methods and the 
associated skills. We will contribute 
to these efforts by (i) assessing and 
minimizing the ecological impact of 
the built environment in terms of CO2-
footprint and global environmental cost, 
(ii) developing new concepts for the 
use of recycled components through 
advances in digital design and digital 
fabrication, and (iii) employing new 
materials with improved environmental 
footprints and life cycles.
C. Sustainable urban development 
• Strengthening our expertise in 
sustainable urban development: We 
will build new laboratories to study 
emerging horizons in the field of 
sustainable urban development, with 
a focus on modern concepts such as 
the carbon-neutral circular economy, 
sustainable urban metabolism, life-
cycle and risk analyses, shared and 
on-demand transportation systems, 
and distributed energy systems and 
networks. 
• Supporting integrative, systemic urban 
development: Using a systems-of-
systems approach, we will develop 
new, human-centric transportation and 
housing paradigms for highly populated 
urban areas and their suburbs. This 
systems-driven approach will help 
engineers manage small- and large-
scale parallel networked systems using 
a combination of flexibility, cooperation 
and collaboration. 
• Linking technology at different 
scales through network analysis 
and modeling: Sustainable urban 
development requires efficiently 
bringing together and acting on 
knowledge collected across different 
scales and fields. We will therefore 
develop and promote multiscale, 
multimodal views of urban systems and 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausannethe corresponding structures and flow 
mechanisms (e.g., flows of microbes, 
energy and humans), including 
for large networks with numerous 
interconnected infrastructure systems 
and subsystems. 
• Transforming regions by reshaping 
the links between urban and rural 
areas: The boundaries between urban 
and rural areas are blurring, requiring 
policymakers to reconsider existing 
methods for producing food and 
ensuring public health. We will help 
policymakers navigate these changes 
by developing new approaches and 
strategies for implementing targeted, 
well-informed and proactive measures. 
This will entail modeling and analyzing 
the effects of land-use changes on 
factors such as urban heat, urban 
ecology and urban agriculture. 
D. Technology for basic utilities 
• Leveraging synergies in technology 
development: EPFL has extensive 
technology-related expertise in areas 
such as image and signal processing, 
control systems, robotics, machine 
learning, data analysis, energy systems 
and large-scale computing under 
uncertainty. At ENAC, we will explore 
new research avenues and promote 
translational research in a variety of 
applications by partnering with other 
EPFL schools in research projects and 
cross-school professorships.
• Driving the shift towards energy self-
sufficiency and carbon-neutrality: 
We will continue to lead efforts in 
the development and evaluation of 
distributed energy systems (using 
hydro, wind, geothermal and solar power), as well as energy-efficient 
systems for the construction and 
operation of infrastructure. We will also 
support the societal transformations 
that are needed to shift to a balanced 
urban metabolism and a circular, 
zero-carbon society. Through our 
involvement in EPFL’s Energy Center, 
we will play an active role in achieving 
EPFL’s energy and sustainability goals.
• Developing improved systems for 
sustainable water management: Many 
water treatment plants in Switzerland 
must be upgraded by 2040, requiring a 
total investment of some CHF 1 billion. 
We are working with Eawag to update 
our degree programs (e.g., such as by 
hiring joint ENAC-Eawag professors) 
with the ultimate goal of helping 
water treatment plants maximize their 
return on investment. We will give 
engineers advanced training in water 
management systems, so that they 
can develop new water treatment 
technology and processes. Our efforts 
will focus in particular on the utility and 
innovation potential of emerging fields 
such as sensors, big data and AI.
• Anticipating new transportation 
technology: Technological advances 
in fields such as autonomous vehicles, 
electrification and shared vehicle 
platforms are profoundly changing the 
structure of transportation services. 
City officials would like to make 
their transportation systems more 
predictable and controllable through 
the better use of existing capacity and 
resources. We are supporting these 
efforts by developing, modeling and 
assessing new modes of transportation 
and how they can be incorporated into 
existing systems. 
47
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan EDUCATION
We will review our existing degree programs 
to make sure they are fully aligned with 
future technological and societal needs. 
Our goal is to train engineers and architects 
who excel in their fields and are capable 
of working effectively with professionals 
from other fields to address sustainability 
challenges. This capacity for cross-
disciplinary collaboration will be essential 
for ongoing innovation. Under the 2012–
2024 strategy, our efforts to update our 
degree programs will focus on:
• New minors: We will look into creating 
minors in three of our strategic research 
areas: climate change anticipation, 
mitigation, and adaptation; digitalization 
of infrastructure and cities; and 
sustainable urban development. The 
minors will be housed within individual 
ENAC sections and touch on all three 
ENAC disciplines (and potentially other 
fields as well). We plan to partner with 
UNIL for the climate minor and with 
other EPFL schools for classes in 
digitalization and artificial intelligence.
• The Design Together program: 
we will enhance the curriculum for 
this program by providing additional 
opportunities for students from the 
three ENAC disciplines to work together 
in classes taught by professors from 
several different fields (at both the 
Bachelor’s and Master’s level).INNOVATION
ENAC’s areas of research are intrinsically 
relevant to today’s key societal challenges. 
Our pioneering research gives rise to 
innovative solutions for addressing 
societal, environmental and technological 
issues, helping to further progress on 
sustainable development and climate-
change mitigation. We will expand our 
support for innovation and technology 
transfer by giving researchers easier 
access to the resources provided by the 
Vice Presidency for Innovation, and by 
fostering an entrepreneurial spirit across 
our community. 
By grouping our research projects into the 
four strategic areas mentioned above, we 
will provide clear entry points for businesses 
and public-sector organizations. This will 
help create a beneficial feedback loop 
between the academic and business 
worlds for technology transfer and private-
sector funding. Innovation is a pillar of our 
school and an essential component of our 
research.
© Olivier 
Christinat / EPFL
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne9.2.  IC - SCHOOL OF COMPUTER AND COMMUNICATION 
SCIENCES
MISSION
IC is a world-leading center for education, 
research and innovation in the computer 
and communication sciences. We teach 
the fundamentals and details of an 
exciting, disruptive field, perform research 
that pushes the boundaries of knowledge, 
develop commercial applications 
for our technology and encourage 
entrepreneurship by our faculty and 
students.
RESEARCH
Computer science is a rapidly evolving field 
that has revolutionized many aspects of 
our daily lives. Apple’s iPhone came out just 
12 years ago, WhatsApp just ten years ago, 
and deep neural networks just seven years 
ago. Data science has also developed 
exponentially during this time. These 
technological advances – which build on 
many years of computer science research 
– are milestones along a path, not the end 
of a journey. Many challenging theoretical 
and practical problems remain unsolved. 
We still do not know, for example, how to 
write foolproof software, build trustworthy 
systems, learn from examples reliably 
or optimize many other fundamental 
mechanisms. At the same time, exciting 
new research fields and applications are 
emerging. Computer scientists in general, 
and those at IC specifically, are having to 
balance the competing demands of solving 
known problems and directing their efforts 
towards making new discoveries.
We already have a good idea of what 
the next step will be in the technology-
driven revolution: building increasingly 
sophisticated systems that draw on 
artificial intelligence, data science and 
machine learning. These systems will 
bridge the physical and cyber worlds in new and diverse ways and be capable 
of actions previously considered to be 
exclusively human. They will be not just 
robots, but smart robots and virtual agents 
capable of learning new assignments while 
autonomously and continually adapting 
and improving; not just automated 
manufacturing systems, but machines 
that can continuously monitor, adapt 
and learn while improving complicated 
manufacturing processes for materials 
and pharmaceuticals; not just self-driving 
cars, but regional transport systems that 
autonomously move people and goods 
seamlessly through Switzerland; not just 
the web, but “time machines” that integrate 
and animate historical information. 
None of these can be built with the current 
state of the art, and all require advances in 
computer science. EPFL has considerable 
expertise in many of these areas. At IC, 
we will work with other EPFL schools to 
provide technological leadership in the 
theory and practice of several fields, 
including machine learning, computer 
vision, audio-visual processing, speech, 
natural language processing, artificial 
intelligence, cyberphysical systems, 
human-AI collaboration, agents, planning, 
complex systems, programming models 
and tools, software verification, security, 
trustworthiness and privacy.
At the same time, the foundations of 
computer science are shifting. The most 
evident change is that the 50-year reign of 
Moore’s law is coming to end, with the rate of 
increase in processing power slowing over 
the past few years – at least for silicon-based 
circuits. However, technology using new 
materials, quantum physics and biological 
mechanisms is being developed to solve 
problems that cannot be solved with existing 
silicon-based systems and architecture. 
For instance, quantum computing – which 
49
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan employs a radically different computational 
model – may yield solutions for important 
but currently unsolvable problems in 
optimization, materials design and other 
areas, while simultaneously driving 
fundamental changes in cryptography. At 
the other end of the spectrum, biologically-
inspired technology shows promise for 
the design of energy-efficient, robust 
and failure-tolerant devices, and has the 
advantage of being able to draw on many 
different biological mechanisms (such as 
those used by neurons) as computational 
models.
Advances in computer science should also 
be applied to correct some of the societal 
problems caused by its past failings, such 
as the abysmal security of computing 
systems, pervasive software defects (bugs), 
disregard for privacy and personal identity, 
impaired trust in societal institutions and 
the educational challenges of digitalization 
and computational thinking. Effective 
solutions to these problems will benefit 
society as a whole and will provide a more 
stable foundation for further discoveries in 
the field of computing. Intelligent systems, 
for instance, will face many societal barriers 
to adoption amid well-founded concerns 
about their trustworthiness.
At IC, we are adapting our research to meet 
these challenges. Our collective focus 
has expanded beyond the core areas of 
computer and communications science, 
and we have formed partnerships with 
scientists in other fields, colleagues at ETH 
Zurich and governments and NGOs. In the 
past five years, we have hired 13 faculty 
members (including two joint members) 
and opened four R&D centers: the Swiss 
Data Science Center (SDSC), the Scala 
Center, the Center for Digital Trust (C4DT) 
and LEARN. We have just opened a fifth, 
the Center for Intelligent Systems.
But this is not enough: we need to expand 
our school as a whole. At the end of 2018, we had 44 faculty members but only 39.75 
FTEs (since two professors also serve as 
full-time EPFL administrators). While this 
is two FTEs more than we had in 2013, the 
number of entering undergraduate students 
rose by 51% over that same period, and 
the total number students rose by 20%. 
Top computer science departments in 
the US grew far more rapidly as a result of 
higher enrollment, and most are now 50% 
larger than IC. At the same time, computer 
science as a field is expanding to include 
a variety of connected research areas. 
Most salient of these are data science and 
machine learning, which are emerging as 
fundamental methods applicable to most 
areas of research and to many industries. 
It is hard for a school like IC to hire faculty 
in these new areas because of competition 
from other universities and industry. 
However, we must step up our efforts to do 
so – not just in machine learning and data 
science, but also in closely linked fields 
such as computer vision, natural language 
processing, speech and robot planning.
Some of our faculty positions will be 
renewed through retirement. Eight 
professors will reach retirement age 
between 2021 and 2024, or around 20% 
of our total faculty. While we will certainly 
feel the loss of these colleagues, it also 
means that we will be able to redirect 
some of our resources to other disciplines, 
for the benefit of both IC and EPFL. But 
redirecting even half of those resources will 
not be enough to build a strong, diversified 
research group (3–4 professors) in more 
than one fundamental area. Moreover, 
renewing our faculty addresses only the 
shift in research areas, it does not resolve 
the issue of increased student enrollment.
Another goal at IC will be to initiate larger, 
more ambitious research programs. Our 
research is currently performed mainly 
through small projects, typically funded 
and staffed by a single laboratory. This is a 
proven approach to research and is in line 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausannewith many faculty members’ preferences. 
However, large projects involving 
researchers from several fields can address 
more important, challenging and visible 
problems – and consequently attract more 
funding and increase our school’s visibility 
and impact. IC projects that have played 
this role in the past include NCCR Mobile 
Information and Communication Systems 
and Nano-Tera. Going forward, we need 
to cultivate more ambitious projects at IC, 
at scales all the way up to that of NCCR. 
This will allow us to conduct more joint 
research with other fields and increase our 
visibility. One important vehicle for cross-
disciplinary R&D is the new Center for 
Intelligent Systems, but we also need to 
take the lead in initiating programs in other 
areas of importance to computer science.  
EDUCATION
Computer science is attracting a growing 
number of undergraduate and Master’s 
students. Undergraduate enrollment has 
more than doubled in the past decade. 
When our school was created, we had 25 
students (all levels) per FTE faculty member. 
That number is now 42 – the highest 
at EPFL. We teach many of the largest 
courses on campus as well. While we 
have not significantly increased our faculty 
over that period, we have introduced two 
new Master’s programs (in data science 
and cybersecurity) that address important 
technological and societal issues and offer 
excellent job prospects for students.
Another challenge we face, in addition 
to serving a growing number of students 
with limited resources, is the need to forge 
ties with other disciplines. Conceptual 
methods and discoveries originating in 
computer science, especially the method 
of computational thinking, are increasingly 
being adopted by other fields. We started 
offering an introduction to computational 
thinking class for all EPFL students over six years ago, and this class has been highly 
popular. The next step will be to extend this 
approach to equip students with robust 
skills in not just data science, but the life 
sciences as well (for example), so that they 
acquire the field-specific knowledge and 
analytical techniques necessary to solve 
complex problems in industry.
We are in the process of reviewing certain 
aspects of our curriculum. For example, 
our undergraduates currently take up to 
eight classes per semester after their 
first year. By contrast, their counterparts 
in the US take fewer classes, but each 
class covers the material in more detail. 
We are also reviewing the way we divide 
up our undergraduate sections – into 
computer science and communication 
systems – since communication systems 
is not a field that high-school students are 
familiar with. In our school, communication 
systems cover the more theoretical and 
mathematical subjects of computer 
science, with a 75% overlap in course 
requirements. Making this distinction more 
explicit might simplify matters for students.
Another priority is to create identifiable 
minors for Master’s students so that they 
can follow tailored study programs with 
clear endpoints. The alternative – creating 
new Master’s degrees in data science 
and cybersecurity, for example – would 
be administratively time-consuming and 
problematic, especially in such a rapidly 
changing field. In addition, students need 
guidance in putting together coherent study 
programs. We are therefore considering 
the minors as a way to adapt our Master’s 
programs and encourage specialization.
Emerging fields such as intelligent 
systems and education technology would 
also benefit from distinct programs at 
both the undergraduate and PhD level. We 
recently opened the Center for Intelligent 
Systems through a joint effort with other 
EPFL schools; this Center will probably 
51
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan evolve into a research institute with its 
own Master’s and PhD programs. We also 
have other important initiatives under way, 
such as in education technology, to attract 
the resources we need to create satellite 
programs. 
IC is also heavily involved in educational 
outreach programs for primary and 
secondary schools. The programs are 
designed to help these schools develop 
intellectually stimulating computer science 
classes for young students. The goal is to 
give students more insight into the field and 
help address the challenges of digitalization 
in Switzerland. We are in talks with local 
education officials about using our materials 
to train teachers and develop guidelines 
for primary and secondary schools so 
that they can create age-appropriate 
computer science classes. At EPFL, we 
offer a computer science class to first-year 
students that provides an intriguing yet 
rigorous look at the underlying concepts.  
INNOVATION
Our school engages closely with the 
global technology industry through an 
array of joint research programs with 
major multinationals including Google, 
Microsoft, IBM and Intel. Swiss companies are generally consumers of technology 
more than producers, and many of our 
joint ventures with local companies are 
either spin-offs or agreements to develop 
and market technology resulting from IC 
research.
Our R&D centers – EcoCloud and the 
more recent SDSC, Scala, and C4DT – 
take a proactive role in collaborating with 
both Swiss and international companies. 
EcoCloud has broad industry support and 
has transferred technology to many IT and 
data-hosting companies. C4DT shares its 
digital trust platform with more than a dozen 
firms, developing new products that use 
blockchain and data-security technology 
developed by our engineers. Scala 
supports the continued development of 
the popular Scala programming language, 
which was created at IC, in association 
with the multinationals that use it. And our 
EdTech Collider currently hosts 76 startups 
in the field of educational technology.
We believe that our school’s new research 
orientations will give rise to innovative local 
businesses that will market the technology 
developed at our labs. These businesses 
will provide further opportunities for joint 
research and benefit Switzerland as a 
whole.
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanne9.3.  FSB - SCHOOL OF BASIC SCIENCES
MISSION
FSB conducts cutting-edge research 
and provides world-class educational 
programs in chemistry, chemical 
engineering, mathematics and physics. 
We give students a strong foundation in 
these fundamental sciences and prepare 
them for fulfilling careers in business and 
academia. The research performed at our 
school is both collaborative and cross-
disciplinary, and pushes the boundaries of 
existing knowledge. 
RESEARCH
There is no leading university worldwide 
without substantial strength in the 
fundamental sciences. These sciences 
are characterized by curiosity-driven 
research that is fueled by scientists’ 
imagination and creativity. At the same 
time, much groundbreaking research in 
the fundamental sciences is inspired by a 
desire to develop important applications, 
to better understand the world around us 
and to find answers to the challenges of 
modern society.
Research in the fundamental sciences 
often shows its value on a much longer 
time scale than for the applied sciences 
and engineering. Therefore, to advance the 
fundamental sciences at EPFL, we should 
focus not on current topics or trends, but 
rather on areas of strength and initiatives 
that attract the most creative, innovative 
students and researchers. This includes 
offering conditions and opportunities that 
allow them to pursue long-term research 
efforts in a strong collaborative and 
interdisciplinary spirit.
This focus on excellence permeates FSB, 
which is consistently ranked as the best 
school at EPFL. However, maintaining this position and further expanding our 
capabilities will require growing our school 
in different ways. Compared with most other 
similar schools around the world, the three 
institutes at FSB – Chemical Sciences and 
Engineering (ISIC), Mathematics (MATH) 
and Physics (IPHYS) – are small and have 
experienced only limited growth during 
this decade of substantial expansion at 
EPFL as a whole. That is beginning to 
affect our research and education and 
should be addressed through targeted 
growth initiatives in priority areas. One 
opportunity to refocus our scientific efforts 
will come with the retirement of more than 
20 professors during the next five years. 
However, this will not address the more 
basic issue of how to better serve the 
rapidly growing student population at EPFL 
and how we can spearhead more large-
scale, collaborative flagship projects.
Breakthroughs in the fundamental sciences 
often occur at the crossroads of two or 
more traditional fields or by combining 
traditionally disparate methods within the 
same fields. Therefore, we must prioritize 
the hiring of individuals who adhere to such 
a collaborative, dynamic approach, and we 
should facilitate their efforts by creating 
an environment that provides the right 
intellectual support and research facilities. 
Our most pressing societal problems 
cannot be solved within a single school or 
research institute, but rather require broad 
cross-disciplinary collaboration – and this 
is where FSB can play an important role. 
In addition to the EPFL-wide research 
centers that we already participate in, such 
as the Center for Intelligent Systems, we 
also play a leading role in large national 
and international projects like NCCR and 
several EU Flagship programs. Historically, 
both ISIC and IPHYS have been involved in 
such efforts, but there is scope for greater 
involvement, especially by MATH.
53
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan Chemistry
There is a revolution underway in the field of 
chemistry as science and technology move 
to the atomic scale across applications – from 
pharmaceuticals and computing to precision 
manufacturing. This paradigm shift is fueling 
demand for new types of compounds and 
materials. At the same time, chemists are 
applying some of the advanced methods 
being developed in computer science to 
chemical processes, resulting in completely 
new approaches to understanding complex 
systems. This has spurred the rapid 
development of physical methods for atomic-
level analyses, as well as the use of computer 
modeling as an accurate, efficient method 
for discovering new functional compounds 
and materials. These tools are enabling 
scientists to develop innovative solutions 
to challenges in natural and synthetic 
chemistry. Technological advances in high-
level instrumentation, large-scale facilities 
and high-performance computing – which 
have traditionally been oriented towards 
physics and structural biology – are now 
also transforming chemistry, with the advent 
of high-resolution electron microscopy, 
ultra-high field NMR spectroscopy, second-
generation synchrotrons, and X-Ray free 
electron lasers.
Applications in renewable energy and 
storage, sustainable chemical production 
and next-generation therapeutics are seeing 
major societal demand for new chemical 
compounds. Chemists are working to 
address these challenges, especially in 
emerging fields like atomic-level precision 
engineering, atomic-level materials 
science and new chemical functionalities. 
Recent developments in computing power, 
characterization, nanoscience and synthetic 
biology have enhanced chemists’ ability 
to observe, predict and control molecular-
level structures in complex architectures. 
Ongoing advances in computing speed and 
machine learning will further transform the 
fields of chemistry and chemical process 
development.Under the 2021–2024 strategy, we will 
aim to establish an EPFL-wide research 
center on metal halide perovskites to build 
on EPFL’s unique standing and recent 
achievements.
Mathematics
The field of mathematics has always 
been driven by both internal dynamics 
and developments in the fields where it is 
applied. However, the previous tendency 
towards fragmentation in this field is being 
replaced by a trend towards convergence. 
Pure and applied mathematics are 
converging to an increasing extent and 
interfacing with new research areas. As 
a result, when hiring new professors, our 
school should focus on broad excellence 
(as opposed to narrowly defined skill sets) 
and seek candidates who can forge ties 
both within and outside mathematics.
Although MATH is smaller than most 
universities’ mathematics departments, it 
has a solid reputation internationally and 
is well known in a number of areas, such 
as computational mathematics, algebra, 
algebraic/arithmetic aspects of geometry, 
and probability. In addition, recent hires into 
our faculty have bolstered our capabilities 
in data science. However, MATH still has 
minor weaknesses, primarily in three 
areas: analysis and analytical aspects 
of geometry, discrete mathematics and 
statistics. These areas will be a priority for 
hiring under the new strategy.
MATH scientists are poised to establish 
meaningful contacts in applications such 
as quantum computing, big data, machine 
learning, imaging, complex systems, 
materials, physics and neuroscience. They 
are also in talks to create joint positions to 
strengthen ties across EPFL.
We are working on plans to revamp our 
statistics department with additional 
research and education partnerships 
across EPFL as well as a new statistical 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneconsulting platform for engineers involved 
in statistical design, experimentation and 
analysis. At the same time, we will increase 
the Bernoulli Center’s visibility within EPFL. 
The center is of notable strategic interest for 
EPFL, as it is on par with its counterparts at 
top mathematics departments elsewhere. 
We intend to broaden the center’s scope 
and capacity to include theoretical physics 
and computer science.
Physics
Our physics department is at a turning 
point since many professors will be retiring 
in a short timeframe. This will give us an 
opportunity to build up our strengths and 
explore new, promising research directions 
in association with EPFL professors outside 
IPHYS and FSB.
The field of quantum science and 
technology is growing rapidly with 
discoveries that will affect society in the 
near future. And although we have several 
outstanding faculty members in this field, 
EPFL is not yet an established leader. 
Therefore our top priority at IPHYS is to 
increase our skills in this area, especially in 
quantum sensing, to parallel the research 
being done at ETH Zurich on quantum 
computing and in Geneva on quantum 
communications and cryptography. 
A further goal is to develop strong biophysics 
research capabilities at IPHYS, separate 
from those at the School of Life Sciences, 
that will study the fundamental laws 
governing the behavior of living systems 
at different levels. This aligns well with the 
Imaging@EPFL and Health Sciences and 
Technology strategic research areas.
Another area where IPHYS is particularly 
strong is condensed matter physics. In the 
past, this type of physics has been used to 
develop semiconductor heterostructures 
and quantum photonics, but today the focus 
is shifting towards new low-dimensional 
materials, nano applications and magnetic systems. We will issue a call for proposals 
in ultrafast X-ray technology for a project 
involving SwissFEL (at the Paul Scherrer 
Institute).
As a founding member of the LHCb project 
group at CERN, EPFL is playing an important 
role in experimental high-energy physics. A 
second phase of the LHCb project will begin 
in 2021 with an upgraded testing program. To 
maintain our leadership role in this field, we 
will expand our capabilities in high-energy 
physics with a particular focus on muons 
and neutrons. In experimental astrophysics, 
EPFL currently plays a minor role since we 
have only one chair. However, we plan to 
announce a new position in this field given 
that ETH Zurich will probably scale back its 
research in experimental astrophysics as 
part of its restructuring. Depending on whom 
we select to fill the position, there may be an 
opportunity to build strong ties with image 
processing and mathematics.
Finally, our research efforts in nuclear fusion 
(at the Swiss Plasma Center) and fission (in 
association with the Paul Scherrer Institute) 
are recognized internationally and are of 
strategic importance in Switzerland. We 
intend to continue these efforts with the 
same number of researchers.
EDUCATION
The number of incoming students to FSB 
has grown by nearly 50% over the past 
ten years. These students are taught 
in their first year mainly by physics and 
mathematics professors. However, the 
number of professors in these fields has not 
grown in line with the student body; on the 
contrary, it has remained largely constant. 
This disparity is severely impacting our 
professors’ ability to teach more advanced 
courses. For example, MATH cannot give 
teaching credits for PhD classes, which is 
affecting the quality of our doctoral school. 
In addition, the heavy teaching workload 
55
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan for PhD students makes it difficult to attract 
the brightest candidates and is becoming 
an issue during hiring (such as for joint 
positions). Our doctoral school plans to 
introduce a pure fellowship program for first-
year students, similar to what the School of 
Computer and Communication Sciences 
and most leading schools in the US already 
offer.INFRASTRUCTURE
One of EPFL’s core strengths is our 
cutting-edge research facilities, and this 
is especially true for the experimental 
sciences. However, FSB is located in the 
oldest building on campus, and this is 
starting to cause problems. For our School 
to maintain its scientific excellence, we 
need a new building designed to high 
research-oriented specifications (such as 
for temperature and vibration control). Not 
having more modern facilities will hamper 
our ability to grow and conduct advanced 
research and educational activities, and 
ultimately to reach our full potential.
9.4. STI - SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
MISSION
STI’s mission is well-aligned with the 
core values of the ETH Domain. It entails 
educating well-rounded students and 
preparing them for careers in business 
and academia, fueling new research 
discoveries in engineering, promoting 
technology transfer, adopting innovative 
approaches to engineering education, and 
developing engineering-based responses 
to key societal challenges. 
We are carrying out this mission in a 
climate of rapid, even disruptive change 
in all engineering disciplines. As a result, 
we are continuously looking to enhance 
how we perform our research, educate our 
students, and interact with industry and 
society at large. Our ambition is to position 
STI among the top ten programs worldwide 
in engineering prominence.Our strategy for achieving this goal is based 
on three objectives: 
1. Given the size of our school, we plan 
to focus our efforts on excellence in 
key strategic areas. We cannot afford 
to spread our resources too thin and 
become a marginal contributor to 
engineering discoveries. 
2. We should maintain our strengths in 
core engineering fields. This is because 
strong fundamentals are the real drivers 
of confidence, creativity and innovation.
3. Successful engineering schools are 
those that make major contributions to 
solving societal problems. STI should 
therefore continue to play a leading role in 
technology transfer, forge close ties with 
industry and contribute to advances in 
the life and social sciences, sustainability, 
security and automation.  
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de LausanneSTRATEGIC RESEARCH AREAS
Driven by the above considerations, and 
building on the strengths of the EPFL 
ecosystem, STI has identified six strategic 
research areas where we can make an 
impact in terms of research, education 
and innovation: (i) Engineering in the Life 
and Health Sciences; (ii) Engineering 
for a Sustainable and Secure Society; 
(iii) Engineering for a Data-Driven and 
Networked Society; (iv) Engineering of 
Complex and Intelligent Systems; (v) 
Innovation in Engineering Education; and (vi) 
Engineering Entrepreneurship, Ethics and 
Societal Impact. They all aim to address the 
transformational changes arising from the 
accelerated convergence of electronics 
and biology/medicine, the blending of the 
physical and virtual worlds, the emergence 
of data-driven and networked societies and 
a shift towards smart automated systems 
and renewable resources, energy and 
materials. Our strategic research areas are 
purposely stated in broad terms to pave 
the way for joint programs with other EPFL 
schools, as explained below, and with the 
broader ETH Domain. . 
Engineering and Life Sciences
The fields of engineering and life science 
are merging as researchers develop 
increasingly miniaturized and invasive 
devices for probing and interacting 
with living cells. These technological 
advancements will drive new scientific 
discoveries and treatment possibilities. 
As a result, there are ample opportunities 
for STI to conduct joint research with the 
School of Life Sciences. We are already 
working with that school to expand our 
two joint research centers: the Center 
for Neuroprosthetics and the Institute of 
Bioengineering. We are also coordinating 
our research efforts in neuro-engineering 
and neuro-technology.
Going forward, we need to step up our 
activities in key supporting areas such as brain-machine interfaces, biomedical 
robotics, intelligent bio-instrumentation, 
engineered living systems and integrated 
biosensors and bioelectronics. The first 
two areas involve developing assistive 
technology so that patients can interact with 
their surroundings, such as by using personal 
rehabilitation devices. The third area looks at 
building autonomous robotic microscopes 
that combine physical methods, biological 
models and machine intelligence to 
maximize image quality. The fourth area 
harnesses living organisms’ precision 
synthesis and manufacturing capabilities 
at different levels (molecular, cellular 
and tissue) to construct sophisticated, 
functional mini-tissues or mini-machines 
outside the body. Discoveries in this area 
could lead to new frontiers in medicine and 
manufacturing. All these research areas are 
highly interdisciplinary, drawing on skills from 
bioengineering, biology, chemistry, materials 
science, mechanical engineering, electrical 
engineering and computer science.
Engineering and Computer and Basic 
Sciences
The merging of the virtual and physical 
worlds is driving the development of 
wearable technology, smart devices, 
augmented reality and intelligent systems. 
Autonomous systems are a key enabler 
for these developments, which are 
expected to have profound implications on 
transportation, commerce, employment, 
healthcare and manufacturing. A new 
paradigm will emerge of interconnected, 
intelligent systems with a “mind” of 
their own. This will require new forms 
of engineering and therefore new 
approaches to engineering education, 
in order to design intelligent machines 
that can share the same physical space 
as humans. To that end, there are ample 
opportunities for STI to conduct joint 
research with the School of Computer 
and Communication Sciences and the 
School of Basic Sciences. For instance, 
we already teamed up with these schools 
57
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan to create the Center for Intelligent 
Systems in 2019. This center looks into 
the foundations of intelligent systems as 
well as the associated software, hardware 
and ethical issues; it also studies cross-
disciplinary applications in robotics, digital 
twin systems, bio-inspired intelligent 
systems and intelligent manufacturing. 
Going forward, we need to step up our 
activities in key supporting areas like 
control and automation, secure hardware 
design, micro- and nano-sensors, 
autonomous embedded systems and 
micro-mechatronic systems. The first area 
addresses the fundamental technology 
involved in the design of autonomous 
and networked systems. The other areas 
are essential to support the growing 
importance of the Internet-of-Things (IoT) 
and intelligent sensor technology for 
tomorrow’s autonomous systems. These 
trends are making it crucial for hardware 
devices to be embedded with advanced 
security features. By increasing our 
research efforts in these areas, STI will 
contribute directly to EPFL’s digital trust 
initiative and to Swiss national priorities 
such as cybersecurity. 
Engineering and Data and Network 
Sciences
The rapid growth in data and network 
sciences, along with advances in machine 
learning and computing power, are having 
a major impact on engineering design. 
This is leading to smart new design tools 
that exploit the design space more fully. 
These tools will help engineers discover 
new materials and processes, design 
more responsive systems, run advanced 
manufacturing systems, and perform 
more sophisticated climate and space 
analyses. As a result, there are ample 
opportunities for STI to conduct joint 
research with the School of Computer and 
Communication Sciences, the School of 
Basic Sciences, the Swiss Data Science 
Center, the Paul Scherrer Institute, EMPA, and the IDIAP Research Institute. We 
created a new faculty position in data-
driven engineering design in the 2018–
2019 school year. Obtaining sufficient 
faculty expertise in this field is essential for 
preparing students for impactful careers 
in a data-driven society where issues like 
data interpretation, privacy and ethics will 
become paramount.
Going forward, we need to step up our 
activities in the analysis and design of 
complex and networked engineering 
systems, circuits and technology for 
large-scale data processing and for 
data-enabled materials discovery and 
synthesis. The first two areas will support 
the expected rapid development of 
networked dynamic systems (such as 
networked robotic systems) and sensor-
based data collection systems. The third 
area looks at data-driven approaches to 
the design, discovery and synthesis of 
new materials and at the creation of an 
“internet of materials” that can lead to 
more sustainable, efficient designs.
Engineering and Sustainability
The most imminent challenges currently 
facing humanity relate to the sustainable 
use of energy and materials, mitigating 
climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions, reducing waste and pollution, 
and managing population growth and 
urban development. This will require 
redesigning our entire socioeconomic 
system, which is made up of independent 
yet highly integrated circular flows of 
energy, materials, natural resources, 
products, waste and people. What’s more, 
these flows are often linked with digital 
data flows.
Developing solutions to the aforementioned 
challenges will require breakthroughs in 
data science, data-enabled engineering, 
robotics, machine vision, intelligent 
and autonomous systems, advanced 
manufacturing and telecommunications 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausannesystems. Engineers can start by promoting 
sustainable product design through the 
use of data analytics to conduct product 
life-cycle assessments in the early stages 
of development. Materials science can 
also provide technological solutions 
through the development of recyclable, 
bio-sourced, and bio-degradable plastics, 
sustainable construction materials (which 
are otherwise a major source of CO2 
emissions), materials for benign and 
sustainable energy storage, photovoltaic 
materials, gas separation membranes for 
fuel cell and carbon capture technology, 
and advanced materials for more fuel-
efficient transportation systems. 
Going forward, we need to step up our 
activities in energy storage, energy 
science and technology, structural and 
engineering materials, data-enabled 
materials discovery and synthesis, and 
sustainable and circular manufacturing. 
The first area reflects the growing use of 
new wireless and autonomous devices 
to manage energy storage systems. The 
second and third areas involve designing 
sustainable materials and processes 
as well as adaptive and autonomous 
materials. The fourth and fifth areas relate 
to manufacturing cycles and sustainability.
Engineering Education for the Future
Engineering programs must adapt to the 
transformations under way in their fields in 
order to prepare students for successful 
careers and for the environmental, ethical 
and privacy issues that will come into 
play as the world becomes increasingly 
interconnected. While engineering 
programs should always provide a strong 
background in the fundamentals, they 
will need to be enhanced with classes in 
computational thinking, complex systems, 
data and network science, energy, 
design and the arts. At STI, we intend to 
raise students’ awareness of the ethical 
issues related to new technology and the 
corresponding societal implications. This will be done, for example, through the team-
oriented design course we give jointly with 
the College of Management of Technology. 
Our students’ educational experience 
will be supplemented with interactive 
online tools and virtual experimentation 
and immersion, requiring new skills-
assessment mechanisms. In parallel, 
we will give students hands-on training 
through basic lab classes and projects 
as well as projects carried out in cross-
disciplinary teams at the new prototyping 
and “maker” spaces at the Discovery 
Learning Laboratories. We will invest in 
attracting talented students at all levels 
and have recently introduced a summer 
internship program for Master’s students 
to bring highly motivated students to our 
campus. We also plan to consolidate the 
number of courses and PhD programs we 
offer to make them more coherent and 
attractive.
Engineering Innovation
STI is a powerhouse of innovation at EPFL, 
accounting for close to 50% of all patents 
submitted by EPFL and close to 50% 
of all EPFL spin-offs. Our joint ventures 
with Swiss and international companies 
continue to thrive, and the size of direct and 
indirect funding from joint R&D projects 
has been rising steadily. Despite these 
positive developments, we still see room 
for expanding our technology transfer and 
joint research efforts, given the vibrant 
innovation ecosystem at EPFL and the 
broader Lake Geneva region. To that end, 
we recently created the new position of 
Associate Dean for Industry and Innovation 
and will begin systematically identifying 
unique technology developed at our 
labs that could either be of interest to an 
existing business or lead to the creation of 
a startup.
We plan to set up mentoring programs with 
our partner businesses and alumni. Our 
alumni in particular constitute an important, 
but largely unexplored resource for our 
59
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan school. We will work with the EPFL Alumni 
Center to better engage with our alumni, 
hold events to showcase our school’s 
developments, and encourage alumni 
to become involved in networking, fund raising and mentoring activities. We will 
also hold workshops and special events 
to promote entrepreneurship among our 
students.
 
9.5.  SV - SCHOOL OF LIFE SCIENCES
MISSION
Research at SV aims to understand 
the fundamental mechanisms of living 
organisms and use this knowledge to 
improve healthcare and medicine and 
serve society in an ethical manner. 
Research, education and innovation at 
our school take place at the crossroads 
of biology, medicine, physics, chemistry, 
engineering, computer science and 
environmental science. We therefore serve 
as a center of excellence for healthcare 
and life science at EPFL. In addition, our 
scientists use quantitative, computational 
and engineering methods to generate, 
interpret and use the vast amounts of 
biological data they collect.  
CHALLENGES
One of the biggest challenges our school 
currently faces is building up expertise 
in three key areas: the analysis and 
integration of large biological data sets; 
the development of predictive models of 
biological systems; and computational 
biology in general. 
In terms of addressing societal challenges, 
we will further our efforts on the following 
fronts: understanding brain function and 
dysfunction linked to diseases and aging; 
understanding the basic mechanisms of 
cancer and metastasis; and understanding 
the importance of metabolism and 
inflammation in these complex diseases. 
Research in these areas will build on our ongoing, blue-sky research on the basic 
mechanisms of life.
While our school has traditionally focused 
on mammalian biology and diseases, 
we plan to expand our research scope to 
include synthetic biology on single-cell 
organisms such as bacteria, yeast and 
algae. This field is highly interesting from 
an educational perspective, especially 
for a school that trains engineers in life 
science. Furthermore, this research could 
help address major societal issues such 
as water decontamination and energy 
production. Finally, research in synthetic 
biology would bring together scientists 
from all EPFL schools, especially in the 
disciplines of chemistry, environmental 
science, engineering and computer 
science.
STRATEGIC RESEARCH AREAS
Neuroscience and neurotechnology  
This is a joint research area with the School 
of Engineering and involves synergies 
with the Blue Brain Project. One of our 
key goals here is to develop a common 
framework spanning neuroscience, 
neurocomputation, neuroengineering 
and neurotechnology. Research in this 
strategic area focuses on the following 
three applications:
1. Motor function and dysfunction: This is 
already an important research topic at 
EPFL and should be expanded to include 
the cerebellum, midbrain and brainstem 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneand oriented towards diseases such as 
Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, spinal muscular 
atrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 
other motor neuron diseases.
2. Cellular and molecular neuroscience: 
While this is likewise already an important 
research topic at our school, it will be 
expanded to include dendritic integration, 
synaptic plasticity, neuromodulation and 
the development of new genetic animal 
models of brain disorders (including 
motor disorders).
3. New neuroscience technology: We are 
working to develop new technology that 
allows scientists to observe brain function 
in greater detail. This technology could 
include advanced methods for in vivo 
imaging, genetically-encoded optical 
sensors and controllers for neuronal 
functions, and advanced computational 
methods that use machine learning to 
analyze experimental data. 
Cancer
EPFL holds a leading position in cancer 
research among Swiss universities. It is 
home to the ISREC Institute, which has 
a long tradition of cancer research, and 
the Institute of Bioengineering, which 
also has cutting-edge capabilities in this 
area. EPFL played an instrumental role in 
setting up the Swiss Cancer Center Leman 
(SCCL), alongside CHUV-UNIL and HUG-
UniGE, and is involved in the new Agora 
Translational Cancer Research Building 
on the CHUV campus. Agora will bring 
cancer scientists and engineers from EPFL 
together with physician-scientists at CHUV 
and enable them to use CHUV’s clinical 
facilities. Under the 2021–2024 strategy, 
our cancer research efforts will focus on 
four objectives:
1.  Deploying EPFL’s cross-disciplinary 
skills and expertise to address cancer 
challenges: We aim to create an 
EPFL-wide research center in cancer science and engineering, which would 
provide a forum for cross-disciplinary 
communication, collaboration and 
innovation in order to gain further insight 
into disease mechanisms. Its research 
would involve developing precision 
diagnostic technology and traceable, 
low-cost early-detection systems. 
We hope to ultimately design new 
protocols for improving the treatment 
of cancer patients, ideally by disrupting 
the adaptive resistance mechanisms 
that limit the length of the therapeutic 
benefits of most cancer drugs.
2.  Anchoring the SCCL as a key player 
in cancer research: We intend to 
maintain EPFL’s important role in the 
SCCL, contributing both leadership 
and cross-disciplinary research 
groups specialized in cancer and 
bioengineering. The SCCL has all 
the elements to be recognized 
internationally as an integrated cancer 
research center – the first ever in 
Switzerland – and EPFL’s continued 
involvement will be crucial to achieving 
that goal. There are only a handful 
of laboratories in the Lake Geneva 
region that are devoted entirely to 
cancer research. EPFL therefore 
provides a strategic critical mass and 
makes a unique contribution through 
its quantitative, cross-disciplinary 
approach to science and engineering.
3.  Expanding our cancer research faculty: 
Cancer research at our school can be 
successful only if we continue to hire 
world-class faculty, both at our main 
campus and at Agora. This issue has 
become particularly pressing following 
the recent departure of four cancer-
research faculty members whose 
international reputation had been a key 
benefit to our school. While ISREC’s 
size is what allowed EPFL to play a 
central role in founding the SCCL, its 
diminishing status portends a decline 
61
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan in our impact at this exciting frontier 
of human medicine. No new faculty 
members have been hired into ISREC 
since 2014, and the institute is facing 
a shortage of tenure-track assistant 
professors. It is therefore essential that 
we hire more of these professors – the 
lifeblood of top universities – in fields at 
the forefront of cancer research, beyond 
the fields already represented at EPFL. 
4.  Introducing a minor in cancer research: 
This minor would teach not only the 
basics of cancer biology but also 
essential concepts in immunology, 
synthetic biology and bioengineering 
in order to prepare students for careers 
in universities, hospitals or the private 
sector.
Computational and Data-Intensive Life 
Sciences (CompBio)
Recent rapid advancements in data-
processing technology are revolutionizing 
all scientific fields. But no field is projected 
to generate as much data as the life 
sciences, surpassing even astronomy. 
From entire genomes and quantitative 
images of cells, organs and organisms, 
to digital data on human diseases, 
behaviors and epidemic spreading, these 
new data bring entirely new challenges 
and opportunities for inspiring, impactful 
discoveries. They have the potential to 
yield the next breakthroughs in all areas 
of biology, including cancer, infectious 
diseases, neuroscience, cell development 
and regeneration, metabolism and 
medicine more broadly. To realize this 
potential, scientists must be able to share 
large-scale confidential medical data, 
and this implies developing effective trust 
protocols. Individuals, institutions and 
nations with the capacity to master these 
data challenges will undeniably have a 
competitive advantage.
Crucially, mastering these challenges 
will require a deep understanding of the scientific problems at hand as well as the 
computational processes needed to solve 
those problems. Cross-disciplinary project 
teams will remain important but cannot 
replace biologists trained in data-driven 
computational analysis. An evaluation of 
SV carried out in 2016 concluded that: 
“Just IC [computer science] joint positions 
are very unlikely to serve SV’s needs; 
much of computational biology requires 
considerable creativity in how to frame 
and manipulate data to generate biological 
insight, but there is little methodological/
algorithm-based research, which is what 
IC-related positions will need.”
As a result, we plan to build up our skills 
in CompBio and anchor this topic in both 
education and research. We believe that 
CompBio provides a framework for life-
science research that is data-driven, 
quantitative, theoretically sound, statistically 
robust and highly innovative. Glimpses into 
how CompBio is starting to shape the future 
of life sciences can be found in the fields of 
quantitative cell and developmental biology, 
single cell biology and genomics, and 
data-driven approaches to human health 
such as digital epidemiology and human-
microbial communities. Therefore we would 
like to transform the EPFL status quo in 
this field through the addition of new chairs 
for emerging and established figures in 
CompBio. At EPFL, we benefit from a crucial 
and almost unique advantage: the close 
physical proximity (i.e., on the same campus) 
of world-class life-science, computer-
science and basic-science facilities. As 
such, we have all the ingredients to create 
an interactive and stimulating environment 
for excellence in CompBio through the 
strategic hiring of key figures in this 
emerging field.
Regarding our degree programs, we intend 
to incorporate CompBio subjects through 
new classes and specific tracks at the 
Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD level. The goal 
will be to train life scientists on all stages 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneof the data-science pipeline, from data 
generation, collection and handling to data 
analysis using new computational methods 
such as those based on machine learning 
and artificial intelligence. This will entail 
building bridges between fundamental 
engineering, in which EPFL excels, and 
cutting-edge computational biology. Life-
sciences graduates with strong skills in 
computational methods and data-intensive 
analyses are in high demand at universities, 
businesses and startups, including many 
of those in the Lake Geneva region. Our 
region attracts more than 70% of the tech 
investment in Switzerland – most of which 
goes to the healthcare industry – and this 
trend will only increase, especially given 
how important life science industries are 
to the Swiss economy. Our graduates 
will thus be well-equipped not only to 
leverage big data for the benefit of modern 
life science, but also to meet the rapidly 
growing demand from industry, helping to 
secure Switzerland’s prominent position in 
the life sciences. Importantly, jobs in biology 
and healthcare attract high percentages of 
female graduates. A strong commitment 
by EPFL in these fields would not only 
strengthen our school and our country’s 
economy, but also help draw more women 
to careers in science and engineering.
In light of how rapidly the life sciences 
are changing in response to big data and 
leaps in computing power, we must act 
swiftly and decisively if we are to prevent a 
strategic weakness from forming at EPFL. 
This was pointed out very clearly in the 2016 
evaluation of SV, warning that: “In some 
research areas the capacity falls short in 
making a significant impact. To remedy this, 
substantial expansion is required in the 
area of computational biology. In the long 
run, probably ten principal investigators will 
be needed in this area.”
Synthetic biology: The engineering of 
living systems
Living systems have an amazing capacity for precision synthesis, manufacturing, 
decomposition and self-reorganization 
into complex structures at different levels 
(molecular, cellular and tissue). In addition, 
biology has become increasingly easy 
to engineer; for example, DNA synthesis, 
even at a genome scale, is within reach. 
There is almost no limit to the potential 
applications of synthetic biology. Some of 
the most promising ones are:
• new frontiers in human medicine: 
engineered cells or cellular assemblies 
that can sense, diagnose, prevent and 
treat diseases, and functional tissues 
for drug discovery and regenerative 
medicine
• new frontiers in manufacturing: 
biological manufacturing systems that 
operate under normal environmental 
conditions, are sustainable, require low 
power and can generate high-value 
products
• bioremediation: engineered organisms 
that can decontaminate water or soil 
of toxic chemicals that cannot be 
removed by existing means
• information technology: data storage 
and processing through DNA encoding 
and protein manipulation.
Synthetic biology is a cross-disciplinary 
field drawing on skills from bioengineering, 
biology, physics, chemistry, materials 
engineering, mechanical engineering, 
electrical engineering, computer science 
and more. Under the 2021–2024 strategy, 
we plan to build on our existing strengths 
(both theoretical and experimental) 
in molecular biology, biophysics and 
quantitative biology to understand and 
manipulate complex living systems. This 
could be carried out through a joint venture 
involving all EPFL schools and would 
require hiring experts in synthetic biology, 
especially for single cell organisms. As 
63
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan an engineering school, EPFL offers an 
excellent environment for education, and the combination of engineering and life-
science skills is in high demand in industry.
9.6.  CDH - COLLEGE OF HUMANITIES
Following the evaluation of our school in 
2017 , we spelled out a new, compelling 
vision for education, research and public 
engagement in the 21st century. To 
implement our vision, we suggested that 
each of those three areas be addressed 
using a holistic approach, called “POLY-
perspectives,” based on the four 
interconnected pillars of interdisciplinarity, 
global awareness, responsible citizenship, 
and creativity. Under the 2021–2024 
strategy, we will further implement our 
vision, and all our efforts – be they in 
terms of education, research or public 
engagement – will directly address at least 
two of these pillars. The goal is to promote 
a holistic view of today’s main societal and 
technological challenges and facilitate 
collaboration among the human and social 
sciences, engineering, life science and 
other fields to build a sustainable future.
EDUCATION
Our primary mission at CDH is to provide 
leading-edge degree programs in the 
human and social sciences at both the 
Bachelor’s and Master’s level. We currently 
offer around 150 courses on a wide range 
of topics, which are taught by some 120 
lecturers who mostly come from the 
University of Lausanne, the University 
of Art and Design Lausanne (ECAL) and 
the Geneva University of Art and Design 
(HEAD). 
Our degree programs are designed to 
help scientists and engineers incorporate 
human and societal factors into their 
work, give them a more comprehensive 
understanding of today’s world, build their awareness about societal issues and add 
leadership skills to their scientific know-
how. 
Under the 2021–2024 strategy, we will 
develop additional Bachelor’s and Master’s 
classes that take an interdisciplinary 
approach to major global topics such 
as big data and society, personalized 
medicine, humans and technology, and 
sustainable development. Some of these 
classes will be taught jointly by professors 
from both engineering and the human 
and social sciences. The classes will also 
impart knowledge and skills in project 
management, legal affairs, research and 
engineering ethics, teamwork and group 
dynamics. This will prepare students to 
address the ethical challenges stemming 
from advancements in science and 
technology and give them a heightened 
sense of social responsibility. 
We will develop prototype classes in the 
human and social sciences through an 
initiative inspired by the Fab Foundation, 
an organization spun out of MIT’s Center 
for Bits & Atoms Fab Lab Program in 
2009. By testing out innovative teaching 
methods, this initiative will allow our 
school to promote the dissemination 
of novel, effective teaching practices in 
our degree programs as well as in other 
interdisciplinary programs at EPFL. 
Finally, we will enhance our Master’s and 
PhD programs in digital humanities by 
forming partnerships with other universities 
in Switzerland and abroad (along the lines of 
our existing partnership with the University 
of Lausanne), taking a strategic approach 
to hiring, offering internships at prestigious 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneinstitutions around the world and setting up 
international summer school programs at 
EPFL.
RESEARCH
The Digital Humanities Institute that we 
created in 2015 has already become one 
of the most famous research centers 
of its kind in Europe, and its scientists 
have obtained prestigious grants (e.g. 
ERC, VolkswagenStiftung and H2020). 
The institute is a good example of the 
interdisciplinary approach taken at EPFL, 
which combines a strong foundation in 
engineering and the social sciences with 
research that goes beyond traditional 
boundaries. 
Under the 2021–2024 strategy, our 
research efforts will focus on:
• exploring new programming languages 
for audiovisual content that allow 
information to be encoded effectively 
and that compile data from different 
types of sources. This research focus 
comes in response to the ubiquity of 
audiovisual media today, with 70% 
of internet traffic made up of videos. 
The research would be conducted in 
association with other EPFL schools, 
ArtLab and the RTS.
• rolling out additional joint projects 
between our two institutes: the Institute 
for Area and Global Studies and the 
Digital Humanities Institute.
• furthering our collaboration with the new 
dhCenter, an interdisciplinaryresearch 
center in digital humanities and digital 
scholarship set up by EPFL and the 
University of Lausanne. In 2019, we 
launched the Lausanne Time Machine 
Project in collaboration with the 
dhCenter. This research program aims at compiling different kinds of data about 
Lausanne’s history – from population 
statistics to maps of urban morphology 
– and use digital technology to analyze 
the data and generate a geo-historic 
platform depicting our city’s growth. 
This program will entail working closely 
with the City of Lausanne and the 
Canton of Vaud, especially with regards 
to innovative methods for teaching 
high-school students about the digital 
humanities.
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
In terms of public engagement – which is 
closely tied to our teaching and research 
activities – our efforts will build on our 
natural role at EPFL to lead citizen initiatives 
such as action-research programs, citizen 
science platforms and public debate on key 
issues such as the impact of digitalization 
on society. We will address two topics in 
particular:
• Philosophy and Technology: Growing 
awareness about how social media 
is affecting democracy, for example, 
or about the importance of climate 
action, reflect the increasingly 
predominant role that technology and 
automated processes are playing in 
how consumers and policymakers get 
their information and, crucially, make 
decisions. At CDH, we intend to play a 
central role in fostering public debate 
on these types of philosophical issues 
arising from recent advancements in 
technology and neuroscience. We will 
also promote teaching and research 
on ethics in science and engineering 
across EPFL. Over the coming 
years, we intend to hire postdocs 
conducting research at the crossroads 
of philosophy and computer science. 
We will also seek to create a new joint 
faculty position in ethics between 
65
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan EPFL and the University of Lausanne in 
response to the findings of an in-depth 
report conducted in 2018 on ethics 
education at the two universities.
• Art-Sciences: We will promote an 
academic vision of the arts that 
combines education, research and 
public engagement. Our ArtLab center 
provides a platform for both EPFL and 
the general public to engage in debate 
about key issues affecting the arts, 
humanities and science. It supports 
the holistic perspective we are taking 
at our school as well as EPFL’s broader 
missions of education, research and 
innovation. Under the 2021–2024 
strategy, ArtLab will further its efforts 
in data archiving, data exchange and 
identity. The center has appointed 
a Scientific Committee and an 
International Advisory Board to ensure 
its programs remain of relevance to 
EPFL and continue to meet world-caliber standards. Two other strategic 
priorities for ArtLab are audience-
building and fundraising, the latter of 
which is actively ongoing; the center 
will also strengthen its brand image 
through a revamped communications 
strategy. ArtLab is involved in a variety 
of joint programs with local and regional 
stakeholders. For example, through its 
seminal Montreux Jazz Archive project, 
the center is showcasing EPFL’s leading 
role in archiving science. ArtLab’s 
Pavilion B serves as an experimental 
platform for exhibitions and debates 
in the humanities, sciences and arts 
for the EPFL community and the public 
at large. We plan to remodel Pavilion 
A (DataSquare) to reflect the cutting-
edge research being done on our 
campus as a whole, while keeping 
space available for timely debates 
and temporary exhibits of important 
innovation projects.
9.7 .  CDM - COLLEGE OF MANAGEMENT OF TECHNOLOGY
MISSION
CDM offers degree programs and conducts 
research in the fields of management, 
economics and finance. Because we are 
housed within EPFL – a school of science 
and engineering – we are able to offer more 
than a “standard” business school is able 
to provide. We aim to position ourselves 
for the future of management education 
by combining the traditional disciplines of 
a business school with the core subjects 
taught at a leading technical university. Our 
three main strategic objectives are to:
•  train tomorrow’s business leaders by 
giving students fundamental skills in 
management, economics and finance 
as well as an intellectual background 
in engineering. This will help EPFL graduates access top management 
positions.
•  conduct fundamental and applied 
research in our core fields, since CDM 
is principally an academic institution 
focused on specific disciplines (and is 
assessed according to our contribution 
to those disciplines).
•  further expand our course offering and 
research to include fields in science 
and engineering. This will enable us to 
fully leverage the opportunities at EPFL 
for synergies and joint R&D. Specific 
subjects we plan to address are 
fintech, innovation analytics, business 
and supply chain analytics, operations 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneresearch, social entrepreneurship, 
sustainable technology management, 
and policy. We will also help develop 
innovative degree programs at the 
crossroads of our core fields and 
science and engineering, at both the 
undergraduate and graduate level.
CHALLENGES
The biggest challenge our school currently 
faces relates to our first objective: sharing 
our knowledge and skills in management, 
economics and finance across EPFL. Here 
the main opportunities lie in revamping our 
existing programs and offering a series of 
Bachelor’s level introductory classes in 
management, economics and finance. This 
would entail only a handful of classes but 
would be a major step forward in achieving 
that objective, delivering benefits not only 
to students wishing to pursue careers 
in one of our fields, but also to all other 
students, as they will gain exposure to 
these important subjects. Setting up these 
classes would require significant additional 
resources.
Another major challenge we face is stepping 
up our research efforts in areas that 
incorporate new technology. This includes 
developing methods, tools and research 
agendas combining computational social 
science with economics – an emerging 
field at the crossroads of data science and 
our core fields.
PRIORITIES
As we strive to meet our objectives, 
we must be careful not to spread our 
resources too thin, which would prevent 
us from delving deeply into any one given 
subject. We should therefore concentrate 
our efforts on our core fields, with programs 
reflecting our many unique strengths – 
finance, innovation, entrepreneurship, operations research, and policy – and how 
they can be applied in response to today’s 
societal and technological challenges. 
More specifically, we intend to develop the 
following areas:
• fintech: conducting research and 
leveraging applications that draw 
on advancements in finance and 
technology
• innovation analytics: taking the 
intellectual lead in developing “big 
indicators” for innovation and studying 
emerging economics and the strategic 
management of artificial intelligence
• business and supply chain analytics 
and operations: developing tools and 
methods that will provide a scientific 
foundation for data-driven decision 
processes, which are being adopted 
rapidly in both the public and private 
sectors
• social entrepreneurship, development 
and sustainable management: 
conducting research and leveraging 
applications that address the key 
societal challenges of our time
• policy: forming a research agenda that 
looks at how technology can serve the 
public interest, which is a central issue 
at a school like EPFL.
IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY
Our 2021–2024 strategy will be 
implemented in the following stages:
1.  Setting up a series of Bachelor’s level 
introductory classes: We have already 
started outlining these classes and 
determined the additional resources 
that could be made available by better 
coordinating and combining existing 
programs. We are also restructuring our 
67
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan executive education program to make 
it more flexible and proactive, and we 
are improving our Master’s programs 
through joint initiatives with the 
School of Engineering and the School 
of Computer and Communication 
Sciences. 
2.  Hiring additional faculty: We will hire 
additional professors in operations 
research, business analytics and 
financial data science in the near 
term, and in finance, innovation, policy, 
development and sustainability later on. 
This, combined with our participation in 
a joint initiative with UNIL and IMD on 
sustainable management, will make us 
better able to carry out our educational 
and research activities.
3.  Further incorporating our research 
into the other science and technology 
research being conducted at EPFL: 
This will include participating more fully in key strategic initiatives (like 
C4DT and complex systems), creating 
a fintech lab, working more closely 
with experts in machine learning and 
big data and consolidating EPFL’s 
activities in social entrepreneurship 
and development (these topics are 
studied in different programs across 
EPFL but without clear coordination or 
academic leadership).
Under the 2021–2024 strategy, we will 
further our research efforts in our core 
fields; begin offering a series of Bachelor’s 
level introductory classes in management, 
economics, and finance; and extend our 
reach across EPFL through initiatives that 
sit at the crossroads of our core fields 
and science and engineering. In short, we 
will continue to build a unique business 
school, of average size but with exceptional 
relevance and impact for a university like 
EPFL. 
9.8. EPFL MIDDLE EAST
Between 2009 and 2020, EPFL Middle 
East worked to establish a solid track 
record of innovation and impact in the 
United Arab Emirates (UAE) in various fields 
pertaining to energy and sustainability. 
The EPFL Middle East campus – entirely 
funded by the local government (at no net 
cost to EPFL or Switzerland) – exemplifies 
the innovation potential of graduate-level 
research and innovation. To date, the 
campus has offered 150 Master’s level 
internships and thesis projects in the UAE, 
with several technology transfers to both 
the public and private sectors. The impact 
of EPFL Middle East can be summarized in 
five key metrics:E
• a ratio of economic return on 
investment higher than 3:1, over less 
than ten years•  over 100 new jobs created in the UAE 
as a result of local technology transfers
•  local carbon abatement that should 
reach over 200,000 tCO2/year by 
2021, in completed and validated or 
pending pojects
•  over 200 scientific peer-reviewed 
publications and conference articles 
(master and PhD level)
•  the training of over 150 engineers in 
energy management and sustainability, 
half of them currently employed in 
the energy sectors of Europe and 
Switzerland.
Under the 2021–2024 strategy (and 
beyond), we will build on these foundations 
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan  École  
polytechnique  
fédérale  
de Lausanneand widen the scope of EPFL Middle East 
by:
• introducing a Master’s in Energy 
Science and Technology program, 
which will involve adding classes in 
energy systems and energy conversion 
devices to the energy management 
and sustainability classes already on 
offer. This program will also support 
the energy transition underway in 
Switzerland.
• adding new research areas and 
their applications in fields such 
as applied digital technology (e.g., 
data science, digital humanities 
and civilian cybersecurity), the 
fundamental sciences and other 
scientific and engineering disciplines 
(e.g., aerospace, infrastructure and 
educational technology). 
• setting up collaborations with the best 
local universities offering Master’s 
programs. We hope to attract many 
of the qualified Emirati students who 
are currently being sent to the US 
or UK for graduate school. As part 
of these efforts, we will expand our 
local internships and Master’s thesis 
projects, extending our impact beyond 
education and into innovation. 
• enhancing our executive education 
programs and developing a regional 
platform for MOOCs and other lifelong 
learning programs, for both alumni and 
other stakeholders.• creating an innovation support program 
to share our know-how in technology 
transfer and entrepreneurship and help 
establish a local innovation ecosystem. 
This ecosystem will in turn support 
EPFL graduates as they transfer their 
ideas to industry or use them to launch 
new businesses. It could also provide 
a gateway for Swiss startups looking to 
penetrate Middle Eastern markets out 
of the UAE.
This strategy is designed to make EPFL 
Middle East an expanded platform for 
innovation and bridge the gap that currently 
exists between local businesses and 
universities. Our funding sources will not 
change relative to 2009–2020, as our 
essential base funding will continue to be 
provided by the local government (Emirate 
of Ras Al Khaimah and Federal UAE Ministry 
of Education). However, as we implement 
this strategy, the Emirati government could 
become interested in further expanding our 
relationship to include exchange programs 
and local investment at the PhD level, such 
as through local research facilities funded, 
and owned by the local government – a 
proposal that we may consider in due 
course.
69
EPFL 2021–2024 Strategic Plan 
