University of Excellence  
LMU will use its funding as University of Excellence for the continuous expansion of its 
position as an international top -level university.  
LMU was funded continuously throughout the Excellence Initiative of the German federal 
and state governments (2005 -2019) in the “Institutional Strategy” funding line. Since 2019, 
the Excellence Initiative has been continued in modified form in the “Excellence Strategy of 
the German federal and state governments to further strengthen cutting -edge research at 
universities ”. In the Excellence Strategy, LMU has successfully been awarded its current 
status as “University of Excellence".  
This long -term funding offers LMU the opportunity to further develop its successful strategy 
from the two previous funding rounds of the Excellence  competitions and expand its position 
as an international top -level university through the long -term strategy program, 
LMUexcellent – A New Perspective.  
LMU’s funding as University of Excellence will be initially provided until 2026 and will be 
continued f ollowing a successful interim evaluation. Within the framework of LMUexcellent, 
LMU offers a broad range of funding opportunities for established researchers as well as 
early -career researchers.  
Overall strategy  
Based on LMU’s research profile , its strategy program LMUexcellent – A New Perspective 
comprises five strategic fields of action guiding a number of measures aimed at  enhancing 
LMU's overall scientific performance:  
• People (attracting the best scientific minds)  
• Campus (developing LMU’s locations driven by research)  
• Investments (creating top -level research infrastructures and framework conditions)  
• Partners (research coll aborations and scientific networks)  
• Governance (science -oriented instruments of decision -making)  
Implementation of all measures is guided by three cross -cutting issues which LMU considers 
to hold extended potential for action and development.  
 
Equal Opportunities and Inclusion   
The LMU community is characterized by the diversity of  the University’s members, from 
teaching and studies to research and administration. LMU values this diversity as a factor of 
success and promotes an environment which encourages all of its members to contribute their 
talents and in which respect, apprecia tion and support are actively practiced. Therefore, equal 
opportunities and inclusion are firmly anchored in LMU's principles of governance. LMU's 
Diversity Management  maintains a broad network of specialized consultation and service 
offers.  
Internationalization   
LMU is an international top -level university. It maintains an extensive network and 
cooperates with renowned partners around the world, at all levels from teaching and studies 
to research and administration. An even stronger orientation towards internationalization in 
research, teaching and studies, the promotion of junior academics, and governance is the 
basis of LMU's long -term development planning.  
Digitalization   
LMU meets the opportunities and challenges of a global digital transformation by 
establishing  promising fields and methodologies of research, e.g. in the fields of artificial 
intelligence or the digital humanities, by developing innovative teaching formats, by 
investing in top -level infrastructure, and by promoting networking activities with outst anding 
cooperation partners – e.g. within the framework of the Bavarian state government’s 
Hightech Agenda Bayern (in German) . 
Core functions  
LMU’s overall strategy is based on the University’s four core functions: research, teaching, 
promotion of junior academics, and societal impact. The measures of LMUexcellent are 
implemented within this framework to increase LMU’s overall sci entific performance.  
• Internationally outstanding research   
• Attractive career paths for junior academics   
• Research -oriented teaching  
• Societal impact and public engagement  
Governance  
It is part of LMU's organizational identity to ensure optimal conditions for research and study 
to its academics and students alike. LM U’s organizational structures in science and 
administration are based on this guiding aim. The University’s governance is thus 
consistently aligned with the quality and steering requirements of its overall strategy as a 
University of Excellence. In this, L MU relies on a balanced mix of top -down and bottom -up 
elements.  
The University has continuously developed its research profile and significantly increased its 
international visibility based on university -wide strategy processes and its participation in the  
German Excellence Competitions.  
Equal opportunities and internationality have been established as guiding principles of 
LMU’s governance and form the basis of the recruitment strategy within LMUexcellent. In 
addition, digitalization represents an importan t cross -cutting issue.  
 
