 2022–2031   
Strategic
PlanA DYNAMIC, INNOVATIVE JOURNEY
2
 2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN
“
Iowa State University  comprises a community of students, faculty, and staff 
who constantly strive to understand our world, impart new knowledge, and solve 
the most pressing challenges facing humanity today. Our identity as a leading science 
and technology land-grant university requires us to think innovatively about strategic 
planning and develop a framework that focuses our future endeavors.
Dynamic and different, the Iowa State University Strategic Plan for 2022 to 2031 
was designed specifically to move us forward to achieving what Iowa State truly 
plans to be in the future. It prepares the university for capturing continuous input, 
for proving our agility in taking advantage of new opportunities and for sharing 
our stories of innovation and progress. That’s why the plan takes a longer view — 
nine years — comprising three-year segments.IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY’S FOCUS ON INNOVATION  
ENLIVENS OUR MISSION, VALUES AND ASPIRATIONS.  
THIS PLAN TO EXCEL INFUSES INNOVATION INTO THE  
ARCHITECTURE OF ISU’S FUTURE.” WENDY WINTERSTEEN, PRESIDENT
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN3Iowa State University will create, share, and apply knowledge  
to make our students, Iowa, and the world better.
 
Iowa State University will advance the land-grant ideals of putting  
science, technology, and human creativity to work. 
Iowa State University embraces the values of our Principles of Community (Respect, 
Purpose, Cooperation, Richness of Diversity, Freedom from Discrimination, Honest 
and Respectful Expression of Ideas), and the values of Access, Excellence, and Integrity.our
our
ourmission
vision
values
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN4Our Statements of Aspiration
Five aspirational statements define what Iowa State University desires to be and 
how the university plans to position itself over the next nine years. These “to be” 
statements will drive an ongoing strategic process of evaluation and investment. 
What Iowa State University wants to be will compel what Iowa State does — to take 
action to move us closer to our aspirations. In nine years, Iowa State University strives:
 
 To be the most student-centric leading research university
 To be the university that cultivates a diverse, equitable, and inclusive  
 environment where students, faculty, and staff flourish
 To be the university that fosters lifelong learning
 To be the university that creates opportunities and forges new frontiers
 To be the trusted partner for proactive and innovative solutions

2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN5
Faculty, Students, StaffValues
Land-grant Foundation
Knowledge and DiscoveryEducation Experience
Community EngagementResearch
Teaching 
Service
Extension
Innovative SolutionsOur Pillars
Four pillars encompass the themes of acknowledged university areas of excellence. These 
strengths are ingrained in the daily work and lives of our faculty, staff, and students, and 
have been proven time and again throughout Iowa State University’s history. Intersected 
and interwoven throughout the pillars are our land-grant university hallmarks of teaching, 
research, service, and extension. Most importantly, the pillars give structure and direction 
on how we make a difference for our state and world in the years ahead. By leveraging 
these strengths, we will make progress fulfilling our “to be” statements.
 
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN6Innovative Solutions.  Innovation, creativity, and an entrepreneurial attitude will  
inspire the curriculum, decision making and outlook for Iowa State University. We will 
bring forth expertise, technologies, novel perspectives, and ideas. By striving to bring  
a creative mindset and unique solutions to the grand challenges of our local and global 
communities, ISU will be recognized for its distinctive approach to environmental, social, 
economic, and cultural sustainability, and meeting the needs of society with integrity.
   
Education Experience.  Promoting an excellent educational experience focused 
on student engagement, knowledge growth, transformative educational opportunities, 
and access to a diverse, inclusive, and welcoming educational environment will  
create a strong foundation for success and prosperity for a well-educated graduate 
with life-long relationships to Iowa State University.
 
Community Engagement.  Through active participation in and partnership with 
the local, state, and global communities, Iowa State University advances its land-grant 
mission to serve society by engaging our stakeholders to understand and address 
their needs and challenges.
 
Knowledge and Discovery.  We will enhance our understanding of our universe 
and ourselves and create and discover new methods, pedagogies, thought processes, 
and knowledge. Through deep analysis, research, and collaboration, we will bring 
forth new technologies, science, perspectives, and ideas to benefit a changing world.
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN7Our Dynamic Process
Built into the nine-year plan is an innovative process to regularly assess where  
we stand, infuse new ideas, and respond to a dynamic state, nation, and world 
landscape. A new Director of Strategic Initiatives will report to the President and 
will oversee our strategic process, which provides a mechanism for input, reflection,  
evaluation, review, and decision-making on investments in strategic projects.  
This dynamic approach that engages both our campus community and external 
stakeholders will facilitate how we thoughtfully work to achieve what we aspire 
“to be.” Our process will gather input that will guide planning, prioritization,  
evaluation, and measurement of success on an annual basis throughout the strategic  
plan. Strategic project ideas will be solicited and evaluated based on how they 
align with the university’s priorities, thematic pillars, “to be” statements, and 
success factors.  Progress and successes will be communicated to the Iowa State 
stakeholders, where input will be gathered, and the process repeats anew.
Input Proposals ReviewSuccess  
StoriesStrategic Process for Success
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN8Our Success Factors
Tracking progress on our “to be” statements will involve measuring success factors 
for each and creating consonance with university investment strategies. For each 
statement, the university will track metrics that align with the broader priorities and 
specific objectives in the Iowa Board of Regents’ 2022-2027 Strategic Plan, as well 
as success factors unique to the programs at Iowa State. A table of specific goals 
and metrics is found in Appendix 1.
 
A. TO BE THE MOST STUDENT-CENTRIC LEADING RESEARCH UNIVERSITY.
 
A.1 Retention and graduation rates
Iowa State will monitor graduation and retention rates for our students, with goals 
to increase first to second year retention for all students and to close the gaps of 
graduation rates for traditionally underrepresented students.
 
A.2 Students participate in high-impact practices
The education experiences of our students will be enhanced by expanding and 
tracking access to high-impact practices and increasing the access to and  
participation in those practices by all students.
 

2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN9A.3 Accessibility and affordability
Accessibility and affordability will be monitored by tracking the average student 
loan debt and the percent of students who graduate with debt. Increasing  
accessibility for low-income families will be achieved by increasing scholarship 
funding through proactive fundraising. Tactical tools such as increasing the use  
of open educational resources and completion grants will be evaluated.
 
B. TO BE THE UNIVERSITY THAT CULTIVATES A DIVERSE, EQUITABLE, AND  
INCLUSIVE ENVIRONMENT WHERE STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF FLOURISH.
 
B.1 Faculty, staff, and student demographics: Access to excellence
Aligned with A.1, the university will take action to recruit a diverse student body and 
track and examine demographic gaps. The university also will take actions to recruit 
and retain a diverse faculty and staff, and track and examine demographic gaps.
 
B.2 Faculty, staff, and student retention: Success
Aligned with A.1, the university will monitor student, staff, and faculty demographics, 
develop professional training and development programs for employee career  
advancement, promote safe and inclusive learning and working spaces, and attract 
and retain world-class faculty and staff. Specifically, gaps in one-year retention rates 
for underrepresented students will be monitored with a goal to reduce the gap by 40%.
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN10B.3 Campus climate
The university will regularly assess and report on the campus climate for different 
populations in our campus community through regular surveys and other relevant 
tools. In addition, long-standing participation in the COACHE survey to assess faculty 
well-being will continue.
 
B.4 Faculty/staff salaries
Faculty salaries will continue to be tracked and compared to peers. Staff salaries will 
be reviewed through conventional market-based benchmarks through University 
Human Resources.
  
C. TO BE THE UNIVERSITY THAT FOSTERS LIFELONG LEARNING.
 
C.1 Expand online learning environment
Iowa State will deliberately expand online programs to meet student, industry, 
and state needs in partnership with our strategic industry partners and our  
community partners statewide. The goal is to increase online enrollment by  
30% and develop new degrees or credentials to meet workforce needs.
 

2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN11C.2 Learning across Iowa
As a commitment to service to Iowans and our Community Engagement thematic 
pillar, Iowa State will continue to monitor and enhance its learning opportunities 
across the state by tracking and reporting outcomes of our Extension and Outreach, 
continuing education, and professional development programs, and growing  
access to those programs in underserved communities.
 
C.3 Continued learning by ISU graduates
Complementing the online, C.1, and extension education, C.2, efforts, Iowa State 
will track continuing education needs and opportunities for alumni, early engagement 
of pre-baccalaureate students, and certificate/badging participation of nondegree 
seeking professionals.
 
C.4 Engaging new students/student pipelines
Iowa State students, past, present, and future, expect excellence and innovation 
in their education experiences. New student pipelines will be created as programs 
expand to meet demand. 
 
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN12C.5 Enhancing ISU human capital through career development
Enabling our campus community to flourish with lifelong learning and professional 
development for faculty and staff will be regularly assessed, and new opportunities 
will be developed.
 
D. TO BE THE UNIVERSITY THAT CREATES OPPORTUNITIES  
AND FORGES NEW FRONTIERS.
 
D.1 Innovation in curriculum
Iowa State is committed to providing innovations in the classroom, studio, laboratory, 
or field, whether in person or through other delivery mechanisms. Iowa State will 
develop new curricula, expand entrepreneurship opportunities, and extend the  
impact of research.
 
D.2 Innovation and entrepreneurship
Knowledge and discovery feed the innovations that lead to solutions for global  
challenges. Faculty and students will be encouraged to participate in innovation  
and entrepreneurship, and student enrollment will be tracked.
 
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN13D.3 Research impact
Research funding is one metric for gauging impact; targets include increasing  
research expenditures by 3% per year. Iowa State also measures research impact 
by tracking new intellectual property disclosures, patents filed, and licensing  
revenues that are generated annually.
 
D.4 Organizational excellence
Organizational excellence will be met through the university’s capital planning process, 
assessment of stakeholder engagements for improvement, and reprioritization of 
efforts based on the annual input process built into the strategic plan.
 
E. TO BE THE TRUSTED PARTNER FOR PROACTIVE AND INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS.
 
E.1 Collaborative research initiatives
Iowa State will monitor and report on collaborative and large-grant funding growth, 
industry partner expansion, the engagement with external partners and our core 
research facilities, and the key partnerships built in each Iowa county through  
Extension and Outreach offices.
 

2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN14E.2 Impact of partnerships
Iowa State prides itself on its partnerships, whether through the engagement  of communities across Iowa through Extension and Outreach, engagement of  industries in our region, or through collaborations formed with Ames Laboratory, the Regents’ universities, and other researchers around the globe. Iowa State  will grow its industry-funded projects and its strategic partners. Innovative  solutions for industry partners also include current and future workforce  development through education experiences and expanding our partnerships  in the Iowa State University Research Park and through our other economic  development programs. 
2022—2031 STRATEGIC PLAN
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, 
ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. Veteran. 
Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to the Office of 
Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011,  
Tel. 515-294-7612,  Hotline: 515-294-1222, email eooffice@iastate.edu.
