Strategic  plan 2017  ‒2026 f or Lund University  
 
Lund University was founded in 1666 and has long been a centre of culture and 
learning . Deeply marked by history, the University –which is currently also 
present in Malmö, Helsingborg and Ljungbyhed – affects the development of the 
city and the region to a large extent . We are now entering a new ten -year period 
in which to meet the challeng es and opportunities of the future . 
 
We are proud of the University’s high quality and its prominent position both  
nationally and internationally . High-class research and education are conducted 
here, reinforced by qualified support functions . The University offers cultural 
activities and public events of various kinds . We also have many cooperation 
partners regionally, nationally and international ly. 
 
In 2026 , our University is to be even more attractive and a beacon of light . We 
shall achieve this by being an open and creative University in which people meet 
and grow, and where future knowledge takes shape . 
 
The students are without a doubt our University’s greatest success factor .  
It is therefore crucial for our future position that our students receive a good 
education closely linked to active research environments . In 2026, Lund 
University shall therefore be an attractive learning and research environment , to 
which students and staff are keen to apply both from Sweden and abroad . The 
interweaving of research and education is to characterise our learning  
environments and, combined with systematic academic de velopment work, is to 
guarantee high quality . 
 
In 2026, we shall also truly be a broad University which has exploited the full  
potential of its rich range of research subjects . By that time, we shall a lso have 
reinforced and deepened our cooperation with w ider society . Above all, we shall 
have developed a quality -enhancing academic culture for both education and 
research . Our global commitment and our international spirit in all our activities 
are to be well recognised. We will also have made the most of th e leverage 
potential of our spectrum of valuable assets . These include everything from rich 
cultural activit ies to new opportunities offered by MAX IV and our proximity to  
ESS, along with gender equality, diversity, a good work environment and ethical  
awar eness . 
 
In 2026, our University is the place for creative freedom where risk -taking and 
persistence can lead to un expected breakthroughs . We provide plenty of space 
and trust to our staff and emphasis e employee excellence as a success factor .  
We develop critical questioning and provide time for afterthought . In this way, we 
create a coherent culture of qual ity with collegial management and ethical 
awareness, making us into a global knowledge model . In order to achieve this 
high ambition by 2026, we must r esponsibly take initiatives for development and 
make clear and active choices . The ability of leaders and managers at different 
levels to prioritise with clarity and integrity is crucial  
. 
The strategic plan identifies choices which lead to this position  up to 2026.  
The level of ambition is high. Our vision is to be a model for others in the way in 
which we generate and transfer knowledge . We are all involved and we all take 
part in our task to understand, explain and improve our world and the hu man 
conditi on through education, research and external engagement . 
 
This plan is to be converted into strategic plans for the faculties and other units 
within the University.  The various strategies are also to be transferred to concrete 
goals in the annua l plans  of operations . In this way, the strategic plan will become 
concrete and clear . Checks and follow -up of the way in which the plan has been 
implemented by the various units within the University are to take place at the 
latest by 2019. Later on, halfway through the plan’s period of validity in  
2021, a comprehensive evaluation shall be conducted to enable revision . 
 
Lund Universit y’s core values  
Our shared core values are based on the Magna Charta Universitatum  
to indicate that w e are part of the global university community .  
This entails responsible autonomy  and academi c freedom  – that we are free from 
pressure from wider society and that we safeguard the freedom, integrity and  
quality of education and research and their  inseparability . 
Our core values are also based on the work carried out by the government  
council on basic  values .  
This entails demo cracy, legalit y, obje ctivity, freedom of opinion , respe ct for 
everyone’s equal value  and efficiency and service .  
Through these basic values, we stand clearly for the values that are expressed in 
documents such as the UN declaration on human rights . 
We also have basic values which have characterised our University for a long 
time: critical thinking , creativit y, factualness , curiosity , commit ment, compassion  
and humour  based on self -awareness . These collective core values are a 
foundation of our University and crucial for successful development and thereby 
for the implementation of the strategic plan . 
 
Our vision  
Lund Universit y is a model for how future knowledge is  
generated and passed on   
 
The path toward the vision is our task  
 
To understand, explain and improve our world and the human condition  
through education, research, external engagement and artistic activity  
 
During 2017 ‒2026 we will highlight five goals  
1. Education and researc h are to maintain high quality and be 
interwoven  
Education and research are the core activities at our University and are to 
maintain such a high quality that we can serve as an example to others .  
Achieving this requires increased awareness of the University’s identit y and 
active quality  enhancement . A crucial quality issue is that education and  
research are interwoven . The interweaving of education and research is therefore 
to be one our University ’s characteristics . Education and research of the quality 
to which we aspire must also be matched by a quality -driven support organisation 
and infrastructure and be gove rned by academic principles . 
• Our education and research are to be of high quality, ac ademically driven and 
evaluated continuously. They are to be performed with adequate infrastructure 
and support.  
• Our education and research are to be interwoven in  learning environments that 
include  both education  and research, where students connect with research, and 
where researchers and research students participate in undergraduate  education 
as well as research.  
• Our courses and study programmes are to cons istently maintain high quality in 
terms of both our subjects and teaching  methods . The learning shall be up to 
date and place high demands on the students . Innovative teaching that improves 
the quality is to be encouraged . 
• Our research is to be of high quality and shall be  both basic and applied. It is to 
be conducted in dynamic, well -organis ed and well -funded environments , and be  
ethically supported. It is to allow risk-taking, critical thinking and reflection.  
 
2. Collaboration and external engagement is to permeate our University  
Our University is characteris ed by a wide range of faculties and  a multitude of 
disciplines and researc h areas. Proper ly utilising this breadth and collaborating 
across borders gives us good conditions for carrying out our task . This is where 
we have a real opportunity to  make a difference. Our breadth also gives us 
special conditions to address  many of the issues and challenges  of the future , as 
described in, for example , the UN  Sustainab le Development Goals  and Agenda 
2030. It is therefore important to develop and encourage active engagement with 
wider so ciety, including the public sector, cultur e, social life  and industry.  
• Boundary -crossing and interdisciplinary co llaboration within our University and 
with other higher education i nstitutions is to be encouraged. New areas of  
collaboration are to be developed in both education and research. Barriers to 
cooperation are to be identified and eliminated.  
• Our University is to take greater social responsibility, promot e interaction and  
the benefits  of our education and research – regionally, nationally and 
internationally – by utilising our ability to meet future societal challenges.  
• We are to  increase our knowledge of  entrepreneurial application of research 
results, and actively p articipate  in the regional and national innovation system.  
• Active and live int eraction with alumni and friends of the University is to be 
further developed for the benefit of education, research and sustainable funding . 
 
3. Our education and research is to have an international spirit  
An international spirit is crucial in order for us to operate  and make a difference in 
an increasingly global ised world. This requires an  increased global com mitment 
and an awareness of the international dimension within each organisation . 
• Our University is to be permeated by an international spirit and a global 
commitment.  
• We are to encourage increased international mobility for students and staff.  
• Our international collaborations with universities and other partners are to be 
established strategically.  
• Collaboration with universities and partners in the Öresund region are to be 
vitalis ed. 
• The University is to be a driving force in various international networks, such as 
LERU and U21, as well as in other key forums , including EU and UN bodies. 
 
4. We are  to develop our leadership and offer an attractive environment  
Our success and high quality are based on the efforts of our dedicated and  
competent students and staff. In order to attract and retain these talent s, the 
University must therefore offe r an attractive and stimulating environment.  
An attractive environment is also important  to enable creative freedom, which is  
a condition for achieving breakthrough s and creat ing and communicat ing 
knowledge of the future. This places  great demands on our leaders and 
managers. The y are to take initiative concerning the University ’s development 
and necessary  changes in a transparen t, clear and confiden t way, and support 
the realis ation of  successful learning enviro nments. We also become more 
attractive by ensuring that resources are in place and are utilised properly. Other 
important conditions to ensure high quality in an attractive environment  are 
conscious, consistent and long -term efforts to implement sustainable measur es, 
for instance with regard to gender equality, a good working environment and 
ethical awareness , as well as increased visibility and a ccessibility to our  
activities, for example, through  Open Access.  
• Our University is to be led by employees who take lea dership responsibilities at 
different levels. Leaders and managers at all levels are to have the skills and 
abilities necessary to lead. They are to reflect on their assignment, receive  
sufficient  support and be capable of prioriti sing and implementing changes  in 
order to develop the o rganisation and its quality. The management structure and  
collegial form of governance is to be developed . 
• Our University is to be at the forefront in terms of good study  environment , 
active student life and clear student infl uence.  
• We are to promote and develop an active and responsible sense of teamwork, 
permeated by the fact that we are one University, with a common goal , in which 
every employee has an important task.  
• We are to  ensure clear career paths and work strategicall y with recruitment.  
• We are to  work to obtain long-term sustainable funding , so that good resources 
and infrastructure  for education and research are secured . 
• We are to  take a  leading position in the digit alisation of education and research.  
• We are to  develop our role as a bearer of culture.  
• We are to  distinguish ourselves for having  good ethics and probity, a high level 
of gender equality, a good work  environment, strong  environmental awareness, 
and the abilit y to ensure  equal opportunities for both students and staff. 
• We are to become more visible in the academic  community, in public debate s 
and in cultural life. 
• We are to  further develop an attractive campu s and, in co llaboration  with 
regional and local authorities,  continue to develop Lund, Malmö and Helsingborg  
into sustainable  and attractive cities of knowledge . 
 
5. MAX IV and ESS are to be leverage potential for our University  
MAX IV is part of Lund University, and together with its proximity to the European  
facility ESS , this creates a great development opportunity for us. These facilities  
are therefore to become a natu ral part of our education and research , while the 
activities we do that do not directly come in to contact with them are given the 
opportunity to develop to the same degree , so that our broad University is  
strengthened . We are also to be a driving force for  the facilities themselves, as 
well as in the continued development of Science Village Scandinavia . 
• We are to develop our education and research at MAX IV and ESS through  
recruitment, graduate schools, professiona l development, information, etc.  
• Collaboration within the University and with other higher education institutions, 
the public sector and industry in relation to MAX IV and ESS is to be 
strengthened  – regionally, nationally and internationally. We are  to serve as hub 
for national and inter national collaborations involved in the facilities.  
•We are to support the development of Science Village Scandinavia as a place 
where research, education and entrepreneurship can m eet. 
 
