LUT University About us Introducing the University StrategyEN Search
Scientiﬁc solutions – System Earth
Clean ener gy, water and air ar e life-giving r esour ces for which we at L UT University seek ne w
solutions with our e xpertise in technology, business and social sciences. W e help society and
businesses in their sustainable r ene wal. Our international community consists of nearly 8 000
members. Our campuses ar e in Lappeenr anta and Lahti, Finland. W e ar e one of the top uni -
versities in the world for climate action.STRATEGY
Str ategy 2030: T railblazers – Science with a Purpose.
Science with a Purpose
Air – From emissions to opportunities
Defining air quality, emissions and climate impacts and ne w technology to turn emis -
sions into pr oducts
READ MORE
Energy transition to a carbon-neutral world
We solve global climate pr oblems with our technology and business r esear ch. W e use
water and air to pr oduce e-fuels and pr otein.
READ MORE
Business and society – Sustainable renewal of business, industry and society
Driving sustainable gr owth, cr eating value in a digital economy and advanced design,
manufacturing and pr ocessing
READ MORE
Water – Complex water adequacy and water treatment needs
Resour ce r eco very fr om waste water and r esponding to comple x water tr eatment needs
READ MORE
Our action plans for 2025
ValuesSignificant r esear ch player in Eur ope
Rene wer of companies and society
Open, dynamic and active inter cultur al campuses
Cour age  to succeed
Passion for inno vation thr ough science
If the video doesn't display pr operly, you can also watch it her e: T RAILBLAZERS – Science with
a purpose – L UT University Str ategy 2030  
Sustainable development and responsibilityWill  to build well-being
🚀 TRAILBL AZERS - Science with a Purpose - L UT Univ ersity Str ategy 2030 🚀 TRAILBL AZERS - Science with a Purpose - L UT Univ ersity Str ategy 2030
Campuses of L UT University
Lappeenr anta Campus
Yliopistonkatu 34
53850 Lappeenr anta, Finland
Tel. +358 29 446 2111 
 
Lahti Campus
Mukkulankatu 19
15210 Lahti, Finland
Tel. +358 29 446 2111
Regional units
LUT Mikk eli
LUT Kouvola
Contact us
Billing information
LUT car eersLUT University pr omotes sustainable de velopment. Our str ategic choices, scientific r e-
sear ch, academic education and social inter action ar e all guided b y the principles of ecolog -
ical, economic and social sustainability.
READ MORE
    
Data pr otection
Accessibility
The eL UT Student Portal
For the staff
Privacy settings
