CONTENTS
1. Twenty Years of Growth and Achievement: A Review..
2. Challenges & Opportunities..
2.1 Disruptive Scientific/Technological Advances
2.2 Intense Competition for Talent
2.3 Complex Global Changes.
2.4 Demands of National Development Strategies.
2.5 New Development Trends of Macao.
3. Vision.
3.1 Mission.
3.2 Vision.
3.3 Core Values
4. Objectives & Strategies.
4.1 Teaching & Learning.
4.2 Research Innovation & Cooperation..
4.3 Internationalization and Diversification
4.4 Integrating into the Greater Bay Area, Serving the Country
 4.5 Sustainable Development...

'Dedication to Practical Studies, Enhancement of
Knowledge, Ability and Quality'
In the Pursuit of Excellence
Macau University of Science and Technology
Strategic Plan
(2021-2025)
With dedication and sincerity of purpose, we explore the world; with enhancement of
knowledge, ability and quality and the pursuit of excellence, we create the future. Macau University of Science and Technology has been steadfast in the pursuit of excellence in education, research and innovation. It has been adhering to the philosophy of multi-culturalism, openness, diversity and internationalization. Upholding our motto, "Dedication to Practical Studies, Enhancement of Knowledge, Ability and Quality," the University is committed to the nurturing of talents with integrity, resilience, social responsibility and commitment; it is dedicated to exemplary scholarship and broad-based collaboration; above all, it is arduous in its service to Macao, national development and human progress. MUST is unswerving in its determination to foster peace and social harmony.



1. Twenty Years of Growth and Achievement: A Review
Founded in 2000 with the support of the Central Government and the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) Government, Macau University of Science and Technology has developed from a firm foundation of strong visionary leadership and flexible, effective resource management and operation. Two decades of growth have witnessed noticeable achievements: with its overall competitiveness and global impact steadily on the rise, MUST has been widely recognized as the most successful private university in the Cross Straits-Hong Kong-Macao region. It has gained wider recognition in international standing, now ranked among the Top 300 in 2021 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. MUST is the most comprehensive, research-led and innovation-driven university in Macao today. The University offers a wide range of courses and programs with particular strengths and characteristics, in the areas of science and engineering, Chinese Medicine, law, business and management, medicine, arts and humanities. and Hospitality and Tourism. Its Whole Person Education program has been an exemplary model of undergraduate education. In the years since its inception, the quality of student intake of MUST has been on the rise, and its student body has grown considerably. On the research front, the past decade has seen a steady increase in high quality research output along with enhancement in the strength of the faculty. Campus infrastructure and management has been continually automated for better efficiency. The University has responded proactively to the challenges brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. The University has been expanding the scope of its international collaboration, and embarked on a range of initiatives for the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. It has been active in promoting Macao's progress and in the integration of the Special Administrative Region into national development. As we move ahead, we are also cognizant of our shortfalls and limitations when compared with top universities in the world. In striving for excellence, we have identified the following areas for strategic development: diversity of academic programs, faculty development, research capability, educational autonomy and internationalization.
2. Challenges & Opportunities
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about global changes in the normal operations of teaching and learning in higher education, accentuating the significance of innovation and transformation. As the prevention and control of the pandemic becomes normalized, the University will be confronted with unprecedented challenges as well as opportunities for rapid and substantive development.
2.1 Disruptive Scientific/Technological Advances
The rapid convergence of combinatorial technology has generated transformational changes in traditional higher education. Artificial intelligence, big data, new energy, new materials and biotechnology have been impacting the whole world in significant and far- reaching ways. The University is thus staunchly committed to innovative models of teaching, state-of-the-art research environment and management, as well as futuristic campus planning for the purpose of sustainable development to enhance academic excellence and inter-disciplinary research capability.



2.2 Intense Competition for Talent
The popularization of higher education and the acute demand for quality education have opened up opportunities for the University. Facing increasingly intense global competition for academic talent, it is imperative for the university to not only expand and diversify the student body and attract high-calibre students, but also recruit talents in teaching, research and management on a wide scale from across the world so as to enhance its overall competitiveness.
2.3 Complex Global Changes
At the cross-roads of the East and West, amidst a rather complex and fast-changing international context, the University is in a unique position to act as a conduit of pluralism and diversity through its research and scholarship.
2.4 Demands of National Development Strategies
The development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) and the regional cooperation of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao provide the University with opportunities to play a greater role in the implementation of the GBA and other national development strategies. The University will not only devise an overall strategy for its engagement in the GBA development, but also design new academic programs to achieve the overall improvement and innovative development of the University.


2.5 New Development Trends of Macao
Commensurate with multi-cultural development of Macao, the University will develop in consonance with the Outline on the Mid- and Long-Term Development Plan of Macao's Higher Education (2021-2030), seize the opportunity of regional cooperation, promote innovative research and industrial development, elevate standards and broaden its scope, augment talent and enhance national identity. We strive to be the vanguard of Macao's higher education and a key driving force contributing to Macao's progress.
3. Vision
3.1 Mission
"To promote cultural exchange, nurture talents, foster economic development and further societal progress".
3.2 Vision
The University will continue to uphold the University motto, "Dedication to Practical Studies, Enhancement of Knowledge, Ability and Quality", adhere to the University mission and core values, persevere in innovative research and strive for excellence for the purpose of enhancing the University as a culturally diverse and globally renowned private university in Asia, embracing the values of being open, inclusive, and socially responsible. We aspire to be the university of choice for students and the top academic talents from mainland China and overseas. It is dedicated to serve Macao and the GBA in innovation and technology development.
3.3 Core Values
The pursuit of excellence, innovation, multi-culturalism, openness and inclusiveness, internationalization and social responsibility constitutes the core values of the University.
4. Objectives & Strategies
4.1 Teaching & Learning
4.1.1 New technologies will be employed to implement the university's educational philosophy, formulate new models of teaching and learning, expedite the establishment of a "learner-cantered" teaching and learning environment which is open, flexible, practical and engaging, improve student awareness of self-directed learning, enhance their capability in independent learning, and support the effective improvement of teaching & learning;
4.1.2 Student and faculty review will be utilized to optimize the organizational structure, reform teaching and learning, steer the system towards an innovation-based teaching and learning environment for the sustainability of relevant resources and the optimization of teaching and learning outcomes;
4.1.3 On the concrete conceptual perspective of continuous improvement, learning and practice will be complementary, while the General Education will be fine-tuned to coordinate with the specialized subjects for the cultivation of student creativity, analytical ability and problem-solving skills;
4.1.4 •Innoovation, entrepreneurship and creativity' will be added to the teaching and learning process to enable students to engage in innovative and entrepreneurial ventures, scientific research and other academic undertaking, impress upon students the significance of extracurricular activities in that they would apply international standards of innovation and entrepreneurship to apply their skills and, above all, nurture new talents with interdisciplinary training; 4.1.5 In-depth analysis will be conducted to ascertain the desirable attributes of a graduate of the University, while the faculty will be directed to conduct their teaching in congruence with the guidelines set down by the University for the education of well-rounded graduates; 4.1.6 New initiative for degree programs will continue to be launched; new programs to be planned and developed, including new academic programs in engineering and in humanities — aiming at ensuring the implementation of strategic initiatives in the preparation for the establishment of faculties and institutes and post-graduate programs, in line with the University's development goal and its plans for cultivating talents; 4.1.7 The tutoring scheme, STEAM, will be formulated as a dynamic force in higher education in Macao and the GBA. The University will develop a multi-faceted education curriculum, in order to nurture a new generation of post-graduate students who are able to perform state-of-the-art research and possess an interdisciplinary outlook. 
4.2 Research Innovation & Cooperation 
4.2.1 The forces driving the University forward are its conviction in respecting academic 
freedom, its commitment to social responsibility, and its adherence to professional ethics, all of which will be embedded in the University's pursuit of innovation, interdisciplinary studies and quality international collaborative research; 4.2.2 The academic culture of the University will be enriched and enhanced: to rationalize its management structure, standardize a fair and transparent system of resource allocation, bolster research innovation and scholarly studies, and encourage high-calibre research of international renown and societal benefit; 4.2.3 Effective use of resources to promote the synergetic development of research centres; existing mean of excellence will be developed into world class platforms of frontier science and technology; 4.2.4 The collaboration with mainland and international network will be expanded while the scope and depth of research and academic activities will be magnified; 4.2.5 The University will focus on the enhancement of institutional planning, directing faculties and research institutes to formulate clear development goals, integrate resources, identify strengths, develop new insights and scale new heights through multi-lateral collaboration, and establish signature laboratories at all levels. 4.2.6 The University will develop new platforms for securing external research funding and enhance commemialtration capability of research output; 4.2.7 An effective system of research capability, patent authorization, instruction in intellectual property, rights and logistical operation will be established. The study and structural organization of the protection of the intellectual property rights of all research outcome will be institutionalized. 
4.3 Internationalization and Diversification 
4.3.1 The University will elevate international reputation through the formulation and implementation of a strategy for the promotion of the University Brand; 4.3.2 The University's overall internationalization strategy will be developed by significantly enhancing collaboration with international partners, academic exchange and research innovation networks; 4.3.3 Internationalization and multi-culturalism will be consistently emphasized in teaching and learning, innovative research and the grooming of talents. Faculty and students will be incentivized to participate proactively in academic exchanges, research collaboration and knowledge contests regionally and internationally; 4.3.4 The University is committed to actively solicit expert advice, suggestions and recommendations from academic institutions and related organizations across the world; 4.3.5 The University will participate in full-scale international institutional accreditation exercises conducted by prominent, independent accreditation agencies, for the professional confirmation of academic and operational standards and for the University's unflagging focus on improvement and excellence; 4.3.6 Sufficient resources will be allocated to create opportunities for academic study and exchange abroad to broaden the horizon of both faculty and students, enrich their work and study experience; 4.3.7 The University will capitalize on Macao's long and unique history of East-West encounters, as well as its rich cultural heritage, in support of the national strategy for internationalization. 

4.4 Integrating into the Greater Bay Area, Serving the Country 
4.4.1 As a private university, MUST has always stood at the forefront of higher education reform, tirelessly piloting new, efficient educational models which serve the society with its roots in Macao, its role in developing the GBA and its devotion to serving the country; 4.4.2 The intimate and elaborate social and cultural connections between Macao and the GBA are valued by the University which will readily offer its services to the growth of the GBA and to the implementation of the country's Belt-and-Road Initiative; 4.4.3 MUST will explore the development model, 'One Institution, Two Systems, and Three Campuses,' under the same brand by formulating specific development plans and pathways for implementation; 4.4.4 Policy research projects will be expanded to provide timely and effective professional advice for Macao's development and GSA's growth to support governmental policy-making with research outcomes and recommendations from high-rank think-tad.; 4.4.5 MUST will expedite the establishment of a range of research institutes in the GBA to foster technological innovation in the GBA, especially on the west coast of the Pearl River; and these institutes are expected to collaborate to forge an innovation-friendly ecology in the GSA; 4.4.6 The University sees as its social responsibility to dedicate itself to the comprehensive improvement of Macao and the GBA, by contributing to their social development and economic growth, and by nurturing creative professionals with a global perspective; 4.4.7 MUST will establish close ties with other neighboring higher education institutions 


in the GBA to pursue collaboration with a jointly formulated force that is
advantageous, complementary and mutually beneficial.
4.5 Sustainable Development
4.5.1 It is visionized to establish a private university of international calibre with an organizational structure and management system which are coterminous with international standard, thereby ensuring rational administration and effective use of resources to foster a stable and sustainable growth of the University;
4.5.2 We will diversify the University's sources of revenue through raising donations and
investment from alumni and different sectors of the society;
4.5.3 The next five years will witness a campaign to raise the awareness of the University motto, shape and reinforce a shared campus spirit and culture, explore ways of realizing the 'MUST Spirit,' cultivate a campus atmosphere wherein faculty, staff and students arduously participate in the sustainable growth of the University, and motivate the faculty, staff and students to be creative and high-minded towards culture, society and the world, so that they themselves may achieve personal excellence and distinction in the society they live in;
4.5.4 A blueprint for the nurturing of excellence will be worked out and implemented. A scheme of 'endowed professorship' will be instituted to attract prominent scholars
from other parts of the nation and overseas, to build a critical mass of research distinction;
4.5.5 A low-carbon, green, intelligence-based campus will be established. Information
technology infrastructure and data security will be upgraded, while the smart campus
project, We Must, the digitalization transformation of the University and smart intelligence upgrade will continue to advance, and these will all integrate into
innovation to improve the support capacity of overall campus services;
4.5.6 An exquisite channel of communication with society will be optimized. Views and advice will be solicited with propitious timing; amicable relationships will continue to be maintained with all stakeholders. Relationship with the government, mainland and foreign universities, professional societies and the alumni association will be fortified to elevate the impact and reputation of the University and escalate cooperation;
4.5.7 The University prioritizes 'social responsibility.' Its members should conduct
themselves ethically. Through the nurturing of talents, innovative research and transformation of research outcome, public policy analysis and social services, MUST is passionately dedicated to fulfil its promises to society.