STRATEGIC PLAN 
2023 -2027A Leading International 
Liberal Arts College
version 22 December 2022 
Message from the Dean
Prof. Chulathida Chomchai, MD
Dean of Mahidol University International CollegeThe ideal mix of arts and science, 
business and creativity, inclusiveness 
and diversity is what makes a student’s 
time at MUIC a time for growing and 
flourishing; to become the best version 
ofoneself. Cultivating liberal arts 
graduates whose core value is rooted in 
empathy and inter -culturalism will allow 
these individuals to become professionals,
entrepreneurs, innovators, members of 
society who make significant and 
positive impact in their own lives and 
lives of those around them, be it at 
home, at work, or in their community. 
Another words, they are truly citizens of 
the world.
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
Inpresent -day society, young people are 
faced with a myriad of challenges which 
demand that they possess a new kind of 
creativity; that ability to master the 
knowledge and skills of a specific subject 
or discipline, coupled with the agility to 
adapt and transform that proficiency so 
that it becomes applicable and relevant 
in this rapidly changing world.
Contents
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -202701
02
03
Project Overview, Approach 
and Key Learnings 
2023 –2027 MUIC 
Vision, Mission, Goals and Strategies
Mobilisation and Activation 
Roadmap

Introduction
Aswehave seen inthe recent years, the internal and external environment has changed
radically due toimportant factors that arethecatalyst fortransformative change, such asthe
impact ofthe COVID -19pandemic, volatile economic conditions, etc.These changes and a
modernist perspective onfuture educational styles, pose both challenges and opportunities for
MUIC .
Started inApril 2022 ,theExecutive team hasbeen reviewing, redeveloping and revising Vision,
Mission and Goals inbuilding the competitiveness ofour organization .Byfollowing these
steps :
ReflectSharing the organization’s and individual greatest accomplishments
intheprevious years
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
Revisit the Vision and Mission and ask aquestion “What isthe
picture ofthe organization inthe next 4years”? What kind of
environment weshould create toassist inachieving our Vision?
What arethekeysuccess factors?
Think ofnew and exciting activities that would help driving the
college toourvision and mission
Revisit the previous strategies and make some changes, based on
previous performance, strength &weakness, challenge and
opportunityReview
Reimagine
Realign
Since then wehave been through aseries ofworkshop with Steering committee, Program
Directors and Chairs ofdivisions aswell asChief and Heads ofsections tobrainstorm, discuss
and review MUIC way forward .Finally, wehave successfully paint thefuture Vision and agreed
onthestrategic direction forthenext 4years together .
Toachieve the strategic objectives, five key strategies were formulated based onstrategic
foresights, opportunities, challenges, core competencies, strengths, and resources .They are:
1. Enhance creativity and innovation through campus experience
2. Inspire life-long learning through liberal arts education
3. Capitalize onexpertise and distinction through collaborations
4. Foster Global Citizenship /Mindset
5. Optimize sustainability oftheorganization
Strategy to Action Approach
SHAPING MUIC
FUTURE 
TOGETHER W H E R E  T O  P L A YH O W  T O  W I N
3. PLANING TO WIN
•Confirm Business Challenge and  
4 Year Strategic Pillars with the 
Steering Committee
•Align the Overall Strategy2. REVIEW ISSUES, OPPORTUNITIES & 
STRATEGIC PILLARS
•Review Key trends, Issues & 
Opportunities 
•Review Strategies make it more 
precise and sharp
•Identify What Success Look Like
•Identify objective, KPIs and Key 
action plan of each strategic 
element1. BUILDING UNDERSTANDING & 
INSIGHT
•Information Review & Insights
•Sharing Key Findings4. IMPLEMENT WITH EXCELLENCE
•Mobilisation Plan Development: 
•Develop a high -level Activation Plan 
for each Strategic Pillar across all 
departments
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

Strategic Challenges & Threats
Speed of advanced technology 01
isachallenge for most people, toupskill orreskill .
Providing quality education and services forfuture global
citizens requires speed ofupdating and acquiring new
knowledge and skills forthefuture .
Digital Generation 02
grows upwith digital platforms inalmost allaspects .They
are used tospeed, changes, and short messages .Thus,
handling the gap and maintaining ITinfrastructure for
effective teaching and learning methodology are among
important challenges .
Changing Mindset03
about university degrees, and anincrease inonline
training and certificates from world -renown companies .
Increase in international 
programs 04
especially within MU that sometimes encroaches upon
our‘program territory’ .
Decrease in the number of 
PC students05
may bedriven bydeclining birthrates, the widespread
immediate availability ofjobs, greater public skepticism of
the need for higher education oran increase in
international schools around Thailand .
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

Vision, Mission and Goals
for 2023 -2027
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
MUIC inspires innovation, fosters human 
potential, and creates new knowledge 
through the integration of arts and 
sciences in an international environment, 
ultimately resulting in education, 
research, and services that answer the 
needs of society and benefit humankind”
Enriching Lives, 
Expanding Potentials, 
Shaping Futures
1. Develop and foster a global 
mindset (foster global citizenship)
2. Life-long learning supported by  
liberal arts education
3. Sustainability
VISION
MISSION
GOALS
1.Develop and foster a global mindset (foster global citizenship)
2.Life-long learning supported by a synergetic liberal arts education
3.Sustainability
STRATEGY 2:
Inspire life -long 
learning through 
liberal arts education
VISION 2023 -2027:
MUIC inspires innovation, 
fosters human potential and creates new 
knowledge through the integration of arts and sciences in 
an international environment, ultimately resulting in education, 
research and services that answer the needs of society and benefit humankind.
MISSION:             
Enriching Lives, Expanding Potentials, Shaping Futures
STRATEGY 1:
Enhance creativity and 
innovation through 
campus experienceSTRATEGY 3:
Capitalise on expertise 
and distinction through 
research and academic 
service collaborations
STRATEGY 4: 
Foster global citizenshipSTRATEGY 5: 
Optimise sustainability of the 
organisationMUIC Strategy House 
GOALS 
(STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES):
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

Strategy and 
Strategic Operation Directions
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
Strategy 1. Enhance creativity and innovation through campus 
experience
Strategic Operation Directions: ST1.1 Create an ecosystem to enhance learning experience 
and creativity
Strategy 2.Inspire life -long learning through liberal arts 
education
Strategic Operation Directions: ST2.1 Life-long learnings culture
ST2.2 Immersive Interdisciplinary Education
ST2.3 Excellent education provider
Strategy 3.Capitalize on expertise and distinction through 
research and academic service collaborations
Strategic Operation Directions: ST3.1 Impactful Research and Innovation
ST3.2 Academic Services
Strategy 4Foster Global Citizenship / Mindset
Strategic Operation Directions: ST 4.1 Student Global Experience
ST4.2 Multi -Cultural engagement
ST4.3 Service learning 
ST4.4 SDG  driven projects 
Strategy 5Optimize sustainability of the organization
Strategic Operation Directions: ST5.1 Excellent HR management
ST5.2 Excellent IT infrastructure and data management
ST5.3 Excellent organization performance
Strategy No.1:
Enhance creativity and innovation
through campus experience
Create an ecosystem to 
enhance learning experience 
and creativityST 1.1
MUIC plans tocreate anecosystem, bywhich students
and faculties can collaboratively design and develop
‘interdisciplinary learning’ inand out ofthe classroom
lessons through theconcept ofDesign Thinking based on
real business requirements (real world cases) .In
addition, acomputer platform will becreated and
utilized tofacilitate the process ofinnovation and
connect toindustries .For example, relevant student
projects and faculty creative works arearchived and can
beeasily search byMUIC community and strategic
industrial partners .Finally, the building spaces will be
renovated toinspire life-long learning and creativity .
Some spaces will bemade into multi -functional rooms,
which can hold varieties ofactivities i.e.exhibition,
workshop and Maker space .‘Through the concept of"Design thinking", MUIC creates
environment and services toenhance student and faculty
experiences and creativity that finally leads toinnovation’
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST1. Enhance creativity and innovation through campus experience
Through the concept of "Design thinking", MUIC creates environment and services to enhance 
student and faculty experiences and creativity that finally leads to innovation
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
1.1. Create an 
ecosystem to 
enhance 
learning 
experience and 
creativity-Mechanism 
to enhance 
student 
learning 
experience 
through the 
process of 
Design 
Thinking
-Computer 
platform to 
store and 
facilitate the 
creation of 
prototypes
-environment 
that inspires 
life-long 
learning and 
creativity1.1.1 establish 
the MUIC INSPIRE 
Center (engine to 
create innovation)-no. of intellectual 
properties from 
classroom
-no. of prototypes 
that are 
successfully 
implementedAssoc. 
Dean for 
SA2023 -2027
1.1.2 MUIC 
creative product 
platform-no. of successful 
projects derived 
from the platformAssoc. 
Dean for 
CC&ITby January 
2025
1.1.3 
Multifunctional 
spaces-No. of users 
(students/industrial 
partners)
-user satisfaction 
levelAssoc. 
Dean for 
OEby July 
2025MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
International accreditation that drive high quality
international education isanimportant step forMUIC
toreach our Vision .Allprograms should complete
international accreditation intheir relevant fields .Capitalised the diverse distinct education programs
that engages students inreal-world work experiences
and project -based learning .These programs will give
students awell rounded knowledge that canbeapplied
inreal life.Strengthen highlights ofeach division, and redesign
theprogram tofitwith current fast changing education
environment and toenhance MUIC image resulting in
attracting more students .This willalso benefit alumni,
staff and everyone inMUIC .Inaddition, coaching
scheme willbedeveloped tocoach students tohave a
growth mindset .
Excellent education provider ST 2.3Immersive 
Interdisciplinary Education ST 2.2Create successful Life -long 
learning culture ST 2.1
Strategy No.2:
Inspire life-long learning through
liberal arts education
‘Utilising MUIC’s strength that hosts diversified programs of
different disciplines topromote interdisciplinary learning
experiences and academic -support that inspires life-long
learning .This willfocus on3areas, aiming tomake MUIC move
towards becoming aleading Liberal Arts College’
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST2. Inspire life -long learning through liberal arts education
Utilising MUIC’s strength that hosts diversified programs of different disciplines to promote 
interdisciplinary learning experiences and academic -support that inspires life -long learning. This 
will focus on 3 areas, aiming to make MUIC move towards becoming a leading Liberal Arts 
College.
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
2.1. Develop 
Life-long 
learning 
culture *Promote 
Life-long learning 
mindset among 
MUIC 
students/staff/
faculties 
through 
onsite and 
online 
activities 2.1.1 Create a 
successful life -
long learning 
program 
(i.e. MUIC
connect “IC 
YAKRU. YouTube
channel on 
trending topics)-no. of programs
-no. of users 
-user satisfaction 
levelAssoc. 
Dean for 
CC & IT 
and OAA2023 -2025
Students 
possess a 
growth 
mindset and 
develop 
decision -making 
skill2.1.2 Set up 
Student 
academic 
mentoring 
program -Student 
satisfaction level 
(80% of students 
under the program 
gives 4/5)Assoc. 
Dean for 
OAA2023 -2026
2.2.Immersive 
Interdisciplinary
Education 
(real -world 
case practices, 
project -based 
learning)Student 
possess 
interdisciplinary
knowledge 
with real 
World 
experience 2.2.1
Interdisciplinary 
programs (i.e. 
Minors/certificates) 
with immersive 
capstone/senior 
projects-No. of 
Interdisciplinary 
programs (100%)Assoc. 
Dean for 
OAAby 2025MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
*Growth mindset (See everything as a learning opportunity and feel thankful for it)
*The last journey on life long learning is the journey to oneself. (Joyful life)
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST2. Inspire life -long learning through liberal arts education
Utilising MUIC’s strength that hosts diversified programs of different disciplines to promote 
interdisciplinary learning experiences and academic -support that inspires life -long learning. This 
will focus on 3 areas, aiming to make MUIC move towards becoming a leading Liberal Arts 
College.
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
2.3. Excellent 
education 
providerHigh quality 
educational 
programs2.3.1 
International 
accreditation at 
the program 
level-no. of programs 
accredited by 
international 
accreditation bodyAssoc. 
Dean for 
SP & QDJuly  2023 -
2026MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
*Growth mindset (See everything as a learning opportunity and feel thankful for it)
*The last journey on life long learning is the journey to oneself. (Joyful life)
Strengthen relationship with allstakeholders .Identify
and collaborate with appropriate parties tocreate
impactful research and/or interdisciplinary research .
Inspire and seriously create foundation forinnovation .
Inaddition, collaboration between staff across units to
identify best practice can finally leads toimproved
workflow and work place innovation .Impactful Research and 
Innovation ST 3.1
Academic services brings real World information,
experience and opportunities toMUIC .Italso bring
respect, recognition and extra income .Building a
strong network with academic institutions, industries,
and community can lead tomany good collaborative
projects which benefit students, MUIC, and/or society
asawhole .Academic services that 
enhance education eco 
systemST 3.2
Strategy No.3:
Capitalize on expertise and distinction through 
research and academic service collaborations 
High quality faculties and staff, agood mix ofinternational employee arethekey
strengths ofMUIC .Through both internal and external collaborations (including
with alumni, other fields within Mahidol University, other universities, experts in
thesame field, government offices, and private organizations), they can create
quality outputs fordesired shared objectives .Many identified weaknesses of
MUIC can besolved bypower ofthought and competencies ofthefaculties and
staff .
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST3. Capitalize on expertise and distinction through collaborations
High quality faculties and staff, a good mix of international employee are the key strengths of 
MUIC. Through both internal and external collaborations (including with alumni, other fields 
within Mahidol University, other universities, experts in the same field, government offices, and 
private organizations), they can create quality outputs for desired shared objectives. Many 
identified weaknesses of MUIC can be solved by power of thought and competencies of the 
faculties and staff.
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
3.1. Impactful 
Research and 
innovationInterdisciplinary 
research with 
high impact 
New knowledge 
and innovation 
emerged from 
interdisciplinary 
researches and 
activities3.1.1 
Establishment of  
Research 
Excellence center-No. of successful 
cases of published 
cross -discipline 
research in Q1
-No. of creative 
products/new 
knowledge
-No. intellectual 
properties (start 
counting at the 
application 
stage)Assoc. 
Dean RES 
& AS Yearly, 
start July 
2023 
Best practice 
and finally leads 
to workflow 
improvement 
and career 
advancement3.1.2 Continuous 
of Staff R2R-No. of R2R 
products (measure 
after 1 year 
onward)Assoc. 
Dean RES 
& AS Yearly, 
start July 
2023 
3.2. 
Academic 
services that 
enhance 
education eco 
system-Income from 
real business 
and Industries
-Industrial 
connection3.2.1 Improved 
Academic Service 
business plan-Project Value
-no. of student 
activities 
associated with 
the strategic 
industrial 
partnersAssoc. 
Dean RES 
& AS 2023 -
2027MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
Only when aperson personally experience something,
they truly learned and understood it.Global
experiences willhelp wider ourpeople perspective and
help usseeing thebigger picture that willtake usastep
closer into becoming aglobal citizen .Enhance Student and staff 
global experience ST 4.1
Strategy #4:
Foster Global Citizenship / Mindset
Asaninternational institution, itisvery important forMUIC tofoster students and staff tobea
global citizen who possess the core values ofempathy and inter -culturalism .Activities will
focus oncollaborating with strategic international partners for student and staff global
experience, respecting different cultures, engaging with communities and committing tobea
part ofbusiness, social and environmental solutions .Global mindset means that our people
possess aboundaryless attitude and view point where differences ingeographical location,
physical appearance orbeliefs such asrace, gender, ethnicity, sexual oreintation, religions etc.,
brings about holistic learning and living notconflict .
Promote Multi -cultural 
engagement and inclusivity ST 4.2
Multi -cultural engagement and inclusivity activities will
beanother important step for our people tolearn,
understand, believe and embrace the importance of
differences .
Promote Service learning 
Promote SDG -driven 
projectsST 4.3
ST 4.4
Projects/courses that allow people ofMUIC toengage
with various communities .The experience with people
from different social and economic backgrounds will
promote thevalue ofempathy, enhance critical thinking
aswell asenable the students and faculties touse
knowledge and skills forthebenefit ofhumankind .
Realising that theWorld problems isourproblem,
weneed toincorporate SDG into everything wedo.
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST4. Foster global citizenship / Mindset
As an international institution, it is very important for MUIC to foster students and staff to be a 
global citizen who possess the core values of empathy and inter -culturalism. Activities will focus 
on collaborating with strategic international partners for student and staff global experience, 
respecting different cultures, engaging with communities and committing to be a part of 
environmental solutions
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
4.1. Enhance 
Student and 
staff global 
experience Students 
possess a 
global 
mindset4.1.1 Exchange 
Program
4.1.2 Promote 
interaction 
between 
international and 
local students 
4.1.3 
International 
Expert Seminar 
for student and 
staff-No. of 
Inbound/outbound 
exchange student  
-No. of activities 
-No. of seminar by 
international 
expertsAssoc. 
Dean for 
IAStart July 
2023 
(Yearly)
4.1.4 Global case 
competition-No. of 
international 
strategic partners 
participated in the 
competitionAssoc. 
Dean for 
IA and SAStart July 
2024 
(yearly)
4.1.5 Senior 
Project or 
internship 
abroadNo. of Senior 
Project or 
internship abroadAssoc. 
Dean for 
IAStart July 
2024 
(yearly)
4.2.  Promote 
intercultural 
engagement 
and inclusivityStudents 
possess an 
understanding 
of different 
cultures, 
believes and 
needs.4.2.1 
Intercultural 
activities-No. of activities / 
term
-No. of students 
participating in the 
activitiesAssoc. 
Dean for 
IAby July 
2024MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST4. Foster global citizenship / Mindset
As an international institution, it is very important for MUIC to foster students and staff to be a 
global citizen who possess the core values of empathy and inter -culturalism. Activities will focus 
on collaborating with strategic international partners for student and staff global experience, 
respecting different cultures, engaging with communities and committing to be a part of 
environmental solutions
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
4.3. Promote 
Service 
learning Long -term 
Community 
engagement4.3.1 Community 
Service courses/
projects, based 
on MU social 
engagement 
criteria  •No. of 
courses/projects
•No. of students
•Level of impactAssoc. 
Dean for 
SA and 
divisionCourses 
open in 
September
2024
4.4. Promote 
SDG -driven 
projectsInternal 
processes that 
align with 
SDGs 
College 
activities that 
drive SDGs4.4.1 Promote 
SDG -related 
projects and 
research•No. of SDG 
related projectsAssoc. 
Dean for 
SP & QDby July 
2024MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
This refers toapplying national standards ofquality
assurance system .Excellent organization 
performance ST 5.3Anup-to-date and effective ITinfrastructure isessential
and top priority forMUIC operations management .The
infrastructure takes into consideration international
standards and connections .This includes quality
Management Information System, theregular report forall
level management .Excellent IT infrastructure 
and data management ST 5.2Human resource management challenges include not only
motivating faculties and staff, butalso developing functional
competency and managerial competency ofall staff .
Embracing and practicing MU Values with anemphasis on
MUIC values ;excellence, empathy, integrity, and inter -
culturalism, are essential tothe unity and the strength to
move MUIC forward .Internationalizing the values refers to
recognizing theinternational dimension ofthevalues .Excellent HR management ST 5.1
Strategy No.5:
Optimize sustainability of the 
Organization
Due tothe radical changes happening around MUIC and foreseeing more
changes tocome which will affect future human resource requirements and
organisational management system, education institutes need tobeprepared .
Three areas have been identified astop priorities for MUIC sustainable
development forthenext four years
MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027

MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
ST5. Optimise sustainability of the organization
Due to the radical changes happening around MUIC and foreseeing more changes to come which 
will affect future human resource requirements and organisational management system, 
education institutes need to be prepared. Three areas have been identified as top priorities for 
MUIC sustainable development.
Operational 
Strategies: 
projectsExpected outputs Initiative plans KPIs Responsible 
personsTimeframe
5.1. Excellent 
HR management-Happy 
workplace
-Organization 
that is driven 
by culture 
and core 
values5.1.1 Increase 
happiness in 
workplace:  
reevaluation of 
-work -life 
balance
-career 
advancement
-fairness
-empowerment
5.1.2 Strengthen  
organizational 
core values, 
culture of 
excellence and 
engagement.-Staff Happiness 
index higher than 
75 % 
-no. of successful IDP 
(Individual 
Development 
Program)Assoc. 
Dean for 
HR and 
Finance2023 -2027
5.2. Excellent IT 
infrastructure 
and data 
managementReady to use 
data, with high 
accuracy and 
up-to-date 
(data from all 
sections in the 
college)5.2.1 Seamless 
data integration 
project 
5.2.2 Modernizing 
IT infrastructure 
(i.e. cyber 
security, data 
quality)-user satisfaction 
levelAssoc. 
Dean for IT 
and CC2023 -2027
5.3. Excellent 
organization 
performanceContinuous 
improvement 
of the 
organization 
performance
(improvement 
of all internal 
processes)5.3.1 Preparation 
for Edpex and TQC 
accreditationReceive TQC award Assoc. 
Dean for 
SP & QD2023 -2026MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
Glossary
Enriching lives means delivering good quality oflifeand overall well-being toallthepeople who are
vitally connected toMUIC .This includes faculty members and staff, and especially students .Besides
our role inengaging, educating, and inspiring young minds, theMUIC environment also strives to
create personal and professional growth, and promote apositive and healthy lifestyle toallits
inhabitants .
Expanding potentials refers totheability ofanindividual ororganization toincrease their ability to
achieve their goals and objectives .Itisaconcept that emphasizes growth and development through
exploring new opportunities, taking charge oftheir lives, and being proactive infinding solutions to
challenges .Expanding potentials can come from many different sources .InEducation, students are
provided with the opportunity toexplore new skills through the iDesign curriculum .The newly
developed minor, Designing Innovations, aims atallowing students toseek out new challenges by
acting asconsultants and solve real-world problems presented tothem bypeople inthe industry .
This isthe opportunity tobuild new relationships, negotiate teamwork, and learn the artof
networking .Through it,students will learn amore agile working style, asthey seek tocontinuously
improve and enhance their abilities toproblem -solve .
Shaping Futures refers totheprocess ofactively creating apreferred future foroneself and others
bytaking deliberate steps toinfluence theoutcome .Itinvolves thedevelopment ofstrategies and
plans toensure that goals areachieved inatimely and efficient manner .This concept isthekey to
developing asustainable future .Shaping Futures encompasses creating theawareness oftheworld
around us,realizing our capacity toproblem -solve and being inspired topro-actively participate in
issues that matter such astheenvironmental and social equality .
Global citizenship :embodies concepts, values and practices ofcreating and maintaining onidentity
that transcends, respects and includes diverse backgrounds particularly interns ofgeography,
politics, culture, race, religion and gender .Global citizenship education aims todevelop the
knowledge, skills, values, and attitudes necessary forindividuals tobecome active and informed
members oftheglobal community .Itencourages critical thinking, empathy, and cultural awareness,
and helps individuals develop asense ofbelonging toashared humanity .Global citizens understand
that their actions and decisions have animpact onothers and theplanet, and that they have arole
toplay inpromoting peace, justice, sustainability, and human rights .They areinformed, engaged,
and proactive inaddressing global challenges such aspoverty, inequality, climate change, and
conflict .MUIC Strategic Plan 2023 -2027
A Leading International 
Liberal Arts College
STRATEGIC PLAN 
2023 -2027
version 22 December 2022 
