
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, 
Achievement, and Composition  
 
 
Table of Contents  
 
Welcome  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------  1 
Executive summary  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------------------  2 
MIT’s commitment to community, belonging,  
and a culture of excellence  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------  3 
Why MIT is creating this plan  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------  3 
How this plan is different  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------------  3 
How we defin e community  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------------------------  4 
Where it starts and what we need to do  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------  5 
How this plan was created  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------  6 
Next steps  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------  6 
How we will implement the plan  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------  6 
Ownership  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------  6 
Setting up the Foundation Year  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- 8 
Measurement -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------------------------  7 
Accountability and transparency  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -- 7 
Strategic Action Plan Steering Team  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------  9 
Acknowledgements  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- 9 
Proposed  actions and owners  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------  9 
Belonging  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------  10 
Achievement  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------------  13 
Composition  -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------  15 
  
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   1 
Dear colleagues, students, alumni, and friends,  
 
The Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition reflects so many of the qualities we 
admire in our community. It’s practical. It’s data informed. And it reminds us of the importance of  
collaboration, accountability, and transparency.  
  
We are grateful to the steering team for its leadership in shaping such a thoughtful strategy for cultivating a 
community in which all of us can do our best work and thrive.  
  
We, MIT’s senior leadership team, support and endorse this plan, and are committed to the actions it 
presents. We ask for your help in making the plan’s vision for our community a reality.  
 
L. Rafael Reif  
President  Alfred Ironside  
Vice President for Communications  
Cynthia  Barnhart  
Provost  Julie Lucas  
Vice President for Resource Development  
Mark DiVincenzo  
Vice President and General Counsel  Melissa Nobles  
Chancellor  
W. Eric L. Grimson  
Vice President for Open Learning (interim) and 
Chancellor for Academic Advancement  
 
Suzanne L. Glassburn  
Vice President and Secretary of the Corporation  Glen Shor  
Executive Vice President and Treasurer  
 
Maria T. Zuber  
Vice President for Research  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   2 
Executive summary  
MIT’s Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition is a framework to support local and 
Institute -wide efforts to advance practices, systems, and behaviors that promote equity, value differences, 
and establish conditions so that all mem bers of our community can thrive. The plan aims to coordinate, 
assess, and elevate new and existing activities around three strategic priorities: belonging, achievement, and 
composition. It specifies Institute commitments related to each priority : 
 
• Critica lly engage with and empower the MIT community on the value of inclusion and belonging as 
drivers of Institute effectiveness.  
• Reinforce positive interactions among members of the MIT community to foster and promote an 
enduring sense of belonging.  
• Support ac ademic research, scholarship, and administrative collaborations regarding diversity, 
equity, inclusion, social justice, and related topics at MIT.  
• Advance excellence in all forms of success among underrepresented undergraduate students, 
graduate students, postdocs, staff, and faculty.  
• Improve the representation of underrepresented graduate students, postdocs, staff, and faculty.  
• Assess and strengthen recruitment of underrepresented undergraduate students  
 
Each commitment is accompanied by a series of propos ed actions, more than 50 in total. Each proposed 
action is either owned or co -owned by a member of MIT’ s senior leadership team , based on who m the action 
is designed to serve (students, staff, postdocs, or faculty) .   
 
The first year of this plan’s implementation —the Foundation Year —will focus on enabling and coordinating 
the development of local plans that align with the Institute -wide plan, creating common infrastructure that 
can be leveraged across the Institute,  developing reporting and assessment tools, and cultivating the skills 
and capacity necessary for making change.  
 
We use the terms belonging, achievement, and composition in this plan because they better reflect how MIT 
defines community, its focus, and it s values than the more commonly used inclusion, equity, and diversity.  
  
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   3 
MIT’s commitment to community, belonging,  
and a culture of excellence  
 
MIT has offered generations of people the opportunity to change the trajectory of their lives, 
develop their full potential, and have an impact in the world. Yet the Institute is part of a 
society in which opportunity is not evenly distributed and in which not all people feel their 
contributions are valued. To more fully live up to its mission and increase its impact, MIT will 
continue increasing the diversity and sense of belonging in its community, removing barriers 
to opportunity, and shaping an environment in which all people can do their best work and 
thrive.  
Why MIT is creating this plan  
To live up to the demands of MIT’s mission —advancing knowledge, educating students, and developing in 
each member of our community the ability and passion to work wisely, creatively, and effectively for the 
betterment of humankind —we must look first to the conditions  of our community. MIT must remain a place 
where the most talented students, staff, postdocs, and faculty in the world want to work together and learn.  
 
To sustain its position as one of the world’s leading institutions of education and research, MIT is en gaged in 
an increasingly competitive race for talent. We must retain and sustain the exceptional people who make up 
our community , and we will need to work harder —and smarter —to attract the very best of future 
generations into our labs, offices, classrooms , and workshops.  
 
MIT’s  responsiveness  to the members of our  community , and our  commitments  to change are not new, but 
we now seek to build on past progress with a n Institute -wide action plan, supported by plans and proposals 
on a more local level, that will set a unifying direction  for the important work ahead.  
How this plan is different  
Over seve ral decades, MIT has developed a number of thoughtful official reports  on challenges around 
diversity, equity, and inclusion in our community, with a particular focus on the issues affecting women and 
histor ically underrepresented faculty and students. These efforts, and others, have led to significant progress 
in some areas, such as undergraduate admission.  
 
However, efforts to address persistent challenges have never been coordinated Institute -wide, nor ha ve they 
been framed to advance a sense of community and belonging across MIT. An Institute -wide plan will address 
this by offering a platform for coordinating, assessing, and elevating these efforts.  
 
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   4 
This plan builds on previous efforts by highlighting ap proaches that have already succeeded and applying 
those lessons to drive broader progress. It also encourages academic, research, and administrative units to 
develop their own innovative plans and provides a framework to help.  
How we define community  
MIT’ s on-campus population is made up of roughly 4,600 undergraduate students, 7,300 graduate students, 
14,000 staff, 1,500 postdocs, and 1,000 faculty; Institute alumni number approximately 145,000. We come 
from all 50 US states and every country in the world , and we represent a broad range of faiths, races, 
ethnicities , ages, political views, and socioeconomic backgrounds. MIT’s sense of community is defined by 
how all of us treat each other and by the culture and climate that result from our interactions.  
 
To achieve the sense of community proposed in this plan, we must look inward to understand what we can 
do now, we must look back to learn from our successes and our missteps, and we must look forward to 
achieve what we aspire  to become. If we are not tryin g to create a culture of excellence in which all members 
of the community can do their best work, now and in the future, we are not fulfilling MIT’s mission.  
 
We believe diversity refers to the sum of social, cultural, and individual human attributes repre sented within 
a group and how these groups work together. These attributes include (but are not limited to) age, class, 
disability, educational background, ethnicity, gender expression, gender identity, geographical location, 
immigration status, income, ma rital status, national origin, parental status, political views, pregnancy, race, 
religion, sexual orientation, work experiences, and veteran status. These categories are not always fixed and 
often overlap.  
 
At MIT, as in the United States as a whole, dive rsity is a fact about our community, present and future. That 
diversity of backgrounds, views, and talents is essential to MIT’s strength; our differences challenge us to 
broaden and deepen our vision, to reexamine standing assumptions and ask questions we  have not asked 
before. But our differences can also create points of pain and friction. Attending carefully to our diversity is a 
way of promoting a culture of respect, civility, and empathy so that all members of our community can 
thrive. That is our goa l. 
 
Diversity is not a proxy for underrepresentation. The Institute currently identifies members of a “racial/ethnic 
underrepresented” group as: “a U.S. Citizen who self -identifies as Black/African -American, Hispanic/Latinx, 
Native American or Alaskan Nati ve, Native Hawaiian, or other Pacific Islander.” While this plan aspires to 
improve circumstances for people from underrepresented groups at MIT, we take a broader view of diversity.  
 
For this plan to have its intended impact, we must revisit many of our current assumptions, definitions, and 
practices around underrepresentation. For example, we must use a broader set of attributes —including 
those in the definition above, and others —to understand the composition of our community. We must also 
attend to the impact of long -standing practices, such as the fact that MIT records gender as only male or 
female; these binary categories line up with those in coordinated national and peer -institution reporting 
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   5 
systems, but they may no longer serve our community well i n other contexts. And we must better 
understand composition in context: across the different segments of our community, and within the specific 
academic, administrative, and research units where we learn and work.  
 
MIT must be able to identify and address the concerns of any community that is subject to identity -based 
discrimination or harassment, regardless of its proportion at MIT (e.g., Asians and Asian -Americans or Native 
Americans), or for which there is not reliable institutional data (disabled, LGBTQ +, veterans, and others). 
Additionally, MIT must enable meaningful disaggregations of constituencies within communities that are 
often treated as monolithic (Asian, Hispanic/Latin o, “international”).  
Where it starts and what we need to do  
The plan asks each of us to reflect on how the particular challenges and opportunities of our own 
backgrounds have shaped our paths and attitudes, our advantages and disadvantages, how other people’s 
experiences may have affected them, and how these factors play out in how we live and work together.  
 
As individuals, we must accept responsibility for identifying and eliminating behaviors and habits that 
undermine the sense of belonging for any member of our community —while committing ourselves to 
maintaining an environmen t where we can freely and respectfully express diverging views.  
 
As an organization, MIT aims to create and institutionalize new policies, systems, and behaviors that promote 
equity, value differences of opinion and origin, and establish conditions for pro ductive disagreement that 
unite all of us in service to the Institute’s mission. To this end, we will organize our inquiry and actions around 
three strategic priorities:  
 
• Belonging:  MIT will cultivate a community in which people feel connected to each othe r, share a 
sense of purpose, and support each individual’s freedom to be themselves and respectfully express 
their views. By encouraging empathy, civil discourse, inclusion, and engagement, we will build on our 
historic strengths as a problem -solving insti tution and contribute to society's collective well -being.  
 
• Achievement:  MIT will make equity central to how opportunities are presented and assessments are 
conducted for all members of the community while ensuring the highest standards of excellence. We 
will minimize barriers to achievement and chart equitable pathways to success for everyone.  
 
• Composition:  MIT can only fulfill its mission by serving as a magnet for a wide range of talented 
people. The composition of our community, and of our leadership, should reflect a commitment to 
diversity. Establishing objectives, defining steps for achieving them, and improving processes for 
collecting more detailed identity data will empower us to see ourselves more clearly and make 
progress.  
 
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   6 
We use the terms belo nging, achievement, and composition in this plan because they better reflect how MIT 
defines community, its focus, and its values than the more commonly used inclusion, equity, and diversity.  
How this plan was created  
This plan took shape through extensiv e consultations across the MIT community. In concert with MIT 
leadership, a  steering team of faculty, staff, students, and postdocs first convened in fall 2020 and began by 
reviewing  previous reports  that identified patterns of inequity at MIT. Beginning with a list of more than 170 
ideas to improve community and belonging, the first draft of the plan was r eleased on March 30, 2021.  
  
Upon its release, the plan’s organizers and steering team received hundreds of emails and conducted more 
than three dozen formal community engagement sessions involving hundreds of MIT community members —
staff , students, facult y, postdocs, trustees, and alumni —as well as many informal review sessions with 
different groups around campus. From these emails and conversations, comments on the draft plan fell into 
five broad categories:  
• Accountability and objectives:  The plan should be more specific about its expectations of 
community members and of MIT leadership at all levels; it also needs to be clearer regarding 
outcomes if expectations are not met.  
• Identity:  The plan should more clearly define whom it seeks to se rve, and it should define how MIT 
will better understand and address identity -based concerns within the campus community.  
• Resources:  The plan should explain what resources will be made available to enable the actions it 
recommends.  
• Current community:  As an  aspirational document, the plan describes a future state for MIT, but it 
should also serve the needs and address the concerns of the current community.  
• Education:  The plan should be more specific about how it will improve the educational experiences 
of al l members of the MIT community with specific regard to belonging, achievement, and 
composition.  
 
The current version of the plan reflects this feedback, and more. It remains a work in progress and additional 
inputs are always welcome by writing to iceo@mit.edu . 
Next steps  
The release of this plan is only the fir st step. Recognizing both the need for shared progress and the reality of 
the Institute’s decentralized structure and culture, further progress depends on creating localized programs 
for action in each academic, research, and administrative unit.  
 
Many un its have already designed and launched plans and programs that are making meaningful progress to 
address issues of community and belonging. This plan is designed to support, amplify, and provide context for 
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   7 
those efforts. For units at earlier stages in the  process, this plan sets expectations and offers guidance and a 
framework for identifying goals and paths to achieving them.  
 
As we implement this plan and assess how it is working, we expect to learn from each other and uncover new 
ideas. To make the mos t of this learning process, the plan will need to be flexible. This also holds true for 
more localized versions.  
How we will implement the plan  
Ownership  
Responsibility for the plan  is set at the level of its 50 -plus actions or initiatives. Oversight for each has been 
assigned to a member of MIT’s senior leadership team .  
These assignments correspond broadly to the audiences the plan is designed to serve: proposed actions 
related to students are assigned to the c hancellor, staff to the vice president for human resources, faculty to 
the provost, postdocs to the vice president for research (VPR), and those affecting Institute -wide strategic 
concerns will be the province of the  President’s Office. Proposed actions th at fall to the Institute Community 
and Equity Office (ICEO) are also Institute -wide, but they are more operational than strategic. Some proposed 
actions are noted in the plan as shared. These will require coordination among members of senior leadership.  
Setting up the Foundation Year   
The first year of this plan’s implementation —the Foundation Year —will focus on enabling and coordinating 
the development of local plans, creating common infrastructure that can be leveraged across the Institute, 
developing rep orting and assessment tools, and cultivating the skills and capacity necessary for making 
change. We will assess, address, and prioritize resource needs in alignment with the Institute’s annual budget 
and planning processes.  
 
At the end of the Foundation Year, this plan will be revised and re -released to reflect the inputs of this 
process. Specifically, each of the plan’s owners will provide the following level of detail for each proposed 
action they have been assigned:  
• Goals:  Actions to be taken or change s that will occur.  
• Metrics and measurements: Sources specified to quantify progress towards goals.  
• Timing:  Schedule of implementation for proposed actions.  
• Resources:  Budgets, staffing plans, or other resource allocations necessary for accomplishing the 
goals of the plan.  
 
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   8 
Measurement  
The Foundation Year will result in plans for academic, research, and administrative units across the Institute. 
As units articulate their own goals and plans to achieve them, proposed metrics —both qualitat ive and 
quantitative —will be defined. We will identify any gaps in our current institutional data -collection processes 
and work with senior leaders to prioritize and address them. As the plan’s proposed actions may change, be 
revised, or get updated over t ime, the Institute will set overall goals for the plan for each commitment.  
Accountability  and transparency  
Owners of the plan’s proposed actions will provide an annual update to Academic Council  and to a 
committee of faculty, staff, postdocs, and students. The Institute will also develop and maintain online 
resources to track prioritization and progress toward each commitment  in this plan, to be updated annually 
in alignment with existing reporting practices at the Institute.  
 
 
Acknowledgements  
 
The plan’s organizers are deeply appreciative of the time, attention, and energy expended by MIT’s students, 
staff, postdocs, facult y, trustees, and alumni who participated in creating and shaping this document. They 
have done our community today —and tomorrow —a great service.   
 
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   9 
Strategic Action Plan Steering Team  
The principal drafters of the Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achieve ment, and Composition was a steering 
team made up of members of MIT’s community and the Committee on Race and Diversity , a standing Institute 
committee that reports to the President.  
 
Co-chairs:  
John Dozier , Institute Community and Equity Officer  
Maryanne Kirkbride , Deputy Institute Community and 
Equity Officer and Executive Director of 
MindHandHeart  Tim Jamison , Associate Provost and Robert R. Taylor 
Professo r of Chemistry  
 
Steering Team members : 
Alana Anderson , Assistant  Dean for Diversity , Equity, and 
Inclusion , MIT Schwarzman College of Computing  
EeShan C. Bhatt , Graduate Student, MIT -WHOI Joint Program in 
Oceanography/Applied Ocean Science and Engineering, 
Department of Mechanical Engineering  
Nandi Bynoe , Assistant  Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion , 
School of Engineering  
Ike Brochu , Assistant  Director, Disability and Access Services  
Gabriel Campos , Director  of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion , 
Human Resources  
Beatriz Cantada , Director  of Engagement for Diversity and 
Inclusion, Institute Community and Equity Office  
Yu Jing Chen , Undergraduate Student, Department of Urban 
Studies and Planning  
Nat Clarke , Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biology  
Orisa Coombs , Undergraduate  Student , Department of 
Mechanical Engineering  
DiOnetta Jones Crayton , Associate Dean and Director, Office of 
Minority Education  
Nina DeAgrela , Assistant Dean, Office of Inte rcultural Engagement  
Kuheli Dutt , Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion , 
School of Science  
Shirley A. Entzminger , Senior Co-Convener, Working Group for 
Support Staff  
John Fernández , Professor, Department of Architecture  
Chad Galts , Director of Communications, Institute  Community and 
Equity Office  
Asegun S. Henry , Professor, Department of Mechanical  
Engineering  
Alyce Johnson , Senior Advisor to the Vice President , Human 
Resources  
Virginia Johnson , Co-Lead, African, Black, American, C aribbean 
Employee  Resource Group  Tracie Jones , Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion , 
School  of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences  
Markus Klute , Professor, Department  of Physics  
Bianca Lepe , graduate student, Department  of Biological 
Engin eering  
Muchun Liu , Postdoctoral Associate, Department  of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering  
Kathleen Monagle , Associate Dean, Student  Support and 
Wellbeing  
Zaina Moussa , Undergraduate  Student, Department  of Biological 
Engineering  
Rachel Ornitz , Senior Administrative Assistant, Institute 
Community and Equity Office  
Monica Orta , Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity , Belonging, and 
Student Support , School of Architecture and Planning  
Ufuoma Ovienmhada , Graduate Student, Department of 
Aeronautics and  Astronautics  
Ray Reagans , Professor, Sloan School of Management  
Jonathan  Schwarz , Director of Institutional Research , Office of the 
Provost  
Alex Shalek , Professor, Department of Chemistry  
David Singer , Professor, Department of Political Science  
David Spic er, Undergraduate Student, Department of Political 
Science  
Kayla Storme , Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry  
Patricia Tang , Professor, Music and Theater Arts Section  
Bryan Thomas Jr. , Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion , MIT Sloan School of Management  
Lily L. Tsai , Professor, Department of Political Science , Chair of the 
Faculty  
Noelle Wakefield , Assistant Dean of Graduate Diversity Initiatives, 
Office of Graduate Education  
Catherine Wong , Graduate Student, Department  of Brain and 
Cognitive Scien ce
 
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   10 
Proposed actions and owners  
Belonging  
Priority /Commitment  Proposed action  Owner  
Critically engage with and 
empower the MIT community 
on the value of inclusion and 
belonging as drivers of 
Institute effectiveness.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Plans for every 
school/college, department, 
and administrative unit that 
align with the central 
strategic action plan  
•Participation of leadership,
students, postdocs, staff,
and faculty in inclusive 
leadership programs and
engagement opportunities  
•Assessments of learning 
outcomes in sponsored
programs and engagement 
opportunitiesFacilitate and enable the creation of localized programs and plans for action in academic, 
research, and administ rative units.  ICEO  
Broadly disseminate the MIT values statement.  President  
Expand categories of identity data formally collected from MIT community members to 
include characteristics such as religion, disability, first -generation, veteran status, gender 
beyond the binary, disaggregation of ethnic/racial categories, etc.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor, 
VPHR)  
Develop and execute a communications strategy that supports belonging, achievement, 
and composition to reach all MIT stakeholders (internal and external). These strategies 
should include amplifying underrepresented groups and voices, especially during times 
of the year that commemorate particular identities within our diverse community; and 
bolstering visibility of existing awards programs for students, staff, and faculty (MLK 
awards, RISE awards, et c.). VPComms  
Develop and maintain a set of internally available online resources to track prioritization 
and progress toward each commitment in this plan, to be updated annually in alignment 
with existing reporting practices at the Institute.  SHARED 
(VPComms, 
ICEO, 
President)  
Develop coordinated and consistent staff, faculty, postdoc, and student onboarding and 
orientation processes that reinforce MIT’s commitments to community and belonging.  SHARED 
(Chancellor, 
VPHR, VPR, 
Provost)  
Develop, maintain, and utilize a repository of diversity, equity, and inclusion resources 
designed to amplify the role of engagement, empathy, social analysis, civil discourse, 
mentoring, advising, and inclusion as institutional values.  ICEO  
Recognize students, staff, postdocs, and faculty who participate in specific, project -
based roles related to advancing Institute goals for belonging, achievement, and 
composition that fall outside of their job descriptions, service commitments , or other 
assigned responsibilities.  SHARED 
(Chancellor, 
VPHR, VPR, 
Provost)  
Improve collaboration, knowledge management, and sharing of best practices from 
departments and community -led programs that encourage the examination of issues 
related to diversity, equity, and inclusion.  ICEO  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   11 
Working in collaboration with existing departmental curriculum development and 
planning efforts, create a program and incentive structure for department heads and 
individual faculty members to develop curricular innovations and academic 
programming that incorporates diversity, equity, inclusion, justice, and ethics concepts 
into current subject matter and research topics across programs and departments.  Provost  
Reinforce positive interactions 
among members of the MIT 
community to foster and 
promote an enduring sense of 
belonging.  
Proposed metrics include : 
•Percentage of students,
postdocs, staff, and faculty 
who report a favorable 
sense of belonging ( Quality 
of Life [QoL] Survey)
•Number of students,
postdocs, staff, and faculty 
who report receiving
mentoring (QoL Survey)
•Perceptions regarding the 
quality of mentoring 
opportunities (QoL Survey)  
•Awareness of I nstitute 
discrimination and
Harassment Response 
Office’s  Bias Incident 
Reporting  Develop an Institute -wide model and rubric for assessing the success of mentoring 
efforts across the Institute. The intention is to leverage effective existing practices, offer 
best -practice standards and models for inclusionary practices that will promote a sense 
of belonging, and innovate new measures for instilling a culture of excellence in advising 
and mentoring (to include, for example, formal recommendations advanced by the Ad 
Hoc Committee on Graduate Advising and Mentoring ). SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor, 
VPHR, VPR )  
In collaboration with school, college, department, and unit leaders, implement ongoing 
feedback processes (e.g., surveys, 360-degree reviews, reverse mentorship, etc.) that 
allow staff, students, postdocs, and faculty to provide feedback to department, school, 
and senior leadership relating to creating and sustaining collegial and respectful 
environments.  SHARED 
(VPHR, VPR, 
Provost)  
Expand visibility of and create opportunities for employee engagement, such as 
Employee Resource Groups and other engagement mechanisms.  SHARED 
(VPHR, ICEO)  
Support faculty and supervisors through coordinated training programs that emphasize 
how to build trusting relationships, manage across differences, employ coaching 
strategies, facilitate difficult conversations, and provide effective feedback. Make all 
advisors and supervisors aware of key Institute resources. Encourage postdocs to access 
this program as part of their training to be future faculty leaders.  SHARED  
(ICEO, VPHR, 
VPR, Provost)  
The president will ensure the MIT community is informed annually regarding our 
discrimination and harassment policies and practices for redressing violations.  President  
Develop a Well -Being Lab for students to emphasize and coordinate health -promotion 
efforts across campus; strengthen the Department of Athletics, Physical Education, and 
Recreation’s formal academic wellness offerings; and develop campus -wide messaging 
about self -care, self -compassion, respect, relationships, and resiliency.  Chancellor  
Assess and report the usage, satisfaction, and availability of mental health resources 
provided by MIT. Based on findings, work to improve communication and outreach 
about mental health resources and increase representation among mental health 
practitioner s to reflect the needs of specific identity groups (e.g., women, racially 
underrepresented groups, LGBTQ+, persons with disabilities, etc.).  SHARED 
(VPHR, EVPT)  
Adapt campus space planning processes to identify community spaces for shared use by 
student groups and organizations. Work with the Graduate Student Council and the 
Undergraduate Association to assess space utilization and assignment and consider 
strategies for sharing or realigning.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor)  
Regularly evaluate the effectiveness of resources designed to meet students’ urgent 
financial needs, including addressing food insecurity and crisis -related support. Make 
appropriate updates to these resource allocations as needed.  Chancellor  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   12 
Review the findings and recommendations contained in the final report of MIT's review 
of public safety operations and inform the MIT community of what will be implemented.  President  
Review the findings and recommendations contained in the final report of MIT's Digital 
Accessibility Working Group and inform the MIT community of what will be 
implemented.  Provost  
Review the findings and recommendations contained in the final report of MIT's 
inclusive restrooms study and inform the MIT community of what will be implemented.  ICEO  
Facilitate compliance with both the letter and spirit of federal and local codes regarding 
physical accessibility so that our buildings and spaces convey a sense of belonging to all 
community members, including those with disabilities.  EVPT  
Support academic research, 
scholarship, and administrative 
collaborations regarding 
diversity, equity, inclusion, 
social justice, and related 
topics at MIT.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Volume of research projects 
and teaching and learning
opportunities focu sed on
systemic racism.
•Financial  As noted in President Reif’s  letter to the community in July 2020, make new investments 
of $1 million in research that draws on the MIT community’s strengths of intellectual 
inquiry and problem -solving to achieve progress on racial justice and equality at MIT and 
beyond . President  
Develop and promote a central repository of information to support diversity and 
inclusion in procurement decisions regarding suppliers that serve MIT.  EVPT  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   13 
Achievement  
Priority /Commitment  Proposed action  Owner  
Advance excellence in all forms 
of success among 
underrepresented 
undergraduate students.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•First -year to second -year
retention
•4-year graduation
•6-year graduation
•Post -graduation outcomes
•Participation in experiential
learning pro grams  Implement a stronger undergraduate advising structure with dedicated professional 
staff who, in concert with faculty advisors, will work with students across their 
undergraduate careers.  Chancellor  
Expand the fifth -week flag system to a more structured alert system that spans all four 
years.  Chancellor  
Determine if there are differences in participation rates and outcomes in experiential 
learning programs and develop strategies for addressing any areas of concern.  Chancellor  
Advance excellence in all forms 
of success among 
underrepresented graduate 
students.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Time to degree  
•Qualifying exam pass rates
•Post -graduation outcomesProvide data by race/ethnicity and gender to each school/college dean regarding 
graduate student program progression (e.g., qualifying exams, grades) and outcomes 
(e.g., papers, job placement, salaries). Deans will work with departments and programs 
to des ign regular, program -based self -assessments and review processes to take actions 
that address any inequities.  Provost  
Advance excellence in all forms 
of success among 
underrepresented postdocs.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Postdoc placements (after
completi on of their MIT 
appointments)Assess and add or enhance opportunities that ensure all postdocs have access to 
programming for personal and professional development.  VPR 
Advance excellence in all forms 
of success among 
underrepresented staff.  
Proposed metrics include : 
•Average salaries within job
classifications/bands andDevelop mechanisms to broaden participation in professional development 
opportunities for staff across the Institute and ensure that opportunities for 
participation are accessible by all staff.  VPHR  
Develop and share across the Institute standards for annual performance reviews of 
staff that acknowledge and support contributions to belonging, achievement, and 
composition at MIT.  VPHR  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   14 
across schools and 
departments  
•Promotion rates
•Retention ratesDevelop and share across the Institute a statement that more adequately expresses 
MIT’s commitments to belonging, achievement, and composition for use in job 
descriptions across the institute.  VPHR  
Advance excellence in all forms 
of success among 
underrepresented faculty.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Average salaries within
respective departments/ 
disciplines  
•Salary increases
•Promotion and tenure ratesReview and evaluate existing tenure and promotion criteria and revise them, as 
necessary, to incentivize  service contributions that include belonging, achievement, and 
composition.  Provost  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   15 
Composition
Priority /Commitment  Proposed action  Owner  
Improve the representation of 
underrepresented graduate 
students.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Graduate program
applicants
•Applicant yield rates
•Graduate student diversity
•Participation in MIT -
sponsored pipeline 
programs  Each academic program will document its graduate admissions process and selection 
criteria; deans, department heads, and Institute leadership will collaborate to ensure the 
implementation of holistic processes for admissions decisions Institute -wide; they will 
also document, promote, and operationalize best practices to inform the use of 
standardized tests, letters of recommendation, and other admissions criteria.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor)  
Create a certification process focused on the relationships bet ween diversity, 
community, and excellence for all faculty participating in graduate admissions decisions.  SHARED 
(Provost, ICEO, 
VPHR)  
Develop an Institute -wide approach to supporting recruitment and yield activities for 
underrepresented students.  Chancellor  
Assess, develop, and enhance coordinated bridge programs, such as the MIT Summer 
Research Program, that increase the number of underrepresented students who elect to 
attend graduate study at MIT and elsewhere  Chancellor  
Better coordinate departmental alliances and partnerships with minority -serving 
institutions and historically Black colleges and universities. Determine if there are 
opportunities to enhance existing partnerships and/or expand partnerships with other 
insti tutions.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor)  
Make explicit commitments to expand the number of MIT graduate fellowships (and 
coordinated fellowship programs) to support the recruitment and retention of students 
who enhance the diversity of their academic disciplines.  Provost  
Improve the representation of 
underrepresented postdocs 
and research staff.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Postdoc diversityCreate a certification process focused on the relationships between diversity, 
community, and excellence for all MIT principal investigators who make postdoc and 
research staff hiring decisions.  SHARED 
(Provost, VPR, 
VPHR, ICEO)  
Catalog each department, lab, and center's hiring practices for postdocs and establish 
Institute -wide best practices, processes, and standards . VPR 
Coordinate and expand existing programs that support postdoc recruitment and success.  VPR 
Improve the representation of 
underrepresented staff.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Diversity of managers,
senior leaders, and other
(non -faculty) Create a certification process focused on the relationships between diversity, 
community, and excellence for all hiring managers and staff who participate in staff 
hiring decisions.  
Develop and share across the Institute guiding principles and best practices for staff 
searches to increase belonging, achievement, and composition —starting from position 
creation, through search, to the annual review process.  SHARED 
(VPHR, ICEO)  
SHARED 
(VPHR, ICEO)  
More effectively utilize current Equal Employment Opportunity information and goals in 
all staffing categories, including leadership and management.  VPHR  
MIT Strategic Action Plan for Belonging, Achievement, and Composition   16 
Improve the representation of 
underrepresented faculty.  
Proposed metrics include:  
•Number of faculty 
participating in effective 
practices for search 
committees training  
•Faculty diversity (tenure and
non-tenure)Create a certification process focused on the relationships between diversity, 
community, and excellence for all faculty participating in faculty hiring decisions.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
VPHR, ICEO)  
Develop and implement a mechanism for following the academic careers and 
postgraduate success of top underrepresented undergraduate and graduate students 
and postdocs, as well as students who have participated in other outreach programs, 
that will inform faculty search committees in future years.  Provost  
Document and articulate faculty recruitment and pipeline development efforts and work 
to develop and implement programs that increase the number of underrepresented 
candidates in faculty searches.  Provost  
More effectively utilize current Equal Employment Opportunity information and goals in 
all faculty categories, including leadership and management.  SHARED 
(VPHR, 
Provost)  
Assess and strengthen 
recruitment of 
underrepresented 
undergraduate students.  
Proposed metrics include : 
•Number and diversity of 
high school students 
participating in MIT -
sponsored pipeline 
programs  Assess , and expand as needed our recruiting efforts for underrepresented 
undergraduates, including through work with established programs and partners. Chancellor  
Assess STEM outreach/pipeline programs and evaluate coordination among them; 
develop and implement plans to address opportunities and shortcomings.  SHARED 
(Provost, 
Chancellor)  
Notes:   ICEO=Institute Community and Equity Office;  VPHR=Vice President for Human Resources;  VPComms=Vice President for 
Communications;  VPR=Vice President for Research;  EVPT=Executive Vice President and Treasurer  
