Strategy 2023-2030
Building a Brighter Future, 
Together
Ngala Kwop Biddi
We acknowledge that Murdoch University is situated on the lands of the 
Whadjuk and Binjareb Noongar people. We pay our respects to their enduring 
and dynamic culture and the leadership of Noongar elders past and present. 
The boodjar (country) on which Murdoch University is located has for thousands 
of years been a place of learning. We at Murdoch University are proud to 
continue this long tradition.
We would like to thank Dr Richard Walley OAM and  
Mr Olman Walley for the Noongar naming of the strategy.
Designed and produced by Nani Creative. Supply Nation Registered.  
First Nations graphic by Buffie Corunna and Dana Garlett.
Contents
Introduction 4
Our Shared Purpose 6
Our Values 6
Our Principles 7
Our Vision 7
Our Strategy 8
Strategic Themes 10
 Sustainability 11
 Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 12
 First Nations 13
Core Activities 14
 Education 15
 Research 16
 Engagement 17
Enablers  18
 Empower and Develop our People 19
 Improve our Systems and Processes 19
 Develop and Enhance our Facilities 19
Size, Shape and Approach to Financial Management 20
Executing Our Strategy 21
Measuring Our Success 21
Looking Forward 22
Murdoch University has, from its 
foundation in 1974, been a University 
of Difference. Established as the 
second university in the State of 
Western Australia, Murdoch has 
always been associated with 
environment and conservation, 
social justice and inclusion, and 
providing pathways into and through 
a university education for people 
who had previously been excluded.
The world has changed dramatically since 1974. 
The human population of our shared planet 
has increased from 4 billion to 8 billion people. 
Carbon emissions have also doubled, while plastic 
production has increased 20-fold, to the extent 
that each year we produce the combined weight 
of every person alive in plastic. The impact of 
these activities on the environment has become 
increasingly evident and undeniable, and the 
need to achieve sustainable development 
has now become a central societal goal.
The revolution in digital technology and 
communications that has taken place has 
allowed development of the global transport 
and communication network, facilitating 
supply chains that span the globe, generating 
specialisation of national economies and 
seeing the rise of multinational companies 
rivalling countries in economic power.
The higher education sector has been similarly 
impacted. The Murdoch University of today 
has hundreds of students from overseas 
studying in our Australian campuses, while 
we also teach thousands of students who are 
based outside Australia through our Dubai 
and Singapore campuses. Technology has 
revolutionised the way we do business and the 
way we interact with and teach our students.
From 2020 to 2022, the COVID-19 pandemic 
disrupted society right around the world in a 
manner never experienced in human history. 
The transport network spread the virus between 
nations at a rate far exceeding any other previous 
pandemic. At the same time, the international 
research system supported the development of 
effective vaccines at a speed never previously 
attained. A key contributor to this development 
was the sharing of information as quickly as 
discoveries were made or data collected. 
The closing of borders and workplaces that 
formed part of national responses to the 
pandemic stimulated the development of 
alternative ways of working, particularly through 
the use of digital platforms. Many organisations 
and businesses were able to keep working at 
normal or above normal levels despite their 
entire workforce working from home. Universities 
were no exception, and many universities had 
students studying remotely for more than a year.
With disruption comes opportunity, and the 
pandemic experience has taught us many 
lessons about the true value of the campus 
university experience, and how we can effectively 
facilitate learning for students who cannot or 
do not want to attend campus in person.Over the last decade or so we have also seen a 
growing appreciation and valuing of Australia’s 
First Nations peoples, their traditional knowledges 
and their cultures. This is part of a global trend 
towards acknowledging the wrongs of the past 
and embracing Indigenous identities and cultures.
From 2017-2022, Murdoch University followed a 
five-year Strategic Plan with a 10-year horizon. The 
world has changed around us during these five 
years, and so we decided to review the 10-year 
horizon as part of the process to develop the next 
Strategic Plan. Noting that five years was not long 
enough to achieve the objectives of the previous 
plan, whilst too much change happens in 10 years 
for a plan to remain relevant, we decided our new 
Strategy would be for the period 2023-2030.
We then engaged with our stakeholders – students, 
staff, alumni, Indigenous voices, government and 
industry partners – to understand what they wanted 
to see in the Murdoch University of 2030, what 
attributes and skills we needed to be developing in 
our students to prepare them for the future, where 
our research should be focused, how we should 
be engaging with industry and the community, 
and so forth. Through surveys, focus groups and 
workshops, we assembled a picture of what the 
Murdoch University of the future should look like, 
and what we should be doing to get there.
From this process emerged an overwhelming 
desire for Murdoch University to restate its unique 
identity and distinctiveness, and a realisation 
that the characteristics which set Murdoch aside 
from the ‘pack’ are exactly what the future of our 
society both need and desire. We developed a 
vision for what that University should look like, 
and a restatement of our purpose and values.Three themes emerged that form both our identity 
and our focus for the future: Sustainability; Equity, 
Diversity and Inclusion; and First Nations. We 
saw how these three themes could flow through 
the three core activities of the University that 
date back to our Statute: Education; Research; 
and Engagement. We also saw how these 
activities need to be underpinned by a set of 
three enablers: our people; our systems and 
services; and our infrastructure. We debated 
as to whether sustainable finances, the global 
enabler, should be called out, but decided that 
underpinning the University Strategy with a 
sustainable financial plan would be sufficient.
From this process emerged a first draft of the 
Strategy, which was sent out to our stakeholder 
groups for comment. Following consideration 
of feedback on the first draft, a second draft 
was produced for consideration by Senate.
Some may see a contradiction in our commitment 
to sustainability with our intention to recruit 
more international students and engage more 
deeply internationally, as both activities generate 
additional air travel. We will minimise the carbon 
impact of this travel wherever possible, while 
recognising that a fully sustainable society requires 
the development of aircraft that are carbon neutral 
in operation, and we look forward to the time when 
our students and staff can travel internationally 
without generating a sizeable carbon footprint.
I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to 
the development of this Strategy, and I look forward 
to working with you to see our vision achieved.
Professor Andrew J Deeks  
Vice Chancellor and President  
Murdoch University
5
Our Shared Purpose
To change lives and society for the better through accessible 
education and research, contributing to the solution of societal 
and environmental challenges and providing an inclusive, caring 
community in which everyone can realise their potential.
Our Values
These five values guide how we behave individually and 
as a collective as we undertake our purpose.
Authenticity
Integrity
Respect
Inclusivity
Openness
6
Our Principles
These eight principles guide how we lead, manage and work together.  
We will:
• Act with justice, respect and responsible care 
• Be collegiate and respectful of other points of view 
• Protect academic freedom
• Be agile, flexible and resilient 
• Make decisions at the most appropriate level
• Be transparent in decision-making and with information
• Adopt common approaches to common tasks
• Be careful stewards of our resources 
Our Vision
Our vision is that Murdoch University will be widely recognised as the 
university of choice for people who care, who value inclusion, curiosity and 
innovation, and who desire to make a positive social impact. We will be a 
leading university in education, teaching and research in sustainability; a 
thriving, welcoming, diverse and inclusive community. Murdoch University 
will be the university of first choice for First Nations peoples, promoting 
and benefiting from Indigenous knowledges. Our quality education will 
be contemporary, accessible and inclusive. Our graduates will be keenly 
sought by employers and will be known for having adaptability, fresh 
perspectives, practical skills and a social conscience. Our research will be 
impactful, and we will have strong industry and institutional collaborations.
7
Our Strategy
To achieve our purpose and our vision, in this Strategy we set out three Strategic Themes that will flow 
through everything we do, and that, taken together, characterise the distinctiveness and identity of 
Murdoch University. We identify three Core Activities that are fundamental to achieving our purpose  
and can be traced back to the Murdoch University Act. For each strategic theme and each core activity 
we identify an overarching objective. Realising these six objectives will in turn allow us to realise our 
vision. We also set out three enablers that underpin the achievement of these objectives.
8
Sustainability
Be a leading university in education, teaching, 
and translational research in sustainability
Equity, diversity and inclusion
Build a welcoming, diverse and inclusive community
First Nations
Become the University of Choice for First Nations peoples
Education
Deliver contemporary, 
accessible and 
inclusive education
Research
Increase our 
impactful and 
progressive 
research
Engagement
Build our engagement 
with our local 
community, our State, 
our Nation, and our 
global society
People
Processes
Facilities

Strategic Themes
These strategic themes will guide and shape much of our activity over the lifetime of the Strategy.  
In addition, we have identified a specific objective for each theme, and key actions we will undertake 
to meet that objective. Each theme will be led by a Pro Vice Chancellor, who will be member of the 
Senior Leadership Team and chair a University-level working group to operationalise these and other 
actions in support of the objective.
10
Objective:  
Be a leading university in education, teaching, and 
translational research in sustainability, nurturing mindsets 
and creating solutions for a better and more sustainable 
world, a university renowned for its commitment to, and 
expertise in, sustainability and environmental, social, and 
corporate governance (ESG), providing a model and the 
tools for behaving and operating sustainably.
The biggest challenge facing humanity is to develop a sustainable global society 
that can survive for millennia without destroying the fragile ecosystems of our 
planet. To live sustainably, we must foster earth literacies and compassionate 
mindsets, advance social and technical competencies that help us develop 
and embrace clean technologies, and help eliminate waste in a circular 
economy where materials are reused and re-processed without a continual 
reliance on extraction of finite minerals from the environment. We must be 
able to produce foods and medicines, goods and services without depleting 
or damaging our environment. And we must protect the biodiversity of our 
living planet, upon which we are also reliant, to ensure quality of life for all. Since its foundation, Murdoch University has been a leader in sustainability, 
being a ‘green university’ committed to sustainability even before those 
terms had been coined. Our commitment to sustainability is authentic, 
deep-rooted and part of our identity as evidenced in our commitments 
to the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) and the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this Strategy, 
we restate our commitment to sustainability and ESG, undertaking to:
• Ensure a sustainability ethos guides all activities of the University 
• Become a recognised centre of excellence for sustainability and ESG,  
covering education, research and research translation, and professional 
development by 2030
• Develop and implement a campus sustainability plan to achieve truly 
sustainable campuses by 2030
• Develop and implement an operation sustainability plan to achieve carbon 
neutrality in our operations and 0% waste to landfill by 2030
• Develop and implement a university transport and commuting plan to move 
all transport and commuting associated with the University towards net zero
• Develop the Harry Butler Science Centre and through this Centre and other 
means, promote awareness of sustainability issues in Western Australian 
schools and in the community
• Ensure all Murdoch students and staff learn about and embrace the challenges 
facing the environment and the principles of sustainable developmentSustainability
11
Objective:  
Build a welcoming, diverse and inclusive community and 
environment that is equitable and safe, and that provides 
a culturally safe and supportive environment where all 
members of our community can realise their potential.
Widening access to higher education has long been recognised as an effective 
approach to levelling up society. Murdoch University, from its foundation, has 
provided access to higher education to people from non-traditional backgrounds 
and circumstances, along with a strong commitment to social justice.
Globalisation has seen increasing diversification of society: locally, nationally 
and globally. We are increasingly aware of both the strengths of diversity in 
effective working, but also the challenges of working in a culturally diverse 
environment. Through this Strategy, we will build on our strong, genuine 
commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and we commit to:
• Further diversify our student and staff body
• Build a culturally safe and inclusive study and work environment
• Engage proactively in EDI initiatives, including Athena Swan and our 
Reconciliation Action Plan, regularly tracking and reporting on all  
University commitments
• Develop/increase intercultural competency skills amongst students and staff
• Improve accessibility across campus
• Ensure Murdoch students and staff develop intercultural competency skills 
and embrace EDI and social justice principlesEquity, Diversity  
and Inclusion
12
Objective:  
Become the university of first choice for First Nations peoples, 
and an exemplar in embracing and promoting and benefiting 
from Indigenous knowledges and cultural inclusivity.
In recent times, awareness and recognition of the value of Australia’s Indigenous 
peoples, cultures and knowledges has increased dramatically, and there is 
increasing acknowledgement of the wrongs of the past. While elements of this 
process are uniquely Australian, as we have the privilege of being home to the 
oldest continuous culture in the world, this is also part of a worldwide movement 
towards recognising the value of First Nations peoples, cultures and knowledges.Over the last decade, Murdoch University has successfully built the number 
of Aboriginal students both studying at the University and successfully 
completing their studies, and we currently have the highest proportion of 
Aboriginal students at any Western Australian university, and a completion 
rate for these students that is similar to our non-Aboriginal student 
cohort. Building on this strong foundation, in this Strategy we will:
• Celebrate, respect, engage and learn from the original custodians of this land
• Build the proportion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in our 
domestic student body to match their representation in the general population
• Develop a Centre of Excellence in First Nation Peoples, Cultures and Knowledges
• Introduce dual signage wherever reasonable, including naming of buildings 
and significant sites
• Increase our employment of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island peoples to 
match the proportion in the general population
• Embrace truth-telling – find ways to tell the stories of the past treatment of 
Aboriginal people around campus
• Provide all students and staff with cultural awareness training and build within 
them an understanding of and respect for First Nations peoplesFirst Nations
13
Core Activities
Under the Murdoch University Act, the University is committed to core activities that can be broadly 
categorised as Education, Research, and Engagement. These activities are common to all research-led 
universities, and the distinctiveness of Murdoch University comes from the way the three strategic themes 
flow through these activities. To support the realisation of our vision, we have identified an overarching 
objective for each of our core activities and actions to support the achievement of the objective. Each 
core activity will be led at Senior Leadership Team level by a Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) who will 
chair a university-level committee to oversee the core activity and alignment with the Strategy.
14
Murdoch University has always been known for providing a supportive and 
flexible environment that adapts to its students rather than requiring its students 
to adapt to it. Murdoch University staff have a reputation for going above and 
beyond the call of duty to support the learning and progress of our students. 
Although student satisfaction remains high, the level of satisfaction has been 
falling slowly for some time and was particularly impacted by the pandemic 
experience of 2020-2022. Over the course of this Strategy, we will renew our 
commitment to quality education and the student experience, and we will:
• Undertake purposeful course design to address the themes, being adventurous
• Introduce a coherent program of micro-credentials and short courses, 
particularly in the Strategy theme areas
• Provide more flexible curriculum (Minors/Majors) combinations and  
flexible pathways
• Promote the campus experience while also accommodating hybrid learning
• Increase work integrated learning and the opportunities for students to have 
different placements, for example non-urban and internationalEducation
Objective:  
Deliver contemporary, accessible and inclusive education, 
with a high quality and engaging student experience, 
producing graduates who are adaptable and have fresh 
perspectives and a social conscience.
Research
Objective:  
Increase our impactful and progressive research in our areas 
of strength and excellent research across our disciplines.Over the last 10 years, Murdoch University has focused its research in the areas 
of Food, Health and the Environment, building on our historic strengths. We have 
recruited excellent established and early-career researchers in each area, and 
we have been growing both our research output and our research grant success 
in these areas. Despite the success of this approach, there has been a degree 
of dis-enfranchisement of academics whose research does not align with 
these areas. In this Strategy, we will continue to support and build our research 
institutes, but we will also support and build the broader research base of the 
University, ensuring we have quality research being undertaken in the areas in 
which we teach, so that all learning at Murdoch University is research-led. We will:
• Maintain research focus/support and broaden the base for staff engagement
• Promote and support research across our discipline base, both basic  
and applied
• Provide mentoring and peer support to increase research performance
• Build commercialisation, entrepreneurship and consultancy activities
• Enhance support for research project development
Engagement
Objective:  
Build engagement with our local community, our State,  
our Nation and our global society, creating mutually 
beneficial partnerships at all levels.Although Murdoch University has developed some good national and global 
partnerships in recent times, we have not always done this in a coordinated 
way, and our stakeholders would like to see more engagement with community, 
industry and like-minded organisations both locally and globally. With a DVC to 
lead this activity, we will take a more deliberate and structured approach to our 
engagement, increasing the impact of our education and research activities 
and enhancing our contribution to society. Among other activities we will:
• Build a portfolio of major strategic partnerships to mutual benefit
• Develop an internationalisation strategy, including Transnational Education, 
ensuring we get maximum benefit from our international engagement for our 
domestic students and our research
• Host more community events on campus and develop self-guided campus tours 
for visitors emphasising the cultural heritage and biodiversity of the campus
• Strengthen connections with alumni
• Tell our success stories, building our reputation
Enablers
These three enablers will underpin our ability to achieve our 
vision and will support the achievement of the six objectives 
outlined in this Strategy.
18
Empower and  
Develop our People
A university is fundamentally about people, and part 
of our purpose is to provide an accessible, inclusive, 
caring community in which everyone can realise 
their potential. In support of our people, we will:
• Develop an equitable and coherent workload 
allocation, development and promotion framework
• Favour continuing employment over casual or 
fixed-term employment
• Employ academics on a teaching and research 
basis as a norm
• Provide leadership skills development to all our 
leaders on an on-going basis
• Reintroduce research (sabbatical) leave when 
circumstances permit
• Undertake more social team building and 
community building events
• Investigate the provision of one free unit per 
semester for staffImprove our  
Systems and Processes
There is currently a large amount of frustration 
with our systems and processes. Starting with 
the appointment of a Chief Experience Officer, 
we will focus on the experience of our students 
and staff in using and navigating through our 
systems and processes, with the intention of 
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of how 
we do things, while at the same time enhancing 
the experience of those who interact with us. 
As part of this process, we will endeavour to:
• Provide people with critical tools, processes  
and systems to thrive
• Provide appropriate professional support  
linked to academic units
• Integrate our systems and use them to  
their capacity
• Improve digital capability across the  
student journey
• Simplify processes and reduce the number  
of layers of authorisationDevelop and  
Enhance our Facilities
We are fortunate to have an extensive, beautiful, 
bushland campus, with architecture that reflects our 
Australianness. The design of Boola Katitjin, our new 
academic building, exemplifies our commitment 
to the environment and blends well with our older 
architecture, providing a model for the future 
development of the South St campus. However, 
many of our buildings and facilities are now showing 
their age, and we need to invest strategically in 
upgrading our campuses. In particular, we intend to:
• Update the campus development plan to 
support the themes and to be porous
• Develop the Gateway site and link with the 
hospital precinct
• Upgrade facilities and buildings generally across 
our campuses, including laboratories and 
underlying technologies
• Engage disciplines with campus planning
• Further develop the campus student village
19
Size, Shape and Approach  
to Financial Management
Murdoch University has invested in Boola Katitjin, which will accommodate 
up to 60% of our current teaching and learning activities once it opens for 
Semester 1 2023. Our effective full time student load in 2022 is just under 10,000. 
By 2030 we anticipate having an effective full time student load of 15,000, of 
which approximately 40% will be international students who demonstrate 
the level of skills, knowledge and experience to successfully complete their 
chosen course. We anticipate on-going growth of approximately 3% in both 
domestic and international student cohorts post 2030 based on continuing 
growth in demand for higher education in our areas of speciality.
We anticipate retaining and growing our current academic disciplines,  
updating and changing course offerings in response to the developing world, 
and introducing niche courses that align with the strategic themes described 
in this Strategy where there is demand. We have co-designed a new academic 
structure that will support the delivery of this Strategy, empowering academic 
schools to identify and pursue opportunities that align with the Strategy.
From 2024, we will aim to generate an annual surplus of 5%, that will in turn 
be invested into the physical and digital infrastructure of the University. 
While expenditure budgets will be approved annually, we will put in place 
a rolling five-year budgeting process. Underpinning this process will be 
a budget model that returns 40% of additional revenue over and above 
a set baseline to the academic schools in expenditure budget. 
Recognising that the interaction between academics and students 
is fundamental to our purpose, we will seek to balance the ratio of 
academic staff and professional staff over the period of the Strategy, 
and we will aim to spend 60% of our revenue on staff salaries.
20
Executing Our Strategy
This overarching Strategy document will guide our planning and budgeting 
through to 2030. A separate strategy will be developed for each Strategic  
Theme, Core Activity and Enabler, aligning with and complementing this 
Strategy. These sub-strategies will specify additional objectives, actions and 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the relevant area. Each academic and 
operational area will develop their own rolling five-year plans to contribute 
towards the objectives identified here. The Senior Leadership Team will 
have oversight of the development and implementation of these plans. 
The University Leadership Team will meet twice yearly to review progress 
against the Strategy and consider any adjustments that should be 
needed. Senate will review progress at the annual Senate Strategy 
Day in a workshop attended by the University Leadership Team.
Measuring Our Success
As finding metrics to measure progress against the individual objectives we set 
out in this Strategy is challenging, we will measure our overall progress towards 
our vision through the following KPIs. For each performance indicator we will 
analyse our past performance and the performance of comparator institutions, 
and then we will agree targets for each with Senate. Whilst our Senate will continue 
to monitor our performance and sustainability from financial and governance 
perspectives, progress of our Strategy will be measured through the following KPIs:
• Student satisfaction (Student experience surveys, overall satisfaction  
% positive responses)
• Reputation (RepTrak reputation score)
• Staff satisfaction (Staff engagement survey, overall satisfaction  
% positive responses)
• Proportion of First Nations students (as a percentage of domestic student cohort)
• Student progression (% commencing students successfully completing  
a Murdoch course)
• Number of research publications (in Scival with Murdoch address)
• Net carbon emissions of operations 
• Proportion of waste going to land fill
21
Looking Forward
While the challenges facing our species and our world are considerable, 
Murdoch University is ideally placed to contribute to the solution of those 
challenges, while enabling our students and staff to realise their potential. 
Through this Strategy, we restate our commitment to values and causes 
that are fundamental to the identity of the University: the environment, 
conservation and sustainability; equality, diversity and inclusion and 
social justice; and First Nations peoples, cultures and knowledges. 
We are committing to creating the Murdoch University of the future, built 
on the foundations of the past, but embracing the advances in technology, 
understandings and approaches that have happened in recent times 
and that will continue to evolve through the period of this Strategy.
We look forward to working with our students, our staff, our alumni, 
our supporters and our global and local partners in pursuing 
our shared purpose and the vision we have set out here.
22
Disclaimer
The information contained in this publication 
was correct as at December 2022. 
© 2022 Murdoch University
This publication is copyright. 
Except as permitted by the Copyright Act no part of it may in any 
form or by any electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or 
any other means be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or be 
broadcast or transmitted without the prior permission of the publisher.
CRICOS Provider Code 00125J
Murdoch University  
90 South Street, Murdoch  
Western Australia 6150
Telephone: +61 9360 6000  
www.murdoch.edu.au
Printed on Revive 100% FSC® recycled certified
