 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Taiwan Normal University  
Strategic Development Plan  2020 -2025  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of Content  
I. Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  1 
II. The Challenges and Opportunities Facing Universities  ................................ ...........................  2 
III. The Strengths of NTNU Today  ................................ ................................ ................................  3 
IV. Mission  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 5 
V. Vision  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 5 
VI. University Development Goals and Strategies ................................ ................................ .........  5 
VII. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and Supporting Resources  ................................ ................  8 
1 
 I. Introduction  
One of the  oldest  institutions of higher education in Taiwan, National Taiwan Normal University 
(NTNU) , founded in 1922 as  Taihoku High School under Japanese rule, is fast approaching its 
centennial.  The school  was reorganized into  Taiwan Provincial Normal College  in 1946,  making it 
one of the  four institut ions that offered  higher education  in Taiwan  at the time . Following a status 
change  in 195 5, it was renamed  Taiwan Provincial Normal University , and woul d go on to become 
National Taiwan Normal University, a full-fledged national  institution , in 1967. Since its founding, 
NTNU has made teacher training its core mission , cultivating generations of global and domestic 
leaders and educators . With t he passage of the Teacher Education Act  in 1994, however, all colleges 
and universities in Taiwan  were given  the right to train teachers, meaning  that NTNU had to change 
and refo rm itself.  As a result, the university begin its transformation  into a comprehensive university . 
Currently, NTNU is comprise d of nine colleges ( i.e., colleges of Education, Liberal Arts, Sciences, 
Arts, Technology & Engineering, Sports & Recreation, International Studies & Social Sciences, 
Music, and Management) , with a student body of about 15,000, and offers degrees from bachelors to 
doctorates. Over the years, NTNU has excelled in all academic fronts . Besides  holding a globally 
leading position in education, the university  is also outstanding  in liberal arts, arts, music, and sports . 
NTNU ’s academic performance in science, engineering, and technology is internationally renowned; 
the university ’s management and social sciences programs are also the best in Taiwan . Despite the 
many challenge s NTNU has had to face, the university  persisted and has earned  wide re cognition for 
its contribution to the cultivation of talents for the country and humanity at larg e. 
In the 2015 -2019 University Strategic Development Plan, NTNU positioned itself as a  globally 
recognized comprehensive university . The university ’s objectives included nurturing  future  leaders 
well-versed in both humanities and sciences, conducting cutting -edge research  for the benefit of 
society, positioning the university  as a world -class  educational research hu b, establishing  unique  
overseas Chinese education  programs , and constructing an innovative base for arts and sports. NTNU  
was the recipient of the Ministry of Education ’s Aim for the Top University Project  in 2011, and went 
on to receive funding from the Higher Education Sprout Project  in 2018 . NTNU was ran ked 93 among 
Asian universities in 2019 by Times Higher Education  (THE) World University Rankings; it was 
ranked 15 globally in the field of education. In addition, NTNU was placed 331 in the 2020 QS World 
University Rankings. In terms of individual subjects, a total of 11 fields of study made the ranking, 
with Educatio n coming in at 31, and Library & Information  Studies at 50  globally . In terms of national 
standing , Global Views Monthly  ranked NTNU as Taiwan ’s top university in the “Arts, law, and 
business ” category. In the 2020 CommonWealth Magazine  USR University Citizen Survey, NTNU 
was ranked 4th in the “Public University ” category.  
In the 2020 -2025 University Strategic Development Plan, NTNU aims “To Lead in Asia, and 
Excel in the World ”. The strategic plan  has three pillars: Internationalizatio n, Social Impact, and 
Heritage & Innovat ion. NTNU  aspire s to speed up internationalization, foster ties with industries, 
work towards interdisciplinary integration, and promo te digital transformation. With persistent efforts 
2 
 from faculty and staff , and with its century -old heritage as its foundation, NTNU  is ready to embark 
on its next journey for the next hundred years to come.  
 
II. The Challenges and Opportunities  Facing Universities  
A. Challenges in Higher Education  
Higher education is the cradle of innovative talents . Social and economic growth  have been 
proven to be closely linked  with the development of the university. As such, it is important 
to be observant of social changes and examine future challenges  facing  universities as we 
draft our univer sity’s new strategic plan . The following describes the three major challenges 
facing universities in Taiwan and other advanced economies:  
 
1. Social Changes due to Globalization  
Since the start of the 20th century, the process of globalization has led to increased 
competition  and to a fre er exchange of goods,  services, and human capital . The 
resulting social changes have  also had a profound impact  on higher education 
institutes , their curriculum structure, pedagogical strategies, and modes of learning. 
Finding ways to address these challenges  is the top priority for the sustainable 
development of many universities  around the world . 
2. Chang es in  Job Market  Demand  
Digital technology advancement has had a tremendous impact on all industries.  In the 
digital age, some professions  could  gradually  lose their relevance , while others will 
emerge and prevail . How universities  adapt  their curriculum and pedagogy to equip 
students with  the most  in-demand skills is the second major challenge facing many  
universities.  
3. Changes in Demographics  
Declining birth  rates  in developed countries  are causing a shortage of labor, creating  
problems for universities in their  pursuit of excellence.  Taiwan , for instance, has an 
aging population , which increases  demand  for biomedical technology research and 
long-term care for the elderly . This is why  universities may need to reconstruct  
teaching , research, and budget ing accordingly . The changes in demographics is  
consequently the third major challenge  facing  universities.  
 
B. Shifting Trends  That Shapes the Future of  Higher Education  
To address these  issues , universities in Taiwan and other developed countries are actively 
tapping into their resources  and potential to work towards the  following  goals : 
1. Attract  international  talents and foster international partnerships for greater 
diversity  
Globaliz ation is reshaping the higher education landscape . Where  universities used 
3 
 to be confined  by geographical, political, social and language  barriers when trying to 
create an international  learning environment, that confinement has now been shake n 
up by new technolog y. Today ’s telecommunication technology  fosters  collaboration 
between universities, facilitating the formation of  cross -border, cross -domain higher 
education network s. Thinking  global ly, many universities are putting more and more 
emphasi s on  the importance of sustainable development in their strategic 
development , many of which are  in line with  United Nations ’ 2030 Sustainable 
Development Goals.  
 
2. Promot e digital transformation and build industry -academia collaborative links  
To address  the changing needs in the job market, universities are str iving towards 
digital transformation through the development of mobile learning, analysis  of 
learning statistics, and adoption of virtual and augmented realities. To improve 
students ’ digital literacy and bridge the gap between theory and practice, univers ities 
are also encouraging students to participate in domestic and international internships 
and industry -academia collaborative projects.  
 
3. Adjust org anizatio n structure and develop  innovative interdisciplinary 
education models  
Low birth  rates and aging populations  are pushing  many universities into structural 
transformations. These include  making  organizational adjustments and , alternatively, 
forming alliances with other universities for better sharing of resource s. Universities 
are also becoming increasingly focus ed on the cultivation of interdisciplinary talents 
as opposed to single -discipline  training. To facilitate  openness and inclusiveness  on 
campus , universities are making an effort to recruit underprivileged and minority 
student s. They are incorporat ing diverse and innovative teaching and learning 
practices , such as digital learning, micro -programs, industry -academia collaborative 
programs, open loop universities , etc., to better address  current social development  
needs , and fulfill  their social responsibilities.  
 
III. The Strengths of NTNU  Today  
1. A Long and Rich History with Innumerable Talented Faculty , Students , and 
Renowned Alumni  
Since the promulgation of the Teacher Education Act in 1994, teacher training has become 
more  diversified , and  NTNU has transformed itself into a comprehensive university. 
Although the word “Normal ” in the university name has been retained, its interpretation has 
also been updated to mean “to be a master at work, and to be a model in life ”. The first half 
of the ne w interpretation conveys the university ’s expectation and hope that its students will 
4 
 become masters and teachers, people  that others  would want to emulate in their respective 
fields. The second half asks students to be tolerant, well -learned, and well -mannered in life 
so as to become role model s for others. NTNU graduates can be found in all areas and 
professions. In add ition to filling the ranks of schools at all levels, NTNU has also nurtured 
experts and professionals in literature, education, arts, musi c, sciences, engineering, 
business , and so on. The university ’s 1-year post -graduation unemployment rate is only 
about 1.99%, far lower than the national a verage for the same age and education level 
(11.95% ~ 14.34%).  
 
2. A Wide Coverage of Fields with a Strong Internationalized Learning Environment  
NTNU  currently  has a total of 62 departments in nine colleges : College of Education, 
College of Liberal Arts, College of Science, College of Arts, College of Technology and 
Engineering, College of Sports and Re creation, College of Music, College of Management, 
and College of International Studies and Social Sciences. In the 2019 academic year, NTNU 
had a student body of 14,843 students, comprising  7,727 undergraduate, 5,796 master ’s 
level (including in -service p rofessional programs), and 1,320 doctoral students. For 
international learni ng, the university had a total of 1,394 international degree program 
students (including bachelor, master, doctoral programs), 558 exchange and visiting 
students, and 401 students studying abr oad through exchange and visitation programs. In 
addition, NTNU ’s Chinese learning program also on average attract s over 7,000 students 
from over 80 countries each year. All of these factors have  contributed to making NTNU 
one of the most culturally diverse u niversities in Taiwan.  
 
3. Consistent Global Ranking with High International Recognition  
The quality of education  at NTNU is evidenced by  its academic reputation, research 
potential, and international impact. NTNU was ranked  93 among Asian universities in 2019 
by the Times Higher Education  (THE)  World University Rankings. The same  ranking 
placed NTNU 15 globally in the field of education. In addition, NTNU was placed 331 in 
the 2020 QS World Universit y Rankings. Subject -wise,  a total of 11 fields of study made 
the list, with Education ranked 31  globally , and Library & Information sciences  coming in 
at 50. Domestically , NTNU was ranked by  Global Views Monthly  as Taiwan ’s top university 
in the “Arts, law, and bu siness ” category. In the 2020 CommonWealth Magazine  University 
Citizen Survey, NTNU was ranked 4 in the “Public General University ” category.  
 
 
 
 
5 
 IV. Mission  
The mission of Nation al Taiwan Normal University is to cultivate talents  through the pursuit of 
academic excellence , and to contribute to  the welfare of humanity  by sharing  our expertise and 
knowledge.  
 
V. Vision  
To inaugurate a  new chapter in education, NTNU shall actively foster an internationalized 
environment, develop industry -academia collaborations, promote interdisciplinary integration, and 
accelerate  digital transformation, so as to make NTNU a leading university in Asia  and in  the world.  
 
VI. University Development Goals and Strategies  
 Development Goals of the University , and Development Goals of Colleges and 
Administrative Units  
The “2020 -2025 University Strategic Development  Plan” adopt s both a top -down and bottom -
up alignment approach. In addition to the “Development Goals of the University ”, each college and 
administrative unit should also  develop  its own targets , strategies, and action  plans according to its 
purpose  and mission . The plans of colleges and administrative units should still be aligned  with the 
university ’s strategic  vision and key development goals . 
The below figure shows  how the development targets , strategies, and action plans of colleges 
and administrative units should come under the umbrella of the university ’s strategic  vision . 
6 
  
Figure. Development Goals of the University, and Development Goals of Colleges and 
Administrative Units  
 
University Goals and Strategies  
1. Global Compet ence  
To grow the university  into a leading education provider  in Asia and the world, NTNU  has made 
it a key priority to build an international  research and learning environment to develop global 
competence in students and faculty . We endeavor  to cultivate and nurture individuals  to become 
global citizens, deepen the ir mobility  and international outlook, and build international partnership 
network s to maximize  our impact. Working in tandem with the globalization efforts of our colleges, 
our targets for 2020 - 2025 include an outgoing student share of 25% , an international student share 
of 15% , over 1,500  incoming foreign students, and an international faculty share of 10%.  
To meet  these targets , we will:  
1) build  a learning environment  that is culturally  open and  inclusive ; 
2) nurture  young  talents into futur e global leaders and educators ;  
3) foster  intern ational academic collaborations ; 
4) deliver  globally  impactful research ; 
5) encourage involvement  in an international community; and  
6) fulfill our responsibility to global sustainable development . 
 

7 
 2. Interdisciplinary Collaboration  
Industry -academia collaboration will not only help students in employment, its research findings 
can also promote industry upgrades and drive socioeconomic development. NTNU has long  
demonstrated  excelle nce in fields  such as education, humanities, social sciences, technology, arts, an d 
sports , and  will continue to be a force to b e reckoned with for social development and economic 
growth. In a time where  humanity is being challenged in areas such as climate  change , disease, 
education  equity , and poverty,  NTNU  will join forces with local communities, industries, 
governments, and the  international community to contribute to local and global sustainable 
developments. In conjunction with our colleges ’ efforts in bridging the gap between industry and 
academia, our targets for 2020  - 2025 i nclude at least  1,000  industry -academia collaborative projects, 
over 900 patents and technology transfer cases , and  30% of our students interning in industries.  
To meet  these targets , we will:  
1) optimize our resources to create  a dive rse learning environment ; 
2) cultivate business -and-industry -ready talents;  
3) promote industry -academia collaborative projects;  
4) assist in industrial upgrade and economic development ; 
5) fulfill  university  social responsibilities; and  
6) ensure sustainable community development and innovation . 
 
3. Academic Excellence  
Single -subject knowledge may fall short of  solving of today ’s ever  more complex problems. 
Rather, we aspire  to step out of our comfort zone into interdisciplinary studies and innovate . In the 
future, NTNU will join forces with its colleges to promote interdisciplinary learning, cross -domain 
visionary research, and cross -boundary digital learning . By bonding  with our alum ni around the world, 
we can create an open learning environment for higher education.  In terms of academic excelle nce, 
we have set out several targets in the next five years.  By 2025, 50% of our student body are expected 
to have attempted , and 30%  complet ed, double majors, minors, or credit programs . As teacher training 
has been NTNU ’s hallmark feature and strength, it is our a spiration  to add teacher training as a 
primary practice  in our existing programs of early childhood education, secondary education, special 
education, and international baccalaureate educator certification by 2025. As such, NTNU will be 
able to provide a complete teacher training system that covers  all sp ectrums  from  kindergarten , high 
schools (K -12), special education, to international teacher training.  
To meet  these targets , we will:  
1) harness the power of  interdisciplinary studies  to drive innovation and entrepreneurship;  
2) strengthen  teacher training  at all levels  to maintain our leadership  in teacher education ; 
3) support  cutting -edge research and take initiatives in research advancement ; 
4) invest in  digital learning to facilitate  more  online learning opportunities;  and 
5) connect  with our alum ni from around the  world to open up new possibilities.  
 
8 
 4. Digital Transformation  
The future is uncertain , yet full of opportunities . Universities will have to be flexible with their 
organization to be able to seize new opportunities and create new outlooks. NTNU will continue to 
optimize  our administrative system, enhance  administrative efficiency, streamline fiscal  management , 
create a smart campus, and be our colleges ’ staunchest ba cking in their development. Our targets  for 
2020 – 2025 includ e upgrading existing classrooms to smarter and m ore interactive  ones, which shall 
account for  60% of our  total instructional spaces  by 2025 , and a satisfaction rate of 90% for students 
finding housing.  
To meet  these targets , we will:  
1) adjust organizational structure to seize  greater  opportunities  for development ; 
2) improve  administrative efficien cy to empower  academic performance ; 
3) streamline university  financial management to support and promote innovations ; and  
4) set up the infrastructure of  smart classrooms that serves as a pathway to  a smart campus . 
 
VII. Key Performanc e Indicators (KPI) and Support ing Resources  
1. Key Performance Indicators  (KPI)  
All colleges and department s must perform as planned, with demonstrable contributions to 
realiz ing NTNU ’s objectives, including Internationalization , Corporate Engagement , 
Multidisciplinary  Research  Support , and On-Campus Information Technology I nfrastructure. All 
administrative unit s must  support these efforts  through funding and resource allocation . To ensure 
delivery of these objectives , Key Performance Indicators  (KPI) are used to assess the performance of 
each academic and administrative unit .  
 
1) Internationalization  
i. The current percentage of our students participating in overseas programs is around  14%. 
The target is to have at least  25% of our 20 25 graduating class graduate with overseas 
program  experiences.  
ii. International students currently make up about 11% of our student body. The target  is 15% 
by 2025 . 
iii. Incoming international exchange student s currently  total 1,168. The target is 1,500 
individuals by 2025 . 
iv. The school currently employs  53 full-time foreign faculty  members  (including dual 
nationals). The target is to make foreign teachers account for 10% of the school ’s full -time 
faculty body by 2025.  
 
2) Corporate Engagement  
i. Industry -academia collaborative projects totaled  749 cases over the last six years . The  target 
is 1,000  between 2020 and 2025 . 
9 
 ii. Patent and technology transfer totaled  679 cases over the last six years . The target is 900  
between 2020 and 2025 . 
iii. Currently, a total of 319 NTNU students  are interning in industries . The target  for 2025  is 
a 30% int ernship completion rate for graduates.  
 
3) Multidisciplinary Research Support  
i. Those  pursuing a  double major,  double minor, or credit program currently  make up  34.88%  
of the student body . The target is 50% by 2025.  
ii. Those who have  completed a double major, double minor, or credit program currently make 
up 13.86%  of our graduating class . The target is 30% by 2025.  
iii. NTNU currently offers  teacher training  programs  in early childhood education, secondary 
school education, special education, and international educ ation. The target  is to establish  
an additional program in primary school education by 2025  for a holistic teacher training 
system.  
 
4) On-Campus Information Technology I nfrastructure   
i. By 2020, all  classrooms on campus have been  equipped with computers, projectors, and  
network  connections . The target for 2025 is to upgrade 60% of these classrooms to smarter 
and more interactive ones.  
ii. Digital services are to be fully integrated into NTNU ’s existing information technology 
infrastru cture. The target to make university services readily available with employee or 
student digital ID by 2025.  
iii. The school can currently satisfy the housing needs of 66% of students . The target is  90% 
by 2025.  
 
2. Supporting Resources  
NTNU will provide all units  with suitable suppor t, including funding, manpower, and space.  
1) Funding Support  
NTNU ’s final account for the 2019 fiscal year totaled  NT$6,127,305,216. In the upcoming years, 
in addition to current budget s, NTNU shall  seek funding for industry -academ ia collaboration  
projects , solicit donations from businesses and alum ni, and generate  income through space 
rentals , etc., to support our colleges and administrative units.  
1). Personnel Support  
NTNU currently has 915 full -time, contract ed, and project -based  instructors,  researchers, and 
teaching assistants. Supporting  staff and contractors currently total 734. Within the confines of 
hiring and funding  quota , NTNU will support our academic and administrative units in offering  
employment opportunities for both  R.O.C. and non-R.O.C. citizens . 
2). Provision of Space  
NTNU ’s Heping and Gongguan campuses currently total  223,682 square meters, with a total 
10 
 floor area of 341,841 square meters. Linkou campus  totals of 320,011 square meters,  with a total 
floor area of 91,567  square meters. NTNU will continue to evaluate  current  available spaces, 
expand instructional and research buildings, and enhance the efficient management of  space and 
facility to support  our instructional and research needs.  
 
  
 
 
