National Taiwan Univer sity – Office of Research and Development  
 
History  
    Established on April 1, 1996, the Committee of Research and Development consisting of 
five divisions was the administrative unit in charge  of NTU academic research. The five 
divisions were Divisions of Strategic Planning, Research Program Management, Innovation 
and Incubation, Service, and the International Academic Exchange Center. They were 
responsible for research planning, project manage ment, technology transfer and incubation 
business  in NTU.  
    On August 1, 2007, the Committee of Research and Development was renamed as the 
Office of Research and Development (ORD), with the mission of actively assisting teachers 
in the development of re search and innovation, resource injection, management and 
promotion of research and development results. The divisions under ORD were adjusted into 
Strategic Planning, Research Project Affairs, Industry -University Cooperation, and 
Technology Transfer. Mean while, the International Academic Exchange Center was 
restructured and renamed as the Office of International Affairs.  
    In 2009, the Divisions of Industry -University Cooperation, and Technology Transfer were 
merged into the Center for Industry -Universit y Cooperation, and later renamed to the Center 
of Industry -Academia Collaboration in January 2012.  
    In order to promote ethics review business, ORD established the Research Ethics Office 
for social and behavioral sciences as a functional secondary unit in July 2011, and changed its 
name to the Research Ethics Center (REC) in August 2017. In February 2019, For a better 
integrated university research ethics system, the REC was restructured as a secondary unit.  
    In response to the increasing industry -university cooperation business and optimizing the 
efficiency, the Division of Industry Collaboration Resources was established in May 2020, 
responsible for industry -university projects and research space management.  
Missions  
    It is the goal of National Ta iwan University (NTU) to become a top academic institution in 
Asia, as well as a world -class university in the 21st century. To achieve this goal, the Office 
of Research and Development (ORD) has made proactive efforts to promote academic 
research and deve lopment and has developed full -fledged plans to optimize the environment 
for research and industrial -academic cooperation. Research facilities and energy for 
industrial -academic cooperation have been reinforced, and university resources have been 
consolida ted to facilitate collaborative research, manpower training for basic research, and 
across -the-board upgrades in every field for key breakthroughs. With all the efforts, NTU is 
envisioned to attract talented individuals from home and abroad, maximize profi ts made from 
intellectual properties, and secure the leadership as well as its sustainable growth in Taiwan's 
academia.  
 
The missions of the ORD are as follows:  
• Secure NTU's leadership in academic research by strengthening, extending, and 
encouraging R&D i n every field in the University and creating a favorable research 
environment with optimized research facilities.  
• Provide comprehensive education through the integration of traditional and modern 
research activities in different disciplines; enhance resear ch capacity at the graduate 
institute level and facilitate academic cooperation and exchanges with prestigious 
research organizations overseas.  
• Encourage interdisciplinary R&D and practice among departments and graduate 
schools; support and facilitate effe ctive and non -conventional research with necessary 
administrative assistance.  
• Secure NTU's leadership in advanced technology R&D by providing adequate 
resources for research in new interdisciplinary fields (i.e. research which cannot be 
categorized in line  with conventional disciplinary classification).  
• Assist NTU faculty and research fellows to obtain government/corporate research 
funding and ensure accountability in the use of the funds after they are granted.  
• Establish a comprehensive human and animal te st ethics system to ensure research 
quality.  
• Promote international research cooperation projects and establish a platform that 
connects NTU research to the international community.  
• Strengthen industrial -academic cooperation and exchanges and encourage NTU 
faculty members to engage in the development and application of new resources and 
technologies in Taiwan; assist in the acquisition of patents and intellectual property 
management with the aim to incubate new technology industries and promote the 
sustainab le growth of the University.  
Future Prospects  
    NTU is envisioned to become a top academic institution and university both in Asia and in 
the world in the 21st century. To that end, NTU strives to achieve the following goals. 
(1)Research quality of NTU -affiliated units meets and even exceeds global standards. 
(2)NTU leads global research trends in key areas of expertise. (3)NTU -cultivated talents with 
an international perspective not only care for local communities but also lead the world. 
(4)Research res ults of NTU are transformed into industry performance in Taiwan.  
  
    To assist NTU in implementing the aforementioned goals, creating a high -quality research 
environment, and further leading the development of science and technology, the ORD not 
only supports NTU faculty in achieving academic excellence in general, but also integrates 
research teams from various disciplines, and put stress on the development of three euqally -
important domains: 1) humanities and social sciences, 2) basic sciences, and 3) applied 
sciences. In addition, the ORD seeks to facilitate more industrial -academic cooperation by 
transforming NTU's strong R&D power and innovative technologies into industry 
performance. Through technology transfer, technical services, and other services of the 
Innovation Incubation Center, the ORD strives to meet the goals of "knowledge 
industrialization" and "knowledgization of industrial structure".  
 
