A strategic plan for Northeastern’s College of Science
1.....Executive Summary
3.....Introduction
4.....Sustainability
5.....New Materials for Energy
7.....Health
10...Related Strategies
11...EducationIN THIS REPORT
2012
E X E C U T I V E  S U M M A R Y
We will build on the Marine Science Center 
in Nahant, Massachusetts to create a global 
center that addresses the mounting troubles 
facing coastal cities, including sea level rise, 
collapsing fisheries, invasive species, pollution 
and security. 
An important component will be to develop 
the connection of science and engineering 
to commerce, policy and law.  Urban coastal 
issues will form the centerpiece of our envi -
ronmental science and environmental studies 
programs.We have identified major science initiatives that assemble university-wide teams seeking global 
leadership in key areas of health, sustainability and security.  To maintain Northeastern’s 
continued academic ascendency, the next leap forward is to transform our graduate doctoral 
program. Our increasingly talented undergraduates seeking a global experiential education 
need more access to research experience and advanced graduate courses in their fields of 
interest. Anticipating significant faculty hiring allows us to be strategic and selective. The 
strategic initiatives, forged with strong partnerships, aim for world-leading research in the 
following areas:
SUSTAINABLE URBAN COASTAL 
ENVIRONMENTS
NEW MATERIALS FOR ENERGY
The energy problem is the number one threat 
to sustainability, yet adequate scientific solu -
tions in the form of materials and devices for 
energy production, efficient use, transfer and 
storage do not yet exist. 
New Materials for Energy - theory and simula -
tion of materials that builds on the university’s 
investments in high performance computing – 
promises solutions. 
Complementary experimental efforts in Li-air 
batteries, advanced solar cells and synthetic 
biology will realize new materials solutions.From our strengthened efforts in drug discov -
ery, delivery and diagnostics we will create a 
global institute that uniquely brings innovative 
scientific discovery together with social and 
legal approaches to combat the scourge of 
disease in under-developed countries. 
The institute will synergize with efforts to build 
our broader drug discovery and delivery plat -
forms and to develop diagnostics and imaging.  
Just as for materials, our ability to efficiently 
design targeted therapies and drugs for dis -
ease will ultimately be revolutionized through 
computational design approaches.INTEGRATED DISCOVERY INSTITUTE FOR 
NEGLECTED AND MICROBIAL DISEASE
E X E C U T I V E  S U M M A R Y
In addition we are nurturing other initiatives, par -
ticularly an Institute for Affective Science , with 
major expected impacts in health and security. 
While these thrusts focus on recruiting and sup -
porting faculty and graduate students at the 
cutting-edge in research, we will be equally in -
novative in experiential education, to improve the 
Northeastern Experience for our undergraduates.  
Plans include global partnering, hybrid course 
development and professional master’s de -
grees. PhD programs focused on interdisciplinary 
themes will be developed. Disciplinary expertise 
that underpins these thrusts and provides to our 
students the broad spectrum from basic to ap -
plied research will be nurtured. 
While the major initiatives are the centerpiece of 
our plan, COS will develop the base to support 
other university initiatives. 
To advance our strategy we need endowed chairs, 
student research fellowships, new laboratories 
and classrooms.
Dean J. Murray Gibson, College of Science
Northeastern University
No single institution could accomplish our ambitious 
goals alone; we are poised to expand our network of 
co-op and research partners to deepen our relation -
ships for mutual benefit.
The founding of a new College of Science in 2010 
makes this an excellent time for bold strategic plan -
ning. In 2011, we launched a new strategic planning 
exercise - Experience Science Northeastern 2015 - 
and engaged our faculty and other stakeholders in a 
broad discussion of ideas.  
Our initiatives are an integral part of the university’s 
larger long-range plan - covering sustainability, 
health and security. 
A strategic plan cannot be static; it must provide a 
dynamic vision to guide our institution for years and 
decades to come. 
This document is the fruit of our labors – it identifies 
compelling opportunities on which we must capital -
ize quickly. In doing so we will strengthen key ele -
ments of our global experiential education and cre -
ate world-leading graduate programs that will enrich 
our entire student body.INTRODUCTION
Photo: View of Boston from the MSC
The College of Science contributes to the unique 
global experiential mission of Northeastern Univer -
sity by delivering cutting-edge scientific education 
and research. 
The most powerful experiential science education 
occurs in a rich research environment that is strongly 
engaged with the real world. The challenges that 
face our lives and our society today are often in -
terdisciplinary; that is to say, their solution requires 
collaboration amongst innovators from diverse 
disciplines.  
Two people working closely together can often dis -
cover a solution that one person alone could never 
discover; accordingly, we facilitate a collaborative 
culture in the Northeastern experience. As we train 
future scientists, we recognize the importance of 
strong grounding in a discipline while providing a 
wide problem horizon and a team approach. 
We have advanced dramatically in our undergradu -
ate ranking, and must focus on our doctoral educa -
tion to support the needs of talented undergradu -
ates seeking research experience and advanced 
learning opportunities.  
Northeastern’s success and commitment to grow 
the faculty has presented us with an outstanding 
opportunity to expand our research horizons.  Only 
by strategic targeting of research directions can we 
maximize our impact.  
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainable Urban Coastal Environments
Presidential  Executive Order #13547 from July 19, 2010 shapes US policy that will “protect, 
maintain, and restore the health and biological diversity”, “bolster the conservation and 
sustainable use”, and “increase scientific understanding” of our ocean coastlines.
More than half of the world’s population lives by the 
coast, with a growing fraction in cities. Coastal cities 
contribute to half of the global GDP , and more than 
two-thirds of the world’s megacities are on the coast. 
Unprecedented global change is placing the world’s 
oceans and the functions, goods and services they 
provide in a precarious state. Human activities have 
led to rapid deterioration of these vital ecosystems. 
Coastal cities worldwide share a unique set of com -
mon issues that must be solved to achieve sustain -
ability. Challenges include climate change and sea-
level rise, collapsing fisheries, the spread of invasive 
species, the loss of biodiversity, increased coastal 
pollution, and port security. Building on the unique 
College of Science facility and faculty of the Marine 
Science Center, we will position the university to take 
global leadership in urban coastal research. Located 
on the ocean at the entrance to Boston Harbor, no 
other research station in North America is so well situ -
ated for this role as is our Marine Science Center in 
Nahant, Massachusetts.VISION
STRATEGY
We are marshaling the resources to address the criti -
cal need for sustainable urban coastal environments. 
In 2011 we hired an expert in fisheries biology, and 
merged the Marine Science Center with the Depart -
ment of Earth and Environmental Sciences to create 
a platform for our educational and research programs 
in sustainability. We have also created a new under -
graduate major in marine biology and raised over $2 
million to begin building improvements at the Marine 
Science Center.  We are in the middle of a hiring 
campaign to double the number of faculty focused on 
the effects of global change on coastal ecosystems, 
fisheries and mariculture, evolutionary and ecological 
genomics, earth-surface processes and the land-sea 
interface, ocean acidification, urban pollution, coastal 
remote sensing, coastal ecosystems engineering, OUTCOME
The new urban coastal focus for Northeastern’s 
Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences 
provides an outstanding opportunity to deepen the 
teaching and global research experiences for our 
undergraduate majors in environmental science and 
environmental studies, and to expand our gradu -
ate offerings. Our urban coastal research center will 
nurture advanced technology for sustainable devel -
opment and resource harvesting, stimulate visionary 
policy for sustainable economic development, and 
route a global network of resources and opportunities 
through Boston. conservation management and policy, and environ -
mental law. Several of these appointments will be 
joint with the Colleges of Engineering, Social Scienc -
es and Humanities, and the School of Law. Together 
with proposed developments in research and teach -
ing infrastructure at Nahant that will be supported 
through philanthropic, government and university 
resources, we will transform the Marine Science Cen -
ter into an internationally-recognized, interdisciplinary 
research hub for cities by the sea.
The Center for Urban Coastal Research at Nahant will have major 
upgrades for teaching and research.
N E W  M A T E R I A L S  F O R  E N E R G Y
VISION STRATEGY
The Department of Energy sponsored a study sev -
eral years ago: Directing Matter and Energy – Five 
Grand Challenges for Science and the Imagination 
which posed the question: how do we design atom 
and energy-efficient synthesis of new forms of mat -
ter with tailored properties? 
This question reflects frustration with our empirical 
approach to materials design that has not yet en -
abled us to develop materials with adequate proper -
ties to solve the problems of energy capture, trans -
fer, storage and efficient use that will be needed to 
achieve human sustainability. Yet the report demon -
strates the rich properties emerging from nanoscale 
structuring of materials, non-equilibrium process -
ing, and the complex correlations possible between 
atomic and electronic constituents, which offer an 
incredible palette of new possibilities for revolution -
ary materials and devices.
 
By building on a foundation of materials by design, 
we plan to assemble a leading team that will devel -
op new materials to address critical energy needs, 
especially the capture and storage of solar energy. 
Through sophisticated theory and modeling we will 
inform experimental efforts, taking full advantage of 
nanotechnology to make and tune new materials. As 
we develop our “virtual” materials laboratory, we will 
also strengthen our experimental capabilities for en -
ergy materials. We will target areas already emergent 
from NU research leadership - such as 
• Lithium-air batteries that offer the energy density 
of gasoline without the carbon footprint 
• Nanostructured dye-sensitized solar cells, which 
offer cheap capture of the most abundant re -
newable energy resource – the sun 
• Exotic topological insulators which can revolu -
tionize the computational hardware needed for 
materials by designIt is clear that the ultimate solution to finding the 
magical materials we seek will lie with better ability 
to describe theoretically and simulate the properties 
of materials using high-performance computing.  We 
have strong existing efforts to build on, such as the 
Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Complex 
Systems. Northeastern has invested in the Mas -
sachusetts High Performance Green Computing 
Center in Holyoke, a consortium of universities that 
are building a high-performance computing hub. 
This capability, when combined with our significant 
strength in materials synthesis and characterization, 
offers the opportunity for us to build leadership in 
New Materials for Energy.  We will team with the Col -
lege of Computer and Information Science to recruit 
leaders in physics, chemistry and biology who will 

N E W  M A T E R I A L S  F O R  E N E R G Y
OUTCOME
The New Materials for Energy Center will develop 
solutions that are aimed at more efficient or cheaper 
systems for collecting and storing energy. Strong 
government-industrial partnerships will facilitate in -
novation reaching to the marketplace, and will offer 
unique “soup to nuts” experience for undergradu -
ates. pioneer materials by design, building on the existing 
faculty in theory and simulation and our experimen -
tal capabilities.
We will recruit six new faculty in computational 
materials design over the next three years, comple -
mented by six new faculty in materials fabrication 
and characterization, with an emphasis on nanoma -
terials.
Linking structure, function and dynamics of mol -
ecules, materials  and systems brings together 
basic research in chemistry, biology and 
physics. Our initiative in 
computational science 
synergizes with strength in 
theory and mathematics, 
and connections between 
mathematics and 
other disciplines 
that we plan 
to develop.
Figure (Page 5): Topological 
insulators, studied at 
Northeastern could 
revolutionize transistors to switch spin 
instead of charge.
H E A LT H
Translating basic knowledge into improved hu -
man health will require new approaches to the 
development and delivery of drugs, and to the 
diagnostics that accompany their use.  
Northeastern University is already well estab -
lished as a leader in the area of drug discovery 
and delivery, hosting several major centers 
and partnering with hospitals and pharmaceu -
tical companies. Faculty in the Departments of 
Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Biology, and 
Physics are contributing to the current efforts 
spanning the Colleges of Science, Health Sci -
ences, Engineering, and Computer and Infor -
mation Science. 
To strengthen Northeastern’s impact, we rec -
ognize the growing importance of innovative 
diagnostics and theranostics, of personalized 
nanomedicince, the provision of advanced 
in-house platforms, e.g. for screening and 
medicinal chemistry, and the need to extend 
partnerships in the clinical domain.  
Beyond the current emphasis on small-mol -
ecule drug development, we aim to build on 
a unique platform in bioanlaytical technology 
that is intimately connected with the bio -
pharmaceuticals industry. This is the fastest 
growing component of the pharmaceuticals 
sector, where Northeastern’s Barnett Institute 
is playing a lead role advising the regulatory 
agencies on the new framework for generic 
biopharmaceuticals. We will expand our role 
into the biopharma discovery sector. 
The need for university involvement in the 
discovery stage has been recognized by the 
pharmaceutical industry; for example, Pfizer 
has just set up a $100 million Center for Therapeutic Innovation in Boston to couple 
more closely with academia and clinics in drug 
discovery. 
Additionally, our researchers are involved in 
a joint venture with the Dana Farber Cancer 
Institute concerned with repurposing FDA ap -
proved drugs and biopharmaceuticals. We ex -
pect to be able to win both federal and indus -
trial support, and capitalize on our successful 
co-op relationships at the undergraduate and 
graduate level.
Related challenges to those described for 
energy materials inhibit our ability to design 
accurately targeted therapies and drugs for 
disease. As we expose the molecular structure 
of life, we are just beginning to approach a 
truly rational design of therapies. 
We will need to understand mechanistically 
the scale from molecular to systemic, and this 
aim demands more sophisticated theory and 
simulation that challenges the power of com -
putation and algorithms.  With strong drug 
discovery, delivery, and diagnostics efforts at 
Northeastern, we are well positioned to de -
velop a leading effort in computational biology, 
which in turn will strengthen the clinical and 
experimental groups.
With targeted hiring, we will create at North -
eastern a powerhouse that is uniquely able to 
bring academic innovation together with the 
clinic and industry. In addition to strengthening 
our platforms, we will create a unique insti -
tute for neglected diseases that builds on our 
strength to address critical global health 
challenges.
VISIONIntegrated Institute for 
Neglected and Microbial Diseases
 Although tremendous advances have been 
made in our understanding and treatment of 
disease, major challenges remain in improving 
health for populations in the developing world.  
Complex issues such as inadequate therapies, 
poor infrastructure, governmental policy, and 
inadequate health care and education stifle 
progress.   
In the face of these multiple challenges, dis -
eases that are endemic in developing nations 
are repeatedly ‘neglected’ by scientists and 
pharmaceutical companies based in devel -
oped nations. Of the 1,556 new drugs devel -
oped from 1975 to 2004, tropical diseases and 
TB accounted for only 1.3 percent of them, 
despite making up 12 percent of the world’s 
disease burden.   
Diseases such as African Sleeping Sickness 
claim just as many lives as prostate cancer, 
but comparatively, the cure for this neglected 
disease has received much less attention. 
Meanwhile, the pharmaceutical industry is 
turning to academic centers to foster the 
translation of fundamental understanding into new drugs. 
We have a unique opportunity to combine our 
strength in drug discovery, delivery, and di -
agnostics with specific hires in parasitology, 
toxicology, policy and intellectual property to 
focus on understudied but deadly neglected 
and microbial diseases.
There is hope through repurposing existing 
drugs and drug discovery knowledge, since 
many biochemical mechanisms in neglected 
diseases are shared with well-studied mecha -
nisms in humans.
A unique aspect of our proposed integrated 
Institute is the coexistence of a drug discov -
ery/delivery/diagnostics effort with critical 
world health initiatives that address socioeco -
nomic, politica,l and legal issues.
 We aim to answer questions such as: how 
can intellectual property models incentivize re -
search in global health?  How can we navigate 
social and political constraints that interfere 
with effective disease surveillance?  

STRATEGY
A primary focus will be to repurpose drug can -
didates for the priority diseases of the devel -
oping world, building on the seed work of an 
existing effort at Northeastern. 
Using high-throughput drug screening, optimi -
zation and development techniques, we aim 
to examine the thousands of drug candidates 
that didn’t make it to market and test their effi -
cacy against neglected diseases. These leads 
can be optimized for safety and efficacy, and 
then implemented in clinical trials.  
A second technical focus of the program will 
be improved diagnostics that offer the ability 
to improve the efficacy and lessen the costs of 
implementing widespread disease treatment 
in the developing world. In addition, novel 
approaches to drug delivery (e.g. for antimi -
crobial therapeutics) will be explored. Disease 
targets will extend from traditionally neglected 
diseases to include tuberculosis and HIV/
AIDS. The Antimicrobial Discovery Center at North -
eastern develops strategies to cultivate and 
fight destructive bacteria, targeting, for exam -
ple, the mysterious persister cells that are re -
sponsible for antibiotic tolerance and chronic 
infections. Many neglected diseases are mi -
crobial in origin, and microbial diseases gener -
ally share with neglected and rare diseases an 
inadequate emphasis in the pharmaceutical 
industry’s revenue-based drug development 
model. 
We will seek to hire 10 new faculty, and take 
advantage of much of the existing infrastruc -
ture to create a world-leading team. Some of 
the team will come from industry, where many 
pharma companies are scaling back neglected 
disease efforts. Agencies, foundations and 
companies are now looking to academia to fill 
the void.
OUTCOME
We see the juncture of the public policy/social 
sciences activities with the science-driven 
drug development as a nexus that will at -
tract investment and recruit students to team 
across the world and address this critical 
world health problem. 
We know of no team that is currently able to 
cover both science and policy challenges for 
neglected and microbial diseases. From our 
science and policy combination, we will make 
real impacts on many lives through new com -
pounds and better development, delivery, and 
surveillance. 
The institute will strengthen our graduate and 
undergraduate education, and provide global 
co-op experiences for our students.
This and other health initiatives require in -
creased computational capability and genom -
ics. Imaging and new advanced bioanalytical 
methods add a major capability to our drug 
discovery, delivery and diagnostics efforts as 
exemplified by the Center for Translational 
Neuroimaging. 
A major player in the university’s security and 
health initiatives will be a developing Affective 
Science Institute , building on several promi -
nent recent hires in psychology.  
Modern psychology has adopted the word 
“affect” to refer to any mental process or phe -
nomena having to do with emotional states.  
Affect can serve as the basis for moral judg -
ments of right and wrong, for judgments of 
how much we want to obtain something or 
avoid something else, or even for what trade-
offs we’re willing to make in decisions central 
to many realms (e.g., climate change, health 
behavior, military operations). 
While at present we are investing seed fund -
ing, the Affective Science Institute has the po -
tential to become a major university initiative in 
the coming years. 
Our understanding of human motor behavior 
will be strengthened in a joint effort with Bouvé 
to address the needs of elderly or injured pa -
tients. The effort also supports motion simula -
tion for the university initiative in game design.  
We will develop our core strength in biology, 
chemical biology and biophysics to support 
our health initiatives, and augment existing 
centers. Our prominence as an institution dedicated to the training of health research 
professionals will be enhanced as we secure 
new training grants, complementing those 
already in place (IGERT Nanomedicine, NIDA 
T32 training program in the Center for Drug 
Discovery, and the DOE Radiomedicinal 
Chemistry training grant).
Imaging, perception and visualization are key 
elements of several major initiatives including 
health diagnostics and security. The college 
aims to strengthen imaging from a mathemati -
cal and perceptual direction, complementing 
efforts in engineering and computer science.  
A centerpiece of Northeastern’s current lead -
ership is our world-leading effort in network 
science and we will build on this to address 
problems in health, security and sustainability, 
complementing our computational science en -
terprise. Fundamental research, e.g. in math -
ematics and physics, will support our intellec -
tual enterprise and help us attract outstanding 
students.
All the initiatives described above rely heavily 
on strong connections between fundamental 
and applied research and engineering. We will 
continue to support key disciplinary strengths 
in the science fields, and will seek innovative 
intellectual efforts with no obvious applied 
connections, such as a Mathematical Physics 
Center that would capitalize on the intellectual 
opportunities created by new theories in fun -
damental particle physics and mathematics.
R E L AT E D  S T R AT E G I E S
E D U C AT I O N
educational delivery to increase the base of 
support for our campus programs, and engage 
the faculty in maintaining the high standard 
and innovation level of those products.
With Northeastern’s growing impact in inter -
disciplinary research, we have an opportunity 
to rethink undergraduate and graduate educa -
tion that combines disciplinary knowledge with 
an interdisciplinary approach. In strengthening 
our graduate programs, we will create inter -
disciplinary PhD’s to focus on emergent fields 
that often span more than one department or 
college. Examples include network science, 
and nanomedicine. These programs will attract 
cutting-edge students because they represent 
areas where our faculty and impact is world-
leading.
The nation needs more trained scientists for 
the STEM workforce.  Fifteen of the 20 fast -Higher education is challenged by the poten -
tially “disruptive technology” of online educa -
tion. As online education matures, it threatens 
to undercut the model by which research 
universities operate. Yet in science it is clear 
that the richest education comes from the in -
volvement of real scientists, and real scientists 
will be involved in research. What we must do 
is find ways to leverage from the incredible 
developments in the technology of education 
delivery, so that we can reduce the cost and 
increase the effectiveness of an on-campus 
education. 
Through “hybrid” learning we will free the time 
of our research faculty for more one-on-one 
rich interactions with students, and make 
learning more flexible and convenient.  Build -
ing on the co-op experience, we can weave 
research more intimately into our curriculum.  
At the same time, we must expand remote 
science career placement. The Northeastern 
Experience is a hallmark today that combines 
experiential education, outstanding faculty and 
unique facilities and location to create a brand 
of undergraduate education that is ever more 
in demand. Facing increased recognition of 
this brand, and attracting increasingly impres -
sive students each year, we must continue to 
strengthen the Northeastern Experience. 
Increased flexibility in the curriculum, le -
veraging of technology in education, more 
advanced learning opportunities at the un -
dergraduate level, including research experi -
ences, and many more global experiences are 
key elements which we will strengthen. These 
developments fit hand in glove with our re -
search strategies that will bring us more global 
co-op and other learning opportunities.est growing professions in 2014 will require a 
strong understanding of science, technology, 
engineering or math (STEM), according to the 
U.S. Department of Labor. We will reach out to 
non-scientists and offer them enticing oppor -
tunities to learn about science.  K-12 outreach 
is equally important. We see the Marine Sci -
ence Center as the focus of growing outreach 
programs in sustainability for K-12 and the 
general public.
The recent Obama Administration report on 
the national urgency for better STEM educa -
tion of the workforce emphasizes the impor -
tance of retaining undergraduate science stu -
dents and delivering them into STEM careers.  
We at Northeastern are at the cutting edge 
through our unique brand of experiential edu -
cation that integrates training and work expe -
rience with demonstrated positive effect on 
