Openness  
We d efined it as individuals and organizations sharing a common foundation,  
competing and building together, overcoming internal and external obstacles,  
and collaborating to create new knowledge and lasting impact for society.  
 
A Message – President Shojiro Nishio  
 
 We believe that the mission of the university is to create a better future through the 
cultivation of comprehensive knowledge, not only for the advancement of science and 
technology, but also for a profound understanding of humankind and society. Aware 
of our social responsibility and by building on our inherited historical legacy, Osaka 
University hereby presents its “Osaka University Vision 2021.”  
 This vision is set to reali ze the principles of the Osaka University Charter, the 
proclamation issued when we became a national university corporation in 2004. 
While affirming our fundamental commitment to outstanding research and education, 
the vision also calls for openness – internally among departments in the university, 
and externally through open dialogue and interaction with society. This openness will 
be the unifying principle of our improvements in the next six years leading to our 90th 
anniversary in 2021.  
 Osaka University ’s quest for openness dates back to the civic -mindedness of two 
academies of the Edo period, known as Kaitokudo and Tekijuku. Both institutions 
were established with the support of local citizens and thrived in the vibrant and 
liberal atmosphere of the cit y. The university has embraced the spirit, diversity and 
aspirations of these schools and has nurtured students who strive to achieve 
excellence in their sincere yet humble search for the truth. The university’s motto of 
“Live locally, grow globally” manif ests our inherited commitment to always 
contribute to society.  
 Contemporary society is faced with global -scale challenges — the deterioration of 
the environment, the depletion of natural resources, ethnic and religious strife, just to 
name a few examples.  Rocked by a burgeoning wave of globalization, we humans 
seem to have lost tolerance and open -mindedness, having wandered from the path to 
peace. In these challenging times, the mission of a university is to create 
comprehensive knowledge, that is, knowled ge to advance science and technology to 
ensure sustainability, as well as to cultivate wisdom to comprehend the state of 
humankind and society. We believe such comprehensive knowledge lays the 
groundwork for a better future.  
 To maximize the full potential  of the comprehensive knowledge we create, the 
university must overcome internal and external barriers to openness. We aim to 
compose, orchestrate and harmonize knowledge, integrating innovations from all 
disciplines and all sectors of society, mobilizing our students, faculty and staff. 
Through such “kyoso (orchestration)” and “kyoso (co -creation)” of knowledge, Osaka 
University realizes the full potential of our synergies. Open collaboration will in turn 
bring new ideas that strengthen our university comm unity. It is through this openness 
that we will become a world -leading comprehensive research university. This brings 
us to the five themes of our vision: Open Education, Open Research, Open 
Innovation, Open Community and Open Governance.  
 
Open Education  
Vision  
Principally, education at Osaka University foc uses on developing talent that understands the 
essence of scholarship, and develops the three following attributes: critical thinking, 
transcultural communicability, and design prowess. We will foster these abilities by nurturing 
students to have a sophist icated academic background with a wide -range of personal views 
which will contribute to sound societal judgement (critical thinking), the know -how to 
communicate with people of different cultural backgrounds (transcultural communicability), 
and the ability  to freely exercise the imagination and create networks that bring diverse 
parties together (design prowess).  
 
Internationally, the world faces a number of complex issues, while domestically Japan is rife 
with a number of problems affecting first world nat ions, including population decline and an 
aging society. Against this backdrop, today’s society requires an education that teaches how 
to identify the essence of each problem and develop solutions, rather than a closed approach, 
with individuals only focus ing on their own areas of study. In this sense, Osaka University is 
on an important mission to nurture those with an innovative mindset and the ability to create 
new values for the good of society, by integrating and applying a diverse range of knowledge 
and techniques possessed by the university.  
Goals 
• Provide education and training to undergraduates to respond to the needs of society  
• Promote graduate education t o nurture the motivation to create new values for society  
• Reform the ongoing university system to provide internationally compatible education  
• Reform the existing entrance examination system to admit students of diverse 
backgrounds  
• Create a learning enviro nment conducive to the diversity of learning  
 
Open Research  
 
Vision  
 
At Osaka University, we are determined to contribute to the resolution of worldwide issues 
and the growth of soc iety by evolving into a world -leading comprehensive research 
university in line with our Open Research policy. To this end, Osaka University is creating a 
versatile range of knowledge through basic, fundamental and interdisciplinary integrated 
research of the world’s highest level and delving deeper into such knowledge. This initiative 
is being led by the superior research prowess and state -of-the-art equipment held at Osaka 
University's Joint -Use/National Joint -Use Facilities, research labs, and the World Premier 
International Research Center (WPI).  
 
With the age of “super big data” just around the corner, it is imperative that a strong 
integration of big data and the creation of new intellectual value is implemented for the safety 
and security of society. We will make the most of our advanced information -related 
technologies to explore new scientific methodologies by means of “datability,” which is the 
ability to handle very large amounts of available data in a responsible manner while ensuring 
the sustaina bility of such data into the future. The concept of “datability” will open up a new 
horizon for today’s science, technology and academic studies and become the foundation of 
new interdisciplinary integrated research.  
 
This foundation of research will, in t urn, enable us to nurture researchers with outstanding 
research management skills and a high ethical sense, and help Osaka University attract talent 
from diverse sectors of society who are capable of playing a leading role in contributing to 
the academic e xcellence of Japan.  
 
Goals 
• Strengthen and internationalize the foundation of academic research to master the 
essence of scholarship  
• Create an environment where  research misconduct and misuse of research funds never 
occurs and raise the awareness of staff and students of the university  
• Develop the world’s top -class research centers  
• Create new academic realms by integrating different fields of study based on 
datab ility 
• Train new researchers towards accessible career prospects  
• Promote distinct Joint -Use/National Joint -Use Facilities as hubs for advanced 
knowledge  
 
Open Innovation  
Vision  
Promoting Open Innovation is the key to solving the global and complex problems that face 
humanity and creating a better future society. As one of the most in novative universities in 
the world, Osaka University is committed to raising the level of its collaboration with 
industry even higher.  
 
Osaka University will bring about a paradigm shift in the conventional style of industry -
university collaboration, and l aunch “industry -university co -creation” efforts to create new 
social values. In doing so, we aim not only to develop new technologies and services, but also 
to extend our collaboration to different sectors and fields, both domestic and foreign, to cater 
to the needs of users of such technologies and services. The mingling of diverse expectations 
and desires give rise to new social issues. Osaka University is determined to advance to a 
new stage of Open Innovation to construct new systems by presenting solut ions to such social 
issues.  
 
The “industry -university co -creation” concept advocated by Osaka University enables all 
people involved to inspire each other with their talents, ideas, and personal creativity. This 
process helps to produce individuals with th e ability to think about their true roles, in other 
words, the ability to recognize the importance of “what to do,” creating a favorable 
circulation of personnel and values between society and the university.  
Goals  
• Promote Osaka University -style comprehensive industry -university co -creation  
• Drive the commercialization of translational research by leveraging medical, dental 
and pharmaceutical networks in Osaka  
• Establish a center for  development through industry -university co -creation  
• Share innovative technologies with society through investment projects  
 
Open Community  
 
Vision  
 
Universities, as “a locale of knowledgeable discourse,” are open to local communities, the 
global society, and allow knowledge to flow freely. Osaka University will create an Open 
Commun ity for a diverse range of knowledge and people to meet and collaborate with each 
other to develop new values, thus putting into practice its motto “Live locally, grow 
globally.”  
As the successor to the spirit of Kaitokudo and Tekijuku, we are ready to con tribute to the 
local community as a regional center for science, culture, art, and medicine. We will also take 
every opportunity to develop cooperative ties with community leaders, and together explore 
what we can do for the betterment of society. In doing  so, we aim to maximize our potential 
as a comprehensive university.  
In addition, we will interact with the global society more positively and further enhance our 
educational and research activities through healthy competition with people of diverse 
cultur al backgrounds. To tackle the complex problems that face humanity and open up a 
bright future, we will enhance the internal programs for academic exchange, international 
cooperation, and international industry -university co -creation by making use of our gl obal 
networks, thereby reinforcing the activities at the university’s overseas centers.  
We will create a campus environment where diversity, whether related to culture, language or 
gender, is respected and valued, and build an Open Community supported by a n 
intergenerational network of alumni and former staff of the university, so that the experience 
of having studied or worked at Osaka University will be recalled with pleasure and pride by 
all people concerned.  
Goals  
• Create a regional center for science, culture, and art through community -university 
co-creation  
• Further improve the University Hospitals to better contribute to health care both 
locally and globally  
• Orchestrate and co -create knowledge by expanding global networks  
• Create an open, sustainable campus  
• Create an intergenerational network by launching new PR initiatives  
Open Governance  
Vision  
Building on the tradition of continuou s self -reform, Osaka University, as a center of learning, 
has continued to set and pursue higher goals in all the fields of education, research, and social 
contribution with the spirit of autonomy and independence. Today, Japanese universities have 
reached  a turning point, and Osaka University recognizes the necessity of placing greater 
importance on diversity and endeavoring to maximize the potential of students, staff and all 
other members of the university. Thus, we will mobilize the potential of each an d every 
individual at the university and encourage all the departments of the university to improve 
themselves and make a new start through self -reform so that we can leap even higher and 
further, briskly and smartly, as a world -leading comprehensive resea rch university. For this 
purpose, we will engage in the management of the university by balancing the leadership of 
the President and the consensus of the members of the university and promote highly 
transparent Open Governance.  
 
Specifically, we will prom ote stable and healthy university management from a mid - to long -
term perspective, and take positive measures to train experts on university management in the 
areas of international, financial, and legal affairs, as well as public relations. Through their 
efforts, we will create an environment where members of the university can experience the 
joys of education, research, and work, leading Osaka University to be the frontrunner to bring 
Japan to a brighter future.  
Goals  
• Ensure higher -level transparency in university management by striking the right 
balance between decision -making by leadership and that by consensus  
• Create an attractive environment that promotes gen der equality and enables every 
member of the university to enjoy studying and working  
• Hire, train, and retain high -caliber individuals and experts to support university 
management  
• Ensure stable university management based on a mid - to long -term financial v ision  
• Secure internal sources of income to ensure healthy and stable management  
• Create a safe, comfortable and sustainable environment for education and research  
 
