OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 01
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY
02
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 
We shape tomorrow through  
our unique blend of the  
modern and the traditional, 
by embracing diversity, seeking 
out the new and excelling in 
education and research.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 03
Contents
04 Introduction
10 Oxford Brookes University 2035 Vision statement  
11 Oxford Brookes University 2035 Vision        
12 Oxford Brookes University Educational Character statement  
14 Guiding Principles and Associated Exemplar Behaviours  
16 Education and Enterprise Pillar 2035 vision statement  
18 Research and Innovation Pillar 2035 vision statement  
20 People and Culture Pillar 2035 vision statement  
22 Partnerships and Place Pillar 2035 vision statement  
25 Appendices (Operational Plans for Immediate Priorities 2020-2022)
26 Appendix 1
 Education and Enterprise pillar Operational Plan Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
27 Appendix 2
 Resear ch & Innovation pillar Operational Plan Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
28 Appendix 3
 People and Cultur e Pillar Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
30 Appendix 4
 Partnerships & Place Operational Plan Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
31 Appendices (5 year strategic plans)
32 Appendix 5
 Education and Enterprise 5 year strategic plan  
34 Appendix 6
 Resear ch and Innovation 5 year strategic plan
36 Appendix 7
 People and Cultur e 5 year strategic plan
38 Appendix 8 
 Partnerships and Place 5 year strategic pla n
04
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Introduction
This strategy sets out our focus and priorities for the next 15 years. We 
have worked closely with our students, staff, local community and other 
stakeholders to create a new strategy for Oxford Brookes University for 
2020/2021 and beyond. As part of this work we have articulated our bold and 
ambitious 2035 Vision Statement as an expression of the kind of institution 
we want to be in 2035 and the steps we will take in order to achieve this 
vision. 
We are proud to launch a new Guiding Principle for Oxford Brookes as part of this 
strategy, that of Inclusivity. This new Guiding Principle now sits alongside our 
established principles of Confidence, Enterprising Creativity, Connectedness 
and Generosity of Spirit. The launch of our new strategy offers the opportunity to 
reassert our commitment to taking positive steps to create an environment in which 
we celebrate, value, and provide equal opportunity to all. 
As part of our strategy development work, we examined the context for the 
new Strategy, including Brookes’ current strengths and areas for improvement 
and innovation. We took into account the competitive environment and future 
developments such as the digital agenda and the university’s regional, national 
and international positioning. As work on the strategy progressed we factored in a 
complete reprioritisation of our aims in light of the global outbreak of Coronavirus 
and the steps required for the University to successfully recover and indeed gain strength in the future.
 
University Governors worked closely with us to define the Educational Character 
of the institution, which serves as a foundation for the strategy along with the 
university’s guiding principles. 
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 05
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Oxford Brookes 2035 Vision Statement
Oxford Brookes University is distinctive in nature. It is a modern, forward 
thinking institution rooted in and connected to a city with a rich history 
of culture and learning. Through our excellence in teaching, research and 
knowledge exchange we make the world a better and fairer place.
We are internationally respected for our bold leadership and innovation in education; 
for helping organisations to develop sustainably; and for impactful research that is 
changing the world.
We equip people with the skills, knowledge, mind-set, and attributes required to face 
new challenges and thrive in a complex, uncertain world.
We inspire and drive collective progress through individual endeavour. Our inclusive 
and friendly community is our greatest asset. We embrace supportive challenge 
as a catalyst for change. Through the open exchange of knowledge and ideas, by prioritising the progression of equality, diversity and inclusion and seeking out the 
new, we shape tomorrow.
In bringing together education,  
research and knowledge  
exchange we drive collective  
progress through individual  
endeavour. 
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 
2035 Vision 
Education and  
EnterpriseResearch and  
InnovationPeople 
and
CulturePartnerships 
and Place
EnablersGuiding Principles
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 The core fundamentals of the University are Education and Enterprise, Research and 
Innovation, Partnerships and Place and People and Culture. These four fundamental areas 
are the pillars of the strategy. For each pillar we have an overarching vision statement, a five-
year strategic plan, as well as a set of two-year immediate priorities in light of the outbreak of Coronavirus and the University’s plan for recovery and innovation in the face of this.
EXTERNAL-LINK-ALT 
PositioningPound-Sign 
FinanceHOME 
Environmentsuser 
PeopleEYE 
Culture2020-2025 strategic plan
Id-badge 
AlumniShopping-basket 
ProductThumbtack 
Placehandshake 
Partnerships 
Digital06
07
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Guiding Principles 
edit
INCLUSIVITY
We take positive steps to create an environment 
in which we celebrate, value, and provide 
equal opportunity to all.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Guiding Principles 08
edit
CONFIDENCE
We have confidence in our staff and students, and we know  
that we prepare our graduates well for a fulfilling and valuable 
life. Through their success, we continue to earn our  
outstanding reputation.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Guiding Principles 09
edit
ENTERPRISING 
CREATIVITY
We’re adaptable and flexible, and consider a fresh approach  
in everything we do - because we know our sustainability 
depends on a pioneering spirit.
Guiding Principles 10
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 edit
CONNECTEDNESS
Our academic excellence is underpinned by a history of 
learning by doing. Our connections and our Oxford roots are 
fundamental to our students’ and staff members’ experiences 
and our successful future.
11
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Guiding Principles 
edit
GENEROSITY  
OF SPIRIT
Our students and staff manifest a generosity of spirit as they 
progress in the world by being open and willing to share their 
abilities, knowledge and experience, sometimes making difficult 
decisions, but always in the interest of the wider community.
12
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Guiding Principles and Associated  
Exemplar Behaviours
GUIDING PRINCIPLES EXEMPLAR BEHAVIOURS
Confidence:  We have confidence in our staff 
and students, and we know that 
we prepare our graduates well for 
a fulfilling and valuable life. Through 
their success, we continue to earn 
our outstanding reputation.●
 Showing pride in your work and achievements and 
those of your colleagues / peers
● T reating any failure as an opportunity to learn and develop
● Recognising that you can make a differ ence through 
your work and/or studies
● Stepping outside of your comfort zone to lear n,  
or achieve, something new
● Raising awar eness of poor practice or behaviour,  
and challenging it constructively when you see it
Enterprising creativity:  We’re adaptable and flexible, and consider a fresh approach in everything we do - because we know our sustainability depends on a pioneering spirit.●  Being innovative, flexible and open to change 
●
 W orking with, learning from, and sharing with others 
● Looking outside your own envir onment to find solutions 
to problems 
● Using constructive feedback and r egularly looking to  
improve the way we do things
● Envir onmental sustainability and value for money being 
central to your decision making
Connectedness: 
Our academic excellence is  underpinned by a history of learning by doing. Our connections and our Oxford roots are fundamental to our students’ and staff members’  experiences and our successful future.●
 W orking in partnership with our global and local  
communities
● Keeping up to date with r esearch, rules, regulations and 
important information and models of best practice from a wide range and variety of sources
●
 T aking responsibility for your own development and 
taking advantage of appropriate opportunities, local or global when they arise
●
 Making evidence based decisions and taking advantage 
of appropriate resources (and thinking about what  information might be useful in the future) when working and /or learning
●
 Ensuring that colleagues/students/lectur ers/peers have 
all of the appropriate information that you should provide them, in order for them to make informed decisions.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 13
GUIDING PRINCIPLES EXEMPLAR BEHAVIOURS
Generosity of spirit:
Our students and staff manifest a
generosity of spirit as they progress 
in the world by being open and willing 
to share their abilities, knowledge and 
experience, sometimes making  
difficult decisions, but always in the
interest of the wider community.● Being open, honest and r eliable
● T reating others with the dignity and respect that any
reasonable audience would expect
● T aking prompt action in cases of unprofessional,  
unethical or unreasonable behaviour
● Being gener ous with your knowledge and expertise to 
help others
● Showing r espect for diverse points of view and  
balancing your right to free speech with a recognition 
that you should communicate in ways that do not  unreasonably offend others
●
 Whilst working and/or studying with others, making an
appropriate contribution that is your own work and not using other people’s work or contributions as your own
Inclusivity: 
We take positive steps to create anenvironment in which we celebrate, value, and provide equal opportunity to all.●  Critically examining your own biases and behaviours 
both through self-reflection and feedback from others 
●
 Pr omptly addressing misunderstandings that may arise 
from your behaviour
● Listening with an open mind to understand differ ent 
points of view
● Ensuring that your work / study is not overly influenced 
by a small number of contributors / perspectives
● When leading any activities being mindful, and taking 
proactive steps to ensure, that all participants have an 
opportunity to achieve their potential.
14
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 In defining and delivering our strategy, both medium and long term,  
the University identifies the elements of its character as being:
splotch
Ambition and Aspiration 
Providing an environment where we identify, and 
help develop the ambitions and aspirations of 
our staff, students and partners, enabling them 
to inform and influence our offering, fostering a culture where our mutual success will build an outstanding reputation. 
CHILD 
Agility 
Ensuring that our staff, students and partners are equipped to respond to current and emerging challenges in society in a way that leads to personal fulfilment, institutional success 
and public good. 
users-cog
Endeavour 
Ensuring that through collective endeavour in 
the creation and delivery of our learning and 
research activity and support structures, we 
become a community of confidence, resilience, 
entrepreneurship and scholarship enabling potential to be realised and ambition fulfilled. street-view 
Impact 
Ensuring that we positively impact upon society; locally, regionally, nationally and globally in order 
to have a measurable reach, a positive and 
transformative influence on society and enable 
lives of consequence. 
heart 
Valuing people 
Enhancing our commitment to engaging, 
developing and retaining necessary talent to achieve our strategic goals through our 
continued commitment to inclusivity, equality 
and diversity and the celebration of success. Oxford Brookes University Educational  
Character statement 
15
16
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 17
Oxford Brookes is a student-centred University. Our overarching aim is 
to deliver an outstanding educational experience which enables each 
of our graduates to be skilled, confident and successful. This will be 
achieved within a collaborative and inclusive community of scholars and practitioners, working together to make an impact on society.
We do this by:
1.  Providing a globally relevant and purposeful educational experience that is inspiring and challenging, where research-inspired learning 
and teaching is of the highest quality. We 
will work with our students to bring about 
enhancements to curricula, teaching and learning, to ensure our provision is current, accessible and adaptive to their evolving career goals;
2.
  Using individual lear ner experience 
information (collated into personalised
 dashboar ds), to offer each student an 
individualised learning plan, alongside 
support in the form of personal/professional 
development coaching, which will ensure 
that a Brookes’ education meets needs and aspirations over time. This provision will be
 developed within the context of inclusive 
learning communities which are rooted with
 the r elevant sectors that provide 
opportunities for our students;3.  Encouraging students to reflect upon their knowledge, skills and experiences and
 to continue to lear n and flourish in a complex 
world, enabling them to become
 successful, forwar d-thinking and enterprising 
graduates who contribute positively to
 society and who act as positive r ole-models 
for future students;
4.  Empowering students with the ability to 
recognise and seize opportunities through
 critical analysis and judgement supported by 
a clear ability to implement their own
 ideas within both th eir personal and 
professional lives. By partnering with our
 students and with society , we will inspire our 
graduates to be enterprising in all that
 they do, ensuring an education which is 
genuinely transformative and which enables
 us to addr ess global challenges together.Education and Enterprise Pillar 2035 vision statement
18
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 19
Our portfolio of research excellence builds on our distinctive disciplinary 
base, fosters interdisciplinary and collaborative working, and delivers 
transformational social, cultural and economic benefit for our communities 
both locally and globally. We will strengthen our inclusive and connected research community, increase our collaborations with regional and global 
partners and enhance our capacity to drive forward sustainable innovation, 
knowledge exchange and enterprise. We will advance opportunities to 
lead and contribute to local, national and international initiatives using our 
expertise and facilities.
We do this by:
1. Continuing to increase the quality and global 
impact of our research is crucial to our
 gr owth as an entrepreneurial university. 
We will invest in growing our academic community, in creating innovative spaces and facilities, and providing a collegiate, inclusive environment in which researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs at all career stages can flourish and excel. By 2035, at least one-fifth of university income will relate to research, innovation and knowledge exchange.
2. 
 Characterising our research and knowledge exchange portfolio with globally recognised research centres and collaborative, interdisciplinary networks, which address societal needs, support sustainable economic development and promote health and wellbeing. Our networks and centres will integrate world-leading research with innovation, knowledge exchange and enterprise to deliver practical solutions through real-world testbeds.
3. 
 Creating an inclusive and vibrant community of researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs  that fosters collaborative ways of working 
 and equips staff and students, at all car eer 
stages, with the skills and confidence to contribute across academic, commercial, public and voluntary sectors. We will strengthen our doctoral training centres and graduate college, and double the number of early career researchers.
4.
  Supporting research and innovation through the creation of a Research, Innovation and Enterprise Office. This will also facilitate the impact and reach of our research through increased engagement and co-creation activities within our local and regional communities, national initiatives and global partners.
5.
  Fostering research-inspired and inquiry-led teaching by aligning our research and education strategies, thus providing opportunities for our students to get involved in research, knowledge exchange and a wide range of enterprise projects.Research and Innovation Pillar2035 vision statement

20

OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 21
Our ambition is to create a vibrant, inclusive and supportive community 
distinguished by strong collaboration and communication between 
academic and professional practitioners, between academics from different 
disciplines and between academics and students. This in turn will foster a place where students, educators, researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs 
can flourish and excel. We are committed to continuously developing and 
supporting diversity, inclusivity and openness to foster a trust-based culture.
We do this by: 
1.  Ensuring our people ar e skilled and confident 
and have the resilience and agility to take
 changing contexts in their stride.
2. Striving to constantly improve and develop 
ourselves and how we work through 
reflection, honest constructive appraisal and 
seeking and giving helpful feedback. 
3.  Developing relationships that are forward thinking and creative within a context of 
supportive challenge and enquiry and 
focused on collective progress, where 
personal fulfilment and institutional success are mutually beneficial outcomes.  4.
  Focusing on outcomes and making a positive difference.  
5.
 Ensuring our endeavours and enterprise are being driven by ambition and supported by generosity of spirit, drawing on a wealth of knowledge and skill from across communities.  
6.
 Valuing difference and never losing sight of being human and the need for belonging, recognition and wellbeing for each individual.  People and Culture Pillar2035 vision statement

22

OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 23
In 2035, our place within the vibrant and globally-recognised innovation 
ecosystem that is Oxford, will be a source of distinction, attracting an 
inclusive and diverse community of students and staff from across the UK 
and the world. Our location and the opportunities it offers will underpin our position as one of the country’s leading modern, forward-thinking and 
supportive universities.
We do this by: 
1.  Attracting students to Oxfor d Brookes 
because they know that they will graduate 
ready to step into challenging and rewarding careers supported by the placements, internships and work experience they have been able to gain with our local, regional and global partners.  
2.
  Ensuring our global pr esence is greater 
than ever before, through our international partnerships, as we extend our teaching, research, knowledge exchange and impact through sustainable and equitable partnerships with colleges, global education partners, businesses and third-sector organisations.  
3. 
 Further developing our partnerships 
with business, the NHS and social care sector, the third sector, colleges and other universities reaching from Oxford city into the wider economic geography of our regions. Our teaching, research and knowledge exchange focus on meeting the social, cultural and economic challenges that we collectively face; informing policymakers, contributing to the cultural and social development of society, and helping organisations to thrive, grow and acquire the skills and talent in the workforce that they need.4.
  Ensuring our impact on the wider local 
community, including the businesses and institutions we work with, is valued and well understood. Oxford Brookes is known as an integral part of the local community and as a stakeholder in the future success of Oxford and the region, making a positive contribution to civic society and the richness of life in the community as a whole - it is a University that builds capacity, makes ideas happen and gives back.
5. 
 Reflecting our forwar d-thinking character 
in our campuses. We invest in our place, ensuring that our buildings are sustainable and stimulating for all. For those not on campus, the investments we make to our IT infrastructure mean that more students than ever before - both in the UK and internationally - can learn virtually with Oxford Brookes. 
6.
  Developing the connections and partnerships  
within and across our community of students and staff so that they are recognised as vital to our success as an entrepreneurial, forward-thinking university. This provides a vibrant, inclusive and supportive community, which in turn fosters a place where students, educators, researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs can flourish and excel.  Partnerships and Place Pillar2035 vision statement
24
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Appendices 
Operational Plans for Immediate 
Priorities 2020-2022Appendices 
File-alt
25
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 
26
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Note: Five immediate strategic priorities have been selected, based on the content of  
the high-level operation plan for this pillar. The remaining actions will be for more 
medium/longer term implementation as part of a more detailed operational document.Appendix 1 - Education and Enterprise pillar Operational Plan Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
Ref. No. Priority Details Rationale
EEA1AC4 We will develop a range of flexible delivery approaches 
(including online) to provide an excellent learning experience for all our students, which will enable them 
to excel and achieve their ambitions in a fast changing 
external environment.The COVID situation has created a pressing need for us to look at how we deliver learning experiences (including assessment) and how students engage 
with us. We need a good quality offer that can flex to 
circumstances.
EEA2AC1 We will ensure the personalisation of the student learning experience.Learning analytics has an even greater potential to be a USP for us post-COVID as it’s a way to offer 
personalisation whilst remote. We are advanced with 
our work on this and want to progress it.
EEA3AC2 We will ensure opportunities for students to make sense of and articulate the value of their learning experiences for their future success.Students need space to reflect on what they gain from their time at University, and support (through coaching and mentoring) to understand how they have 
developed personally and professionally. This is so they 
can articulate this to employers.
EEA4AC1 We will work together with students and other stakeholders to establish an institutional framework which ensures enterprise and employability are fully 
embedded into the student experience.This is something we have needed for a long time. 
We have started work in this area that we want to progress. We need to ensure that there is sufficient 
and appropriate time in the curriculum for students to 
engage with this.
EEA2AC5 &EEA1AC6We will introduce a holistic staff development and recognition framework to embed the use of learning 
analytics in the support we give to students, and 
embed inclusive learning and teaching throughout  the institution.We recognise that our priorities will not be achieved without buy-in and support from colleagues. In 
addition, we need to ensure colleagues are equipped 
to deal with the changes proposed.
Key Performance Targets: TEF Gold; NSS and PTES upper quartile across all programmes; Upper quartile in the Graduate Outcome Survey; Meeting the targets associated with the degree outcome differential articulated in the Access and Participation Plan; Continuation rates no lower than 90% across all our programmes; Upper quartile performance for timely student completions; 
and 95% of our students recommending our programmes to new applicants.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 27
Appendix 2 - Research and Innovation pillar Operational 
Plan Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
Ref. No. Priority Details Rationale Metric
RI1 We will ensure research, innovation & 
knowledge exchange (RI and KE) are appropriately prioritised as part of our post 
Covid-19 recovery by driving strategic 
initiatives/investment through our centres/institutes or UoAs, whilst working towards 
greater financial and environmental 
sustainability of RIKE activities.R&I are key to the university’s continued success. We will build on our work to date to build critical mass in areas of strength 
through research centres, institutes or UoAs, 
which are then connected through cross-disciplinary networks. Working towards 
greater financial sustainability will be even 
more important post Covid-19.HEBCI return; annual RBDO Research 
income data; 
TRAC data
RI2 We will ensure that research excellence is underpinned by a broader community of developing researchers, KE, enterprise and 
innovation – promoting student and regional 
engagement.We must continue the work to create communities of researchers in which RI and KE are valued for the distinctive contributions 
that each make to overall university success, 
and to post Covid-19 recovery of our communities in the coming months and years.REF outcome; KEF outcome
RI3 We will appoint, nurture and retain excellent researchers, or those with proven potential, 
and provide a supportive and inclusive 
environment to promote good practice, integrity, researcher development and career 
progression.To deliver success in RI and KE requires 
investment in appointing, nurturing and 
retaining talented researchers (research 
students to the professoriate), those that support RI and KE, and in providing an 
environment in which they can flourish.Athena SWAN; 
HR Excellence 
Award; PRES 
upper Q
RI4 We will create a supportive and inclusive environment that nurtures, promotes 
and values innovation, enterprise and 
KE activities, and enhances connectivity to partners particularly those in our local 
communities as we recover from Covid-19.The university has much to gain from being 
clear and ambitious about its role in our local 
and regional communities and in helping to 
shape the social and economic recovery from Covid-19 through enhanced engagement 
with partners through enterprise and KEKEF
RI5 We will promote the societal benefits of our 
collective RI and KE activities, enhance public engagement and enable students to benefit 
from research inspired teaching.We recognise that our priorities will not be 
achieved without buy-in and support from colleagues. In addition, we need to ensure 
colleagues are equipped to deal with the 
changes proposed.REF Impact; KEF PE
28
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Note: These strategic priorities have been selected for attention in the post Covid-19 period.  
The remaining plans will be set out in a People and Culture Strategy which will span a 5 year  
period (2020 to 2025) and include actions for medium/longer term implementation.  Appendix 3 - People and Culture Pillar Immediate  Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
Ref. No. Priority Details Rationale
P&C 1 Workforce planning to ensure we have the right 
number of people in the right places to support core business. This work will include:
• In line with business and financial needs, ensuring we have the right numbers of people in the right 
place
• Attracting, recruiting and retaining staff where 
demand exists for certain skills.Workforce needs will change as the University emerges from the Covid-19 crisis and the size and shape of the workforce may need to change as we adapt to 
demand and our financial circumstances.
Our ability to attract and keep the skilled people we 
need to deliver for the future will be crucial.
P&C 2 Workforce development to include : 
• Support provided through OCSLD for more flexible 
and blended learning and to embed inclusive 
learning and teaching throughout the institution
• Improving flexibility and resilience through skills 
development and engendering mindset shifts 
• Embed and build on EXPLORE, the new approach to career long learning and development for 
academic staff
• Improve peer to peer development including 
through coaching, mentoring and sharing learning.The Covid-19 crisis has increased the need to invest in the people upon whom we rely to deliver a quality learning experience to our students and optimising the 
contribution of those who provide supporting services 
as well as efficiency of all professional services provision.
We have a pressing need to look at how we deliver (an 
inclusive) learning experiences (including assessment) 
and how students engage with us. OCSLD will support the work led by Anne-Marie Kilday. 
We also recognise that colleagues need help to deal 
with the post crisis changes.
P&C 3 We will build management and leadership capability to motivate and inspire staff and optimise operational delivery over the coming 12 months as we recover 
from the crisis.We recognise the past under investment in developing 
our managers and leaders and the imperative of putting in place a quality development offer to support 
those in leadership and management roles. This has 
been made even more important by the recent crisis and the possibility of continuing challenges for the next 
few years.
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 29
If we are successful we will see:
• That we have attracted and kept good people 
• Staff can work well in the new environment and under new 
conditions
• They feel equipped to deliver in new ways and can continue to adapt as circumstances change further
• We have a more diverse workforce with a greater understanding of inclusion and diversity and the ability to 
work in inclusive ways
• Our people are well led and managed, feeling confident 
despite the challenges and delivering a good experience for 
students and colleaguesWe will measure success by:
• Staff surveys / pulse surveys
• Sickness absence rates and reasons for absence related to 
mental wellbeing issues decrease
• Meeting our access and participation targets
• Numbers of participants and feedback gained on EXPLORE (the new Academic development programme)
• Student feedback on the blended learning experienceRef. No. Priority Details Rationale
P&C 4 Staff wellbeing – we anticipate additional support will be needed to enable staff to work effectively while transitioning to new ways of working and avoiding 
absences due to change, loss and disruption caused 
by the crisis.The crisis has thrown up many new challenges and people are needing to cope with many concurrent pressures at home and in work. The longer the crisis 
continues the greater the need for support, which will 
need to continue into the medium and longer term. 
Providing both practical and emotional support will  
strengthen the Brookes community, build engagement 
and enable people to keep contributing well despite 
the ongoing difficulties.
P&C 5 We will continue our efforts to build and sustain a diverse and inclusive workforce which will both attract and support a more diverse student body.We will need to be creative and adaptable in our responses to the ongoing crisis. One known enabler of this is a diverse workforce where everyone can 
contribute fully.
An increased appreciation of difference and how to act 
in an inclusive way to ensure both staff and students can achieve their full potential will be an important part 
of recovery.
30
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Appendix 4 - Partnerships and Place Operational Plan 
Immediate Strategic Priorities 2020-2022
Ref. No. Priority Details Rationale Metric
PP1 We will develop and support collaborations 
with a broad range of partners using our research and expertise to help understand, 
co-create and deliver innovative solutions to 
local as well as global challenges; and in doing so will build inclusive communities of scholars, 
researchers, entrepreneurs and learners.Solutions to local and global challenges (and 
hence research impact) require collaborative approaches with a wide variety of partners; 
never more so than as we recover from the 
current situation. Achieving this through an inclusive community approach links well with 
our GPs and People & Culture Pillar.Number of 
outputs & projects with 
partners
PP2 We will contribute to the economic prosperity, 
health and wellbeing, and the social and 
cultural vitality of our local communities to 
support recovery from Covid-19; through engagement with stakeholders and through 
staff/student RIKE and entrepreneurial 
activities.Making a contribution to our local communities is a priority as we all recover from 
Covid-19 – and recognising this is achieved 
through staff and students.KEF; HEBCI data
PP3 We will continue to develop high quality, sustainable and strategic educational partnerships to deliver our programmes both 
in the UK and internationally providing greater 
emphasis on flexible, virtual and distance learning.Post-Covid-19 recovery will see us working more closely with partners to deliver our programmes flexibly with greater emphasis 
on high quality distance and virtual learning.Number of 
students studying via 
partners
PP4 We will partner with employers, businesses, 
entrepreneurs and public sector organisations to deliver training, retraining 
and new skill development at all levels as part 
of post-Covid-19 recovery planning.As all organisations seek to recover from the Covid-19 health emergency, there will be a need for re-training and new 
skill development at all levels; including 
entrepreneurial skills.KEF; HEBCI data
PP5 We will develop connections and partnerships within and across our community of students and staff in 
recognition that a vibrant, inclusive and 
supportive environment enables students, educators, researchers, innovators and 
entrepreneurs to flourish and excel.This priority recognises the importance 
of collaboration and partnerships across our university and seeks to build on the 
community spirit and sense of working 
together that has helped us move through the Covid-19 emergency – it will see us 
through recovery too.Staff Survey
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Appendices 
(5-year strategic plans)Appendices 
File-alt31
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 
32
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Appendix 5 - Education and Enterprise 5-year strategic plan
Education and Enterprise
Overarching strategic statement Oxford Brookes is a student-centred University. Our overarching aim is to deliver an 
outstanding educational experience which enables each of our graduates to be capable, confident and successful in whatever career path they choose. This will be achieved within a 
collaborative and inclusive community of scholars and practitioners, working together to make 
an impact on society. 
Ambition 1 Providing a globally relevant and purposeful educational experience that is inspiring and challenging, where research-inspired learning and teaching is of the highest quality. We will work with our students and other stakeholders to bring about enhancements to curricula, 
teaching and learning, to ensure our provision is current, accessible and adaptive to their 
evolving career goals.
Actions: Years 1-5
• W e will champion a philosophy of teaching as engagement and challenge
• W e will refresh our curricula with employers and other stakeholders to ensure its currency 
and to empower our students’ interventions in global challenges
• W e will establish an institutional student advisory board to underpin a partnership model of 
inclusive curriculum development
• W e will provide more flexible and blended learning opportunities (including by distance) to 
enable students to study at their own pace 
• W e will provide a learning environment rich in immersive and experiential opportunities
• W e will introduce a holistic staff development and recognition framework to embed inclusive 
learning and teaching
Ambition 2 Using individual learner experience information, to offer each student an individualised learning plan, alongside support in the form of personal and professional mentoring and guidance, 
which will ensure that a Brookes education meets their needs and aspirations over time. This 
provision will be developed within the context of inclusive learning communities embedded within our disciplines and sector-based networks.  
Actions: Years 1-5
• W e will ensure the personalisation of the student learning experience
• W e will maximise our students’ potential through innovative and inclusive support models 
including mentoring schemes and personal and professional guidance 
• W e will commit to the recruitment of a dedicated team to fully implement and further 
develop Learning Analytics at Brookes to offer students individualised supportive learning plans
• W e will use Learning Analytics to analyse and optimise curriculum models and resources to 
meet the needs of all students
• W e will introduce a holistic staff development framework to embed the use of Learning 
Analytics in the support we give to students
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 33
Education and Enterprise
Ambition 3 Encouraging students to reflect upon their knowledge, skills and experiences and to continue 
to learn and flourish in a complex world, enabling them to become successful, forward-
thinking and enterprising graduates who contribute positively to society and who act as role-
models for future students.
Actions: Years 1-5 • W e will adopt a rolling programme of ‘future-think’ projects to ensure that all students 
continue to flourish within an uncertain external environment
• W e will ensure opportunities for students to make sense of and articulate the value of their 
learning experiences for their future success
• W e will provide contexts for students to put the skills and knowledge they have gained into 
practice
• W e will support students to become confident, reflective and engaged members of the 
University community 
• W e will equip students to make a positive contribution to society and its future sustainability
Ambition 4 Empowering students with the ability to recognise and seize opportunities through critical analysis and judgement supported by a clear ability to implement their own ideas within both 
their personal and professional lives. By partnering with our students and with society, we will 
inspire our graduates to be enterprising in all that they do, ensuring an education which is genuinely transformative and which enables us to address global challenges together. 
Actions: Years 1-5
• W e will work together with students and other stakeholders to establish an institutional 
framework which ensures that enterprise and employability are fully embedded into the student experience 
• W e will ensure a shared understanding of employability skills and aptitudes between staff 
and students at the programme level
• W e will ensure that enterprising, work-based experiences are available and accessible for 
all students
• W e will establish an externally accredited co-curricular scheme which is available to all 
students
Key Performance Targets Our target is to provide a first-class student experience for all our students.  This will be measured by:
1. TEF Gold  
2. NSS and PTES upper quartile acr oss all programmes
3. Upper quartile in the Graduate Outcome Survey
4. Meeting the targets associated with the degr ee outcome differential articulated in the 
Access and Participation Plan
5. Continuation rates no lower than 90% acr oss all our programmes 
6. Upper quartile performance for timely student completions
7. 95% of our students r ecommending our programmes to new applicants
Risk  The Risk Register relates to not achieving the target by these measures
34
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 1 W e will double the overall contribution of Research, 
Knowledge Exchange & Innovation activities by 2035
 W e will ensure research, innovation and knowledge 
exchange (RIKE) are appropriately prioritised and we will 
increasingly drive strategic initiatives and investment through 
Research Centres/Institutes or Units of Assessment (UoAs)
in order to achieve this. We will ensure greater financial and environmental sustainability of our RIKE activities.
 KPI: All RIKE income streams (proportion that is full 
Economic Cost (fEC); proportion of funded workload planning 
(WLP)
 Target 2025: 40% increase compared to current activity
2 W e will increase capability and capacity for research, 
and continue to build an ambitious but supportive and 
inclusive environment in which researchers can excel
 W e will (continue to) invest in creating a vibrant, inclusive and 
ambitious environment in which we strive for internationally excellent and world-leading research. Within a pyramidal 
structure, based on Research Centres/Institutes or 
UoAs, research excellence and global collaborations will be underpinned by a broader community of developing 
researchers, knowledge exchange, enterprise and innovation 
– promoting student and regional engagement.  
 KPI: number of research (and KE)-active staff across all career stages; number of research students; continuous 
improvement in external assessments of research and 
researcher development
 Target 2025: Increase research power by 30% [in REF 2021]; increase research student numbers by 25%; 
improvement in 3/4* Research Environment [in REF 2021]; 
renewal of externally assessed awards that recognise researcher development
	 Specifically, 	we	will:
 (i) Appoint, nurtur e and reward/retain excellent researchers 
or those with proven potential for research excellence, innovation or knowledge exchange
 (ii) Invest in prioritised, dedicate d and flexible RIKE WLP time 
through strategic faculty/corporate Research Forum (CRF) allocations linked to Personal Research Plans and Research 
Centre/Institute/UoA plans & performance. (iii) Develop a high-quality , inclusive researcher development 
framework to promote good practice and integrity in all our 
RIKE activities, support and develop our researchers and 
create clear pathways and trajectories for progression at all 
career stages, starting with Post Doctoral Research Assistant (PDRAs), Research Fellow (RF) and Early Career Researchers 
(ECRs), and across research, innovation and knowledge 
exchange. We will also develop and support the career aspirations of technical and professional RIKE colleagues. 
 (iv) Invest in gr owing our research student base through 
widening access to postgraduate research opportunities and securing co-funding from non-academic partners; we will 
provide research students with a high-quality experience and 
career development opportunities.
 (v) Pr ovide appropriate and agile systems, processes and 
facilities (space, equipment, IT) that enable and promote high quality research; and translation of research into benefits for 
society.
 (vi) Put in place a biennial quality r eview system to assess 
progress against RIKE objectives and targets and inform future investment plans; each Research Institute/ Centre/UoA will be reviewed on a rolling basis and in line with the 
principles of DORA (San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment); we will include researcher satisfaction with 
professional support processes.
3 W e will support, promote and invest in Innovation, 
Knowledge Exchange & Impact
 W e will (continue our work to) create a supportive and 
inclusive environment that nurtures, promotes and values 
innovation, enterprise and knowledge exchange across 
all disciplines. We will enable collaborative working, 
and enhance connectivity with partners, to generate understanding of, and innovative solutions to, local, national 
or global societal challenges; and in doing so we will increase 
the impact of our collective RIKE activities.
 KPI: Developing and submitted Impact Case Studies;  The Higher Education Business & Community Interaction 
(HE-BCI) return; proportion of projects and outputs with a 
non-academic partner; number of spin-outs and start-ups
 Target 2025: Improvement in the 3/4* rating of impact case studies [in REF 2021] and increase the number of developing 
impact case studies; increase the proportion of projects/
outputs with non-academic partners by 40%; increase the number of spin-outs and start-ups by 50%Appendix 6 - Research and Innovation 5-year strategic plan
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 35
	 Specifically, 	we	will:
 (i) Str engthen inter-disciplinary research, collaborations 
and enterprising activities across our own community of 
researchers, from undergraduates to the Professoriate, and 
with national/international HEI partners  
 (ii) Prioritise, actively support and foster effective 
collaborations with non-academic partners/end users of RIKE (business, industry, SMEs, public sector, policy, NHS, third 
sector and local communities) both regionally and globally
 (iii) Incr ease the impact of our research in terms of its 
contribution to social, cultural and economic transformation 
through greater engagement with external partners in the co-
design and application of RIKE e.g. through consortia, KTPs, 
social enterprise
 (iv) Pr ovide the infrastructure (space, facilities, networks and 
support) to facilitate collaborative working, stimulate and catalyse enterprise and innovation to translate ideas into 
practice for the benefit of partners and society. We will grow 
existing incubators and develop interdisciplinary Innovation & Enterprise Hubs.
4  W e will promote the societal benefits of our collective 
research, innovation and knowledge exchange endeavours, improve our public engagement activities, 
enable students to benefit from research-inspired 
teaching and work to ensure our outputs and data are openly accessible
 KPI: Graduate outcomes; Open Access, Open Data; Impact Case Studies
 Targets: 90% of assessed outputs are open access; 50% of researchers/research groups make data openly accessible; 
increase in the number of developing impact case studies
	 Specifically, 	we	will:
 (i) Impr ove the level of public engagement and outreach 
undertaken to maximise the awareness and impact of our 
research activities both locally, nationally and internationally
 (ii) Endeavour to ensur e our research outputs and data are 
open access and publicised in a range of accessible formats (iii) Invest in pr omoting our RIKE activities through the 
website, other digital means including social media, and by hosting events, conferences, workshops and exhibitions to 
showcase our RIKE and its impact for society, and to gain 
greater engagement with regional stakeholders.
 (iv) Ensur e that students benefit from our RIKE activities 
through research-inspired teaching, increased opportunities for projects, dissertations and summer placements within our 
RIKE communities. Through increased links with local and 
regional non-academic partners, students will also benefit from greater opportunities for placements and internships to 
enhance employability skills.
36
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 Appendix 7 - People and Culture 5 year strategic plan 
People & Culture
Overarching strategic statement We believe that our strength lies in the success of people. Our personal and collective skills, 
knowledge and energy will add up to success for individuals, teams and for the whole University. Equally important are the relationships we build, the environments we create and 
how we work together to make a positive difference.
Our ambition is to create a vibrant, inclusive, diverse and supportive community distinguished 
by strong collaboration and communication which in turn will foster a place where people can 
flourish and excel.
We are committed to continuously developing and supporting diversity, inclusivity and 
openness to cultivate a trust-based culture in which the following ambitions can be achieved.
Ambition 1 Relationships are forward-thinking, positive, inclusive and creative within a context of supportive challenge and enquiry and focused on collective progress, where personal fulfilment and institutional success are mutually beneficial outcomes.
• We will develop our understanding of effective team working,  successful relationship building and what makes collaboration work well, to build sustainable partnerships inside 
and outside the University
• We will value success in the round in terms of individual effort, team work, living our guiding 
principles and demonstrating a wider contribution to delivering goals and ambitions and to 
achieving sustainability
• We will put in place tools to support knowledge sharing and make it easier to find and 
access skills within our community
• We will develop ways to check the health of relationships and gain feedback to continuously improve how we work together
Ambition 2 We focus on outcomes and making a positive difference.
• We will  ensure we have clarity of purpose and set clear outcomes that enable  people to fully contribute to achieving goals whether at local, institutional or wider partnership level
• Financial, environmental and social sustainability will be a focus in all we do, and we will pay attention to these factors in how we work
• We will value interdisciplinarity and enterprise and will build these into approaches to work
• We will encourage volunteering for both staff and students
Ambition 3 Our people are skilled and confident and have the resilience and agility to take changing 
contexts in their stride.
• We will invest in growing the skills of our workforce, our partnerships and within our student 
body
• We will build resilience  and  improve flexibility in terms of building personal and interpersonal  skills, positive mindsets and will invest in the infrastructure to support working 
flexibly
• We will celebrate success and highlight achievements to build confidence and widen 
understanding of delivering successful outcomes
• We will improve our knowledge of what is happening in leading edge organisations across the globe to build momentum for positive change at Oxford Brookes
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 37
People & Culture
Ambition 4 We strive to constantly improve and develop ourselves and how we work through reflection, 
honest constructive appraisal and seeking and giving helpful feedback.
• We will promote and share best practice and encourage continuous learning and development, starting with the importance of induction and building a life-long passion for 
learning
• We will value constructive feedback to, from and between colleagues, students and 
partners and build in feedback, regular reviews and reflective practice into how we work 
and study
• We will build on existing coaching and mentoring practice and include peer to peer and 
reciprocal mentoring (staff, students and partners) and train the trainer initiatives to share 
learning more widely
• We will invest in ongoing personal and professional development to ensure our staff are up 
to date and at the leading edge in their field
• We will develop our managers and leaders to be inspiring and motivational leaders with a focus on development and continuous improvement and growing talented individuals and 
teams
Ambition 5 We truly value difference and we never lose sight of being human and the need for belonging, recognition and wellbeing for each individual.
We will build a positive work and study environment based on principles of diversity and 
inclusion:
• Leaders and managers will be skilled and confident in appreciating diversity and building inclusive environments and supporting the wellbeing of staff and students
• We will build a strong sense of belonging as a member of our Oxford Brookes community
• We will create an environment where everyone is able to be themselves and bring the best version of themselves to work and study
Key Performance Targets Ways we could measure our progress include:           
• Achieving People and Planet or similar sustainability framework measure
• Staff Survey
• Organisational Cultural Inventory or similar (https://www.humansynergistics.com/en-gb/change-solutions/organisations/assessments/organisational-culture-inventory)
• Organisational Effectiveness Inventory or similar
• https://www.humansynergistics.com/en-gb/change-solutions/organisations/assessments/organisational-effectiveness-inventory
• Meeting the various diversity targets in the University EDI action plan and the Access and Participation Plan
38
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 1 W e will impact the world through our researchers, 
educators, students and alumni in connected, vibrant 
and sustainable partnerships
 W e will develop and support collaborations with partners to 
help understand and provide innovative solutions to global challenges. We will build inclusive communities of scholars, 
researchers, entrepreneurs and learners where difference 
is valued and experiences are shared. We will prepare our students and encourage our alumni to be a force for good, 
knowing their individual effort is valuable and that Oxford 
Brookes works as a collective to have an impact. We will ensure our partnerships promote an open exchange of ideas 
allowing Oxford Brookes to embrace the new and be open to 
a variety of spheres of influence.
 KPI: number of alumni chapters; proportion of projects and outputs with non-academic partners; external recognition of 
influence (rankings)
 Target 2025: Increase in number of students engaged in 
alumni chapters by 25%; increase in proportion of projects/outputs with non-academic partners by 40%; improve 
externally assessed rankings
2 W e will broaden access to an Oxford Brookes 
education providing opportunities wherever you are in the world
 Wher ever possible, we will offer flexibility to meet the needs 
of students, employers and the communities we serve. We will invest to provide greater opportunities for students to 
study by distance learning. We will continue to develop high- 
quality strategic partnerships to deliver our programmes both in the UK and internationally. We will partner with 
organisations to deliver flexible learning and opportunities for 
lifelong skills development and training
 KPI: Diversity of the student population; number of students studying by DL and through partnerships; specific income 
and contribution from partnerships;number of students 
engaged in employer-led study
 Target 2025: Meet the OFS A&P targets; increase the number of students studying by DL to 30%; increase the 
number of students studying through partnerships by 30%; 
increase the income and contribution from partnerships by 25%; increase number of employer-led students by 25%3 W e will make a distinctive contribution to the world-
leading research and innovation landscape, through enhancing the economic, social and cultural vitality of 
our local and regional communities
 W e will engage with a broad range of partners to co-
create and deliver innovative solutions to local community 
and regional challenges. We will contribute to the health, 
wellbeing, social and cultural vitality of our local communities 
through a range of staff, student, research and public engagement activities. We will contribute to sustainable, 
economic development through collaborative research, 
knowledge exchange, engagement with policy makers & stakeholders, and through student placements, internships 
and entrepreneurial activity.
 KPI: HE-BCI data with local/regional partners; proportion of 
projects and outputs with local/regional partners; number of 
student placements, internships and employment
 Target 2025: Increase the proportion of The Higher 
Education Business & Community Interaction generated 
with local/regional partners; increase the number of projects/
outputs with local/regional non-academic partners by 40%; student targets
4 W e will ensure that you can be “Oxford Brookes” 
wherever you are
 W e will invest in and create a high-quality virtual and physical 
environment that supports learning, communication and a sense of belonging across all our communities. We will 
consistently deliver a high-quality experience for all Oxford 
Brookes staff and students - wherever they are and however they study or work with us
 KPI: NSS; Staff Survey; Alumni chapters
 Target 2025: 90% satisfaction in NSS; 90% satisfaction in Staff Survey; increase number of students engaged in alumni 
chaptersAppendix 8 - Partnerships and Place 5-year strategic plan 
OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY STRATEGY 2035 39

www.brookes.ac.uk/strategy2035
