University of Oxford 
Strategic Plan  
2018–23
1
Note: The Strategic Plan period has been extended by Council to 2024 because of  the impact of the COVID-19  
pandemic.  This extension applies to all target dates in the Plan.  
Scope
The University Strategic Plan sets out a 
framework of priorities for the University, its divisions and departments. The 
Conference of Colleges has been consulted 
during the drafting of the plan and colleges will be vital partners in its implementation. The strategic plan will be underpinned by a more detailed implementation plan which 
will be approved by the University Council 
and overseen by a programme board chaired by the Vice-Chancellor.
Mission
The advancement of learning by teaching and research and its dissemination by every means.
Vision
We will work as one Oxford bringing together our staff, students and alumni, our colleges, faculties, departments and 
divisions to provide world-class research 
and education. We will do this in ways which benefit society on a local, regional, national and global scale. We will build on the University’s long-standing traditions of 
independent scholarship and academic 
freedom while fostering a culture in which innovation and collaboration play an important role.
We are committed to equality of 
opportunity, to engendering inclusivity, and to supporting staff and student wellbeing, ensuring that the very best students and staff can flourish in our 
community. We believe that a diverse staff 
and student body strengthens our research and enhances our students’ learning.
The University’s distinctive democratic 
structure, born of its history, will continue 
to offer a source of strength. Likewise Oxford’s collegiate structure provides the University with key aspects of its academic strength and its highly attractive student 
experience. Oxford will continue to foster 
the interdisciplinary nature of the colleges, their teaching strength, and their defining and enduring sense of community.Themes and 
commitments
Education
Through a commitment to the  
personal education of each student,  
we will provide a quality of education 
and experience which equips students 
with the values, skills and intellectual discipline that will enable them to make a positive contribution to society.
COMMITMENT 1
To attract and admit students  
from all backgrounds with 
outstanding academic potential  
and the ability to benefit from  
an Oxford education
To maintain and enhance its  
intellectual strength, the University 
must recruit and support students of 
outstanding potential at all levels, 
whatever their background.To achieve this, we will strengthen and expand outreach activities, based on rigorous evaluation of their effectiveness.  
We will work closely with colleges, academic departments and faculties  
to ensure effective coordination of outreach activity. We will enhance  
our undergraduate and graduate admissions processes to ensure  
equality of opportunity for all  
applicants, and to improve efficiency and quality of service.
We will review the collegiate  
University’s financial support packages 
to ensure that they are targeted in the most effective way. We will increase  
the funding available to support the most able postgraduate taught and 
research students, and increase the 
proportion of fully funded graduate studentships.COMMITMENT 2
To offer an excellent academic 
experience for all our students  
and ensure that Oxford fully equips 
graduates to excel in whatever  
they choose to do
We will maintain the tutorial system at the heart of Oxford’s distinctive approach to undergraduate teaching, and will 
ensure that ongoing support from a 
senior academic also continues to underpin our approach to postgraduate study. We will ensure that teaching and assessment at Oxford provide an equal 
opportunity for all students to achieve 
and demonstrate their full academic potential. We will work to reduce continuing gaps in attainment and 
encourage greater diversity in 
assessment.
Supporting student wellbeing is at the 
heart of our approach to providing the greatest opportunity for all our students 
to excel. We will work to strengthen the 
partnership between colleges, academic departments and faculties, and central services to provide the welfare support 
that our students need to flourish.
We will provide opportunities, through 
and outside the curriculum, for our students to develop the personal and transferable skills to succeed in a global 
workplace. We will expand the number of 
funded internships and work-placement opportunities in the UK and overseas.  
We will also provide opportunities for 
skills enhancement and career preparation 
for all our research students.
COMMITMENT 3
To retain and refresh the collegiate 
University’s rich academic 
environment
We will retain the best that Oxford has  
to offer in its teaching, including close 
personal supervision and support,  
access to world leading academics and unparalleled learning resources including our libraries and collections. We will also University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018–23
2
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018–23
ensure that we respond to today’s 
opportunities and tomorrow’s challenges. 
We are committed to innovation and 
excellence in teaching, and will seek improved ways of demonstrating this  
in our academic staff recognition and reward processes. We will ensure that teaching is informed by best practice, an 
inclusive approach to learning and the 
opportunities for innovation offered by 
digital technology.
We will accommodate growth in  
student numbers that is strategically 
important to deliver the University’s core 
mission and academic priorities, whilst 
recognising our responsibility to preserve 
and protect nationally vulnerable subjects. 
We will continue to encourage the development of new and innovative courses and fields of study to ensure  
that our portfolio reflects advances in knowledge and meets the needs of today’s students.
EDUCATION PRIORITIES
1. Set ambitious targets by April 2019  
to substantially increase by 2023 the 
number of undergraduate places offered 
to students from groups who are 
currently under-represented at Oxford.
2. Aim to create by 2023 an additional 
300 graduate scholarships.
3. Set ambitious targets by April 2019 to 
reduce by 2023 gaps in attainment by 
gender, ethnic origin and socio-economic 
background.
4. Aim to increase by 2023 
undergraduate student intake by up to 
200 a year, with a focus on strategically important subjects areas including 
computer science, engineering, 
biomedical science and joint degrees in economics.
5. Aim to increase by 2023  
postgraduate taught student intake by up 
to 450 a year and postgraduate research 
student intake by up to 400 a year, while maintaining quality.6. Aim to offer by 2023 an additional 
2,000 funded internships for students  
at all levels.
7. By 2023, in partnership with the 
private sector, to have started the 
construction of 1,000 additional  
graduate rooms including the establishment of at least one new 
graduate college.
Research
The University of Oxford is world-  
famous for its research excellence and home to some of the most talented 
scientists and scholars from across the 
globe. Our work enhances the lives of 
millions, solving real-world problems 
through an extensive network of 
partnerships and collaborations. The 
breadth of our research and the 
connections between disciplines drive  
advancement in knowledge, understanding, innovation and  
creativity.
COMMITMENT 1
To promote and enable ambitious 
research of exceptional quality
Ambitious discovery-led research 
undertaken to the highest standards of 
rigour and integrity has the potential to 
create the greatest impact. We will 
provide our researchers with the  
freedom to investigate problems of 
significance, whether their work be curiosity-driven or challenge-led. The 
breadth and depth of Oxford’s disciplinary 
expertise enables us to lead international 
research agenda across the sciences, social sciences and humanities, and to 
convene multidisciplinary and 
international teams to address the  
most significant problems facing the world today.COMMITMENT 2
To invest in people, to support  
them and their research  
environment, thereby enabling  
the research endeavour to  
grow sustainably
We will provide a conducive  
environment for conducting research, with state-of-the-art facilities and 
infrastructure, appropriate support for staff and students, and investment in the 
training, support and wellbeing of our 
staff. We will ensure that appropriate 
measures are in place to attract the most 
able minds from across the world to 
engage in our research.
COMMITMENT 3
To change the world for  
the better
Our research will impact the world 
through new understanding that leads to 
cultural, societal, political and economic 
change. We are a global university with 
global ambition but have deep roots 
locally and nationally. We will invest 
further in the infrastructure to facilitate 
regional, national and international 
collaboration, in the skills and people to 
provide capacity for such collaboration, 
and engage with the Global South. We 
aim to maximise the cultural, social and 
economic benefit derived from our 
research regionally, nationally and across 
the world.
RESEARCH PRIORITIES
8. Enhance the opportunities and support 
for early-career researchers.
9. Invest substantially in the research 
environment, both human and physical 
(including the estate, libraries, collections, 
equipment and IT) by 2023.
10. Increase the scale and scope of our 
central research fund to grow our capacity to pump-prime, and match-fund 
major research initiatives.
3
4University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018–23
11. Engage with business, NGOs and 
others to grow the volume and value of non-public-sector-funded research on  
a sustainable basis.
12. Continue to broaden and invest in  
our innovation activities and foster the 
entrepreneurial environment for staff  
and students.
People
People are the foundation of the University’s success and the quality of  
our academic, research, professional  
and support staff is critical to our future. In order for Oxford to remain a world-leading institution for research and teaching we must continue to attract, recruit and support talented individuals 
and provide a diverse, inclusive, fair and 
open environment that allows staff to grow and flourish.
Our Human Resources policies and 
processes provide the framework for 
departments and faculties to support their people and to respond to the ever-changing external environment.
COMMITMENT 1
To attract, recruit and retain the 
highest calibre staff 
In order to ensure that the University 
remains world-leading we must  
continue to recruit and retain the very 
best staff. We will ensure that our  
reward arrangements, including pension 
provision, are robust, transparent and 
competitive. We will address the 
challenges of living in Oxford by  
providing excellent childcare provision  
and increasing the availability and affordability of staff accommodation.
We will actively promote health and 
wellbeing so that our people are able  
to give their best to their work and feel valued, and we will support working parents and all those with caring responsibilities.COMMITMENT 2
To work towards an increasingly 
diverse staffing profile
We believe that the broad range of cultural and other experiences that a diverse workforce brings will help the 
University maintain and develop its 
international outlook, strengthening its research and teaching. We will foster an inclusive culture that promotes equality of opportunity, values diversity and 
maintains a working, learning and social 
environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. We will amplify the voices of 
under-represented groups in leadership 
and decision-making and work to eliminate any barriers to their success.
COMMITMENT 3
To support staff in personal and 
professional development
Personal and professional development  
is key to enabling individuals to reach 
their full potential and maximise their 
contribution to the University. We will 
encourage staff at all levels to participate in planning their personal development and we will strengthen and promote our development programmes for all staff, 
regardless of their employment status.  
In particular, we will provide dedicated 
personal development support for early-career research staff and will 
ensure that those with management and 
leadership responsibilities are supported to be effective in those roles.
PEOPLE PRIORITIES
13. Embed a supportive, inclusive culture 
and increase the diversity of University staff at all levels through the 
implementation of our action plans such 
as Athena SWAN, the Race Equality Charter, the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index and Mindful Employer.
14. Ensure that Oxford remains an 
attractive place to work, taking into consideration the work environment, housing, childcare, visas, pensions  
and salary.
15. Create a policy and practice 
environment that is supportive of 
wellbeing, where responsibility for wellbeing is shared and owned by all.
16. Put in place creative and consistent 
measures to help our staff to balance 
competing demands on their time, both within their roles and between their working and home lives, including developing our childcare provision and 
flexible working policies, and enabling 
academic staff to vary their duties over the course of their career.
17. Develop an equitable and transparent 
means of allocating new affordable 
homes for University and college staff (see priority 28).
18. Review and improve our current 
arrangements to support the personal 
and career development of all staff.
Engagement and 
partnership
By enhancing the public engagement, 
knowledge exchange and innovation culture of the University, we aim to 
ensure that our research and education 
benefit wider publics in the Oxford  
region, across the UK and globally.  
To this end we will work in partnership with public, private, voluntary  
and commercial organisations, and  
our alumni.
COMMITMENT 1
To work with partners to create a 
world-class regional innovation 
ecosystem
Enterprise and innovation are 
fundamental to Oxford’s continuing research success and to its positive 
impact on society. They position the 
University and the region as a place 
5University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018–23
of opportunity which will attract the  
best researchers and students from 
around the world.
Working with our Local Enterprise 
Partnership, local councils, national government, Harwell and Culham science campuses, Oxford Sciences Innovation, 
and local and global business, we will 
foster an environment which nurtures social and commercial entrepreneurs.
We will invest in our capacity to  
increase collaborative research activity 
with business, industry and other  
external organisations, and provide enhanced support for spinouts and start-ups derived from our research 
through the work of Oxford University 
Innovation. We will increase co-location and co-working with businesses alongside our academic research (establishing innovation centres) and  
will actively engage in the formation  
of innovation districts.
COMMITMENT 2
To build a stronger and more 
constructive relationship with our 
local and regional community
We believe that it is vitally important that 
the University benefits local citizens. We will aim to increase the scale of innovation 
and translation in the medical and health 
sciences, including with our local NHS partners. We will continue to provide gateways for public engagement with the research and teaching of the University 
via exhibitions, public education, schools 
and outreach programmes, including through the University Botanic Garden and Arboretum, Museums and Libraries, 
and the Oxford Research Centre in the 
Humanities. We are committed to working in partnership to increase our cultural, societal and economic impact  
at both local and regional levels.
We will reach out to non-traditional 
learners through the work of our Department for Continuing Education offering flexible and blended (digital and 
traditional) learning.COMMITMENT 3
To engage with the public and policy 
makers to shape our research and 
education and to encourage the 
widest possible use of our research 
findings and expertise
Working in partnership with government, 
business, cultural organisations and others, we will look to inform the public 
and public policy through our research 
findings. We will also shape our research agenda, in part, through focusing attention on the issues of greatest  
social importance.
We believe that public engagement 
enriches research and society and, to  
that end, are committed to enabling our researchers to inspire, consult and 
collaborate with the public. We seek to 
embed high-quality and innovative public engagement as an integral part of our research culture and practice.
We will be an active partner in the 
development of open scholarship, providing the tools necessary for researchers to publish and share outputs from their research and to support 
national and international collaboration. 
Through continuing digital investment  
the University will reach global audiences and communities.
Oxford University Press will further the 
University‘s objectives of excellence in research, scholarship and education by publishing worldwide in the three intersecting markets of research, 
education and the learning of English.
COMMITMENT 4
Through our international 
engagement the University will  
aim to maximise the global social, 
cultural and economic benefit  
derived from our research and 
scholarship
Our international engagement will 
maintain and enhance strong institutional links across the globe, including those 
with the European Union, emerging economies and key partners, across  
the full spectrum of our research and 
scholarly activity. We will maintain our commitment to in-depth study of the world’s societies and cultures, supported 
by the outstanding breadth of our 
expertise in languages, ancient and modern. We will work to preserve and increase access to funding and networks to undertake our research and collaborate 
with suitable partners wherever they  
may be located, enabling both small-  
and large-scale research collaborations. 
We will seek to improve mobility opportunities for students, support  
the role of our staff and students in  
an interconnected world and raise the profile of our research and teaching 
internationally.
ENGAGEMENT AND PARTNERSHIP 
PRIORITIES
19. Expansion of the innovation districts 
in and around Oxford, including at 
Begbroke Science Park and Osney Mead.
20. Continued investment in digital tools 
and infrastructure to be a leader in open 
scholarship and support open access to 
collections and research data outputs.
21. Continue to improve the breadth and 
depth of public engagement through 
events and programmes delivered 
through multiple mechanisms, including the academic divisions and the Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM).
22. Expand strategic international 
research collaborations.
23. Support and expand international 
mobility opportunities for undergraduate 
and postgraduate students including  
non-term-time internships and  
on-course opportunities to study,  
undertake research or gain work 
experience abroad.
24. Inform, empower and mobilise  
alumni to become more knowledgeable 
and involved in support of the wider University.
6University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018–23
Resources
Oxford University benefits from the 
careful stewardship of resources by previous generations – ensuring that  
the University remains both financially and environmentally sustainable into  
the future is critical. Enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of our support services by simplifying  
systems and working together more collaboratively will be key to delivering  
a sustainable platform to underpin our education and research.
COMMITMENT 1
To manage our financial resources  
to ensure the collegiate University’s 
long-term sustainability
We recognise that effective control of 
the University’s resources underpins all our aspirations. The University will 
actively manage both its income and 
expenditure in an agile and responsive manner which enables the University  
to react swiftly and effectively to any changes in the external funding 
environment. Key to this will be 
protecting and growing our income streams by diversifying our income sources and pursuing an ambitious 
development strategy which seeks to 
fund our core long-term academic activities. The University will also  
seek to better integrate its support structures, to ensure that its excellent 
teaching and research is complemented 
by similarly excellent professional services. This will deliver an improved working environment for all staff and deliver significant cost reductions by 
driving out inefficiencies.COMMITMENT 2
To ensure that our estate provides  
an environment which promotes 
world-class research and education 
whilst minimising our environmental 
impact, conserving our historic  
built environment and improving  
our space utilisation
A prioritised capital programme will be 
developed which will ensure that the existing estate is refurbished and 
renewed and that it is complemented 
with new buildings. New buildings  
will be designed flexibly and to the highest standards of accessibility  
and environmental sustainability, in 
accordance with the University’s 
commitment to the Low Carbon  
Oxford charter, and will meet the  
users’ research and education needs.
A staff and student housing programme 
will be developed to deliver additional accommodation to mitigate the impact  
of the high cost of private-sector accommodation in Oxford. Where the 
opportunity and location allows, we will 
acquire properties which will ensure that the estate can develop and expand to meet the needs of research and education.
We will increase the opportunities for 
staff and students to travel sustainably around Oxford on bike or foot, benefitting their health and wellbeing and improving the local environment through traffic-
free cycle and pedestrian routes.
COMMITMENT 3
To continue to invest in our 
information technology capability to 
enhance the quality of our research 
and education and to streamline our 
administrative processes
We will invest in our information 
technology in order to increase research capability, enhance teaching and learning, 
and deliver efficiencies in support of 
administrative functions. We will deliver infrastructure which enables all staff  
and students to communicate effectively, 
share information securely and collaborate 
locally and globally. With a continuing focus on training and best-practice dissemination we aim to empower teachers and researchers to innovate, 
staff to use IT systems effectively, and 
students to improve their digital literacy for discovering, evaluating and creating information using digital technologies.
COMMITMENT 4
To raise funds to support the very 
best students, invest in our staff  
and their work, and provide new 
resources and infrastructure
We will ensure that fundraising and 
outreach efforts concentrate on those areas where we can be most effective 
and which address most strongly the 
strategic goals of the University.
RESOURCES PRIORITIES25. Diversify sources of income and 
investment including through partnership 
with the private sector, commercial activities, philanthropy and the breadth  
of sources of research funding.
26. Through the Focus programme 
deliver service and process improvements to allow the continued growth in research and education without an equivalent 
growth in service costs.
27. Deliver a capital investment 
programme in the estate and IT of at least £500 million by 2023.
28. By 2023, in partnership with the 
private sector, to have started the 
construction of at least 1,000 new subsidised homes for University and college staff.
29. Devise and implement a development 
strategy, appropriately resourced, which accords with the scale and ambition of the University’s strategic objectives.
Approved by Council 9 July 2018 and by Congregation on 30 October 2018
