SERVING A  
CHANGING
WORLD
PENN MEDICINE’S   
STRATEGIC PLAN  
2023-2028
 1
Penn Medicine’s strategic planning for 2023-2028 began at a time of unimaginable change —  
marked by a devastating pandemic and social upheaval, by transformative biomedical discoveries  
that prevent and cure disease, and by constant reminders of the enduring spirit of health care  
workers everywhere. Recent events have exposed immense need, but they have also revealed the 
increasingly wide lanes through which academic medicine can address those needs.  
We asked ourselves, “how can we serve this rapidly changing world?” Our answers came in five parts, reflecting  
both a broad mission and a commitment to elevating the field:
LEAD WITH HUMANITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO
MAKE BREATHTAKING DISCOVERIES AND PUT THEM TO WORK
SIMPLIFY CARE DELIVERY AND PLACE IT WITHIN REACH
DEVELOP PEOPLE FOR GREAT ACCOMPLISHMENT 
UPLIFT OUR COMMUNITY, OUR ENVIRONMENT, AND OURSELVES
We charged five working groups to develop strategies toward these goals. The working groups reflected the breadth 
and diversity of our students, faculty, staff, and university partners. We interviewed external thought leaders and 
did our best to take measure of where science and medicine were going. But mostly we asked ourselves. We had 
confidence that our answers would provide the truest sense of who we are and what we must do to advance.
FROM STRATEGY TO IMPLEMENTATION
The pages that follow reveal not just a sense of optimism about what can be achieved, but also the excitement to do 
it. After several years of ceaselessly reacting to unexpected challenges, we can once again take the reins. Our past 
strategic plans have placed us in a strong position to do so.
Penn Medicine’s integrated structure also strengthens and differentiates us. Our position of leadership derives in part 
from the integration of our academic programs and clinical enterprise. The clinical programs inspire and motivate us, 
and serve as additional classrooms and laboratories. Our academic programs hone our clinical expertise and create 
distinctive options for our patients. We see even more advantages to our integration going forward—expanding 
clinical trials, linking training to staffing, and providing balance during times of economic turbulence.
The strategies we have identified will have solid implementation plans. Every task or goal needs a leader, a process, 
a timeline, metrics, and accountability.  In some cases, new resources must be identified. However, some existing 
programs can redirect their targets and evolve their areas of emphasis.
These plans will also change. If the past few years have taught us anything, it is that.
EXECUTIVE  
SUMMARY  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY   |  2
THE THEMES THAT UNITE US, AND DEFINE US
Although this plan is organized in five pillars, those pillars reveal overlapping and interdependent themes, 
highlighting how much our success depends on the integration of our missions. Shared themes also highlight our 
vision for the future, the essential characteristics that unite and define us and that will ensure our success.
For example, we rely on people. Helping people love their work at Penn Medicine is both a goal in itself and an 
essential ingredient toward every other goal we pursue. Our missions are inspiring and impactful; yet, the past 
several years have revealed fundamental and perhaps permanent changes in how people situate work within their 
lives. Accepting those changes will require effort, but we embrace them because innovation thrives by challenging 
yesterday’s norms and conventions.
We also look forward to a world in which technology transforms how we work—how it makes care easier for 
our patients and easier for our clinicians. We are excited by technology’s promise for educating our students, 
accelerating research, and expanding the reach of all of our endeavors.
We have confidence in the scientific process—not only as the foundation of the research enterprise, but also as the 
way to improve how health care is delivered, inform how teaching should evolve, identify truths about health and 
share those with the world, and measure success in advancing community welfare. 
We also have confidence in Penn Medicine’s excellence, and recognize the opportunities and obligations that 
come with that leadership. We have an outstanding record of world-transforming contributions. As much as we have 
already developed and led, the vast majority of our accomplishments are ahead of us.
Finally, Penn Medicine is situated within one of the world’s greatest universities. As we continue on our path of 
discovery and innovation we are strengthened by the expertise other disciplines bring. Together, we are committed 
to doing big things well, to meeting society’s greatest challenges with fresh thoughts and actions, and to engaging 
our local communities along the way. 
THE PAGES THAT FOLLOW ARE OUR ROADMAP.
 3
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS
LEAD WITH HUMANITY  
IN EVERYTHING WE DO
PAGE 4
MAKE BREATHTAKING 
DISCOVERIES AND  
PUT THEM TO WORK
PAGE 6
SIMPLIFY CARE DELIVERY  
AND PLACE IT WITHIN REACH
PAGE 9
DEVELOP PEOPLE  
FOR GREAT  
ACCOMPLISHMENT
PAGE 11
UPLIFT OUR COMMUNITY,  
OUR ENVIRONMENT,  
AND OURSELVES
PAGE 13
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
PAGE 15
HOME
  4
The equitable distribution of health and health care are essential elements of justice. We will treat all of  
our staff, all of our patients, all of our students, and all of our communities with dedication and compassion. 
The University of Pennsylvania’s Latin motto recognizes that “laws without morals are useless.” The Hippocratic Oath  
and the personal passions that draw people into careers in health care and medical science reflect a similar view —  
that medicine without humanity is unfulfilled. Our aspirations to lead toward a just, inclusive, and equitable society are 
worthy of our ceaseless effort.
GOAL 1  LEAD WITH  
HUMANITY  
IN EVERYTHING WE DO  
REFLECT OUR COMMUNITY. 
Reflecting our community improves our ability to innovate. It also builds trust—improving the 
effectiveness of every interaction. Trust is earned by demonstrating the skills needed to help 
people, and the values to serve them. 
• Foster greater equity across all levels of the organization, in positions, advancement, 
influence, and reward
• Model and share best practices internally and externally
GIVE ALL PENN MEDICINE PATIENTS ACCESS  
TO ALL OF PENN MEDICINE. 
Health inequities often derive from disparate access even in the face of seeming availability. 
System access is an essential equity process.
• Identify common data elements needed to evaluate whether health care processes 
and health outcomes are equitably distributed, resource their analysis, reporting, and 
management
• Support staff, signage, and communications to provide personalized and trust-
enhancing guidance throughout the systemGOAL 2
LEAD WITH HUMANITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO   |  5
MODEL WORKFORCE HUMANITY. 
Workforce humanity is about supporting the basic needs of everyone, and accommodating 
for the individual needs of some. By prioritizing our workforce’s well-being, we can provide 
not only the best care possible, but also the most human-centered care imaginable.
• Ensure a living wage for all employees
• Support a culture of belonging
• Systematically surveil the social and economic determinants of employee burden to 
create responses to overcome them in housing, food, commuting, child and elder care, 
retirement planning, and other social needs
• Harmonize plans across the system
ESTABLISH ACCOUNTABILITY FOR EQUITY. 
Our efforts toward equity must be accurately measured and transparently reported  
to be effective.
• Recruit and appoint a new Vice Dean for Diversity and Inclusion and resource the 
office and aligned programs to continue and refine ongoing work
• Establish equity metrics across organizational units
• Regularly administer a climate questionnaire and respond to its findings
• Celebrate experiences of humanity and systematically detect and share its absence 
toward constructive purposesGOAL 3
LEADING WITH HUMANITY  
SHAPES OUR VISION.
It guides every element of the strategic plan. Success across each of our missions  
requires we see the human impact of our work, and how our efforts and outcomes  
are distributed. We aim for respect, understanding, and empathy. 
HOMEGOAL 4
HOME
  6
Discovery propels us, improving and differentiating our service to patients, students, and the world.  
We will invest in opportunities we can see now and invest in an environment that creates and captures 
prospects not yet seen.
Penn science has delivered transformative breakthroughs in cell-based and gene therapies, modified mRNA technology, 
and many other areas. These breakthroughs have already advanced human health and they offer even more exciting 
future opportunities. Alongside these and other contributions in the life sciences are opportunities to shape health policy; 
to develop digital technologies essential to making care easy, accessible, and affordable; to reshape our educational and 
clinical services into laboratories that improve operational efficiency, the welfare of our students and staff, and the health 
of our communities; and to overcome the barriers that limit the reach of these opportunities to all. 
GOAL 1  MAKE BREATHTAKING   
DISCOVERIES  
AND PUT THEM TO WORK  
AIM OUR RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE TOWARDS  
THE FUTURE. 
The most promising scientific opportunities are markedly different now, as are the ways 
scientists work and the kinds of support and partnerships required for success. Some of the 
boldest and most transformative gains can now be achieved only through teams.
• Identify 3-5 moonshot areas over the next 5 years and coordinate departments, 
centers, and schools across the university to combine interdisciplinary talents and 
complementary resources toward them
• Develop frontier research cores to support the most promising opportunities in basic, 
translational, and clinical research, health services and population health research, and 
new areas such as digital innovation; justify existing cores against the same standards 
required for new ones
• Reshape or reinterpret appointment and promotion criteria to welcome new pathways 
toward scholarly contribution, including team science collaboration, embedded data 
analysis, operational informatics, and commercialization
•  Redesign the social architecture of science with enticing communal spaces, events,  
and experiences that recreate and supercharge the serendipitous watercooler 
encounters of the pre-pandemic era
• Establish new and substantively meaningful bidirectional relationships between faculty 
members and industry, government, or other sectors and create more opportunities for 
faculty members departing for those sectors to remain engaged with Penn
HOME
MAKE BREATHTAKING DISCOVERIES AND PUT THEM TO WORK   |  7
GOAL 2
GOAL 3
GOAL 4LEAN-IN TO THE OPPORTUNITIES AND IMPERATIVES OF 
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY AND CLINICAL INFORMATICS. 
Improvements in the health and health care of individuals and populations derive not just 
from the development of tangible drugs and devices or the data we use to deploy them with 
precision, but also from the creation and evaluation of software that connects patients to health 
and health care, and that supports and unburdens their clinicians. Some of the talent required 
for success can be sourced from or recruited into Penn Medicine, but much requires external 
partnerships and new joint programs with other schools in the university.
• Coordinate and expand existing expertise in digital technology within Penn Medicine  
 and across Penn’s schools to promote the scholarly creation, deployment and testing of 
next-generation software and device-based solutions across our enterprises
• Embed digital technology R&D within clinical operations by promoting health system 
experiments with digital health interventions and creating a separate low friction pathway 
for their implementation and testing
• Encourage and recognize inventor contributions to digital commercial opportunities on  
a par with other scholarly contributions in life sciences
BUILD THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF HEAL TH EQUITY RESEARCH. 
Health equity research has existed at Penn Medicine for decades, and interest has greatly 
expanded across Penn and the world. Our continued ability to contribute at a standard  
in line with other mission-focused initiatives requires new ways to convene, engage, and  
reveal expertise.
• Create an identity to collectively represent distributed efforts
• Elevate the support, quality, and impact of health equity research 
RELEASE EVEN MORE SYNERGIES FROM OUR  
INTEGRATED MISSIONS. 
Penn Medicine’s integrated missions offer the promise that every patient contributes DNA to a 
biobank, that every patient participates in a clinical trial, or that the way care is staffed, designed, 
financed, or communicated is continuously subject to evaluation and improvement. These 
opportunities are a fundamental synergy of our integrated system.
• Create a facilitated data ecosystem to ease the aggregation of and access to data  
across the health system from operations, finance, and clinical data
• Prioritize the collection of data relevant to the measurement and promotion of  
health equity 
• Engage faculty pursuing health care research with health system priorities, establishing 
combined teams to execute, evaluate, and disseminate results
• Expand the biobank to include the collection of social and behavioral data from our patients 
• Integrate all clinical entities into a single research hub, with a universal IRB and other 
system efficiencies 
HOME
MAKE BREATHTAKING DISCOVERIES AND PUT THEM TO WORK  |  8
GOAL 5MAKE PENN MEDICINE THE WORLD’S MOST RECOGNIZED 
SOURCE OF SCIENTIFIC INNOVATION. 
Penn Medicine’s scientific contributions substantially exceed its reputation. We will promote 
the broader recognition of our accomplishments—because reputation attracts students, staff, 
patients, and philanthropy.
• Define, cultivate, and engage audiences of influencers relevant to attracting scientists 
and the partnerships and philanthropy that support their work
• Map our existing national and global leadership and networks, and then steward those 
relationships toward deep, mission-aligned relationships
• Cascade and amplify the processes and successes of the PSOM awards committee to 
departments, centers and institutes, and internally share best practices for capturing 
recognition
• Communicate the stories and personalities of Penn Medicine in exciting formats and 
novel channels
• Organize and support new approaches for elevating the Penn Medicine presence at 
high influence scientific and professional meetings

HOME
SIMPLIFY   
CARE DELIVERY  
AND PLACE IT WITHIN REACH  
HOME  9
Patient Care must be easy on patients and easy on clinicians. Placing care within reach means making  
it accessible and affordable, offering accommodation and reassurance. We will adapt delivery systems  
to the needs of patients and clinicians.
Penn Medicine is distinguished by its ability to care for the most complex patients. Patients facing cancer, heart disease, 
or any number of other conditions can expect better outcomes because they receive their care from Penn Medicine. 
When illness strikes, care from Penn provides a sense of confidence and comfort. If Penn Medicine isn’t there to support 
the community, it’s hard to imagine how the resulting gaps could be filled. Because of our academic enterprise, and 
because of our ability to recruit and support the best clinicians, we are the gateway to the best outcomes, and to the 
future of health care.
Penn Medicine must also lead in reducing the cost of health care, because only by reducing cost, can we make care 
sustainable and extend its reach. Penn Medicine must also lead the way in supporting clinicians who take care of our 
patients and community. Clinicians chose health care from a desire to help others, and we owe it to them to make their 
missions easy and effective. Penn Medicine must innovate in science, education, clinical operations, and community 
engagement. The leadership we’ve earned also creates obligations to help others improve with us.
GOAL 1 RECOGNIZE SCIENCE AS A LEADING DIFFERENTIATOR  
OF WHAT WE BRING TO PATIENTS. 
We are distinguished by our advanced medicine, but we will effectively serve our 
communities only if it is accessible to them.
• Lean into our leadership in advanced therapies, expanding access to broader 
populations
• Evaluate expansion within and beyond local markets with test opportunities in 
advanced care, multi-specialty and primary care, and direct-to-employer strategies
• Realign our affiliation with the Veterans Health Administration into a more clinically 
and financially synergistic partnership 
• Relentlessly aim for high reliability in our care, our equity, and our clinical and 
community outcomes
HOME
SIMPLIFY CARE DELIVERY AND PLACE IT WITHIN REACH   |  10
BE, AND BE SEEN AS, THE MOST CLINICIAN-FRIENDL Y 
HEAL TH SYSTEM. 
We best serve our patients by recruiting, retaining, and supporting the best clinicians. We will 
enable clinician service and innovation, relentlessly eliminating unnecessary burdens clinicians 
face, and shaping new and flexible work accommodations to situate careers within lives.
• Transform the EHR into a better tool for care delivery, and make it less burdensome
• Support the unreimbursed activities of clinical care, like In Basket management, just as 
well as the reimbursed activities, because all are essential for our mission
• Automate high-volume repeatable processes that do not require human touch, and 
modernize use of Epic modules and non-Epic add-on middleware
• Continuously work with payers toward the elimination of pre-certifications and other 
administrative burdens, and toward the simplification of those that remain
• Deploy guideline-based care at the level of the system, releasing individual clinicians  
from algorithmic medical activities
• Systematically identify and overcome inefficiencies that frustrate clinicians professionally 
and personally
• Make Penn Medicine Medical Group the preferred organization for the best physicians  
in the nation
MAKE PENN MEDICINE A SOURCE OF COMFORT, EASE,  
AND REASSURANCE. 
The great writer and activist Maya Angelou said that “people will forget what you said, people 
will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.” We must 
acknowledge that the clinical care experience is not always as comforting and accommodating 
to patients and their families as it should be, and we will own the response to that challenge.
• Relentlessly simplify Penn Medicine patient engagement at every touchpoint
• Consistently offer patient visits harmonized across specialties with coordinated  
laboratory and imaging services
• Pursue delivery system innovations and value-based financial reimbursement that  
better align what we deliver with what patients need 
• Enhance partnerships with physicians throughout the region to increase access  
to our system
EMBRACE ANYTIME-ANYWHERE. 
Health care has long been delivered through synchronous face-to-face engagement.  
To better support our patients and our clinicians, our patterns of care and the ways they  
are reimbursed must co-evolve. We will lead the redesign and advocacy of both.
• Pursue payment models that support new sites of care
• Organize clinical capabilities to enhance asynchronous care including digital,  
and synchronous telemedicine and homecare
• Use digital engagement to embed Penn Medicine more comfortably in patients’  
everyday livesGOAL 2
GOAL 3
GOAL 4
HOME
  11
  
DEVELOP PEOPLE  
FOR GREAT ACCOMPLISHMENT  
Health care and population health are human enterprises. We will create and deploy new approaches to 
transform training and professional development.
We are the nation’s first medical school, and throughout our history we have produced many of the world’s most accomplished 
physicians and scientists. As the largest employer in the region, we also serve an indispensable role in creating opportunity and 
fostering the development of our community. The scientific discoveries, the facilities and programs, and the hope that come to 
mind when thinking about Penn Medicine are there only because of the people behind them.
The last few years have seen fundamental changes in how people think about the role of work in their lives—changes that 
seem likely to endure. Success across each of our missions requires that we recognize and embrace the changing ways 
careers are created and deployed.
GOAL 1 GET PEOPLE INTO THEIR CAREERS FASTER,  
LESS EXPENSIVELY, AND MORE FLEXIBLY. 
The many years of training to become a physician or scientist, the months it takes to onboard 
a registered nurse in the operating room, the extended time to reach full stride—these are 
burdens on students, staff, and faculty that increase cost and reduce societal value. Penn 
Medicine should differentiate itself in career speed and progression, even as we introduce 
more flexibility to recognize that some of the most important contributions, and contributors, 
follow winding paths.
• Reduce training time for clinicians and scientists, targeting undergraduate, graduate,  
and postdoctoral periods, potentially shortening, eliminating, or fusing phases
• Accelerate the journey to independent investigator, changing conventions of training 
times and reducing reliance on intermediating post-doctoral and instructor positions
• Recognize, measure, and address the additional delays imposed on physician scientists, 
and shorten or eliminate the high-attrition periods between trainee and investigator
• Similarly reduce onboarding time for new staff, perhaps through simulation training,  
or a graded system of responsibility and supervision
• Reduce both the cost of education for our students and the cost structure borne by  
the institution providing it
HOME
DEVELOP PEOPLE FOR GREAT ACCOMPLISHMENT   |  12
GOAL 2
GOAL 3
GOAL 4CREATE THE WORKFORCE OUR PATIENTS AND  
ENTERPRISE NEED TOMORROW. 
Our changing hiring needs are a leading indicator of training opportunities and imperatives. 
Participating in the training and production of the staff we need advantages our ability to identify 
and hire the best, and builds community opportunity. 
• Bridge critical hiring gaps with either new free-standing training programs or by external 
partnerships that facilitate entry into critical positions, shifting our position on the ‘make  
or buy’ continuum more toward the ‘make’ side
• Develop and test earn-to-learn programs to support, encourage, and model professional 
advance and transition
• Invest in preceptorships and space required to support training programs and partnerships
• Expand community outreach to high school and college students to engage them earlier 
in the pipeline to Penn Medicine and to support community opportunity
LEAD NOT JUST IN EDUCATION, BUT IN THE RESEARCH  
AND INNOVATION OF EDUCATION. 
We owe our advances in clinical care to our past investments in science. There is similar 
opportunity to advance the science of education to improve how we create the workforce that 
can continue these traditions. Exciting developments in simulation, artificial intelligence, and 
promising new models of training offer enormous opportunities for educational innovation.
• Evolve our educational programs into laboratories to generate evidence, experimenting 
with new teaching methods, programmatic structure, centralized digital platforms for 
education innovation and simulation
• Raise the evidentiary standards for evaluating the success of training initiatives, attracting 
and deploying the science that turned health care quality into something that could be 
advanced because it could be measured
• Refocus the awards that celebrate teaching excellence toward the recognition of tested 
and high value educational science and innovation
• Create an Academy of Master Educators to support recognition, mentorship, and coaching
• Imagine, pilot, and evaluate new approaches to selecting students
ADVANCE PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THEIR CAREERS. 
Ambition can aim toward upward advance, toward continued excellence, or toward diversified 
experience. We want to encourage ambition of all kinds within our organization by supporting 
people and retaining their contributions through the many phases of their lives.
• Ensure that every staff member has an actionable career plan, and that every key position 
has an actionable succession plan
• Create pathways for staff to transfer into alternative roles and gain new skills
• Enable or assign mentorship outside of direct supervisors to promote coaching, 
development, recognition, and transition
• Expand the opportunity range for retiring staff, including part time paid and volunteer 
work, mentorship, patient advocacy 
• Smooth transitions within the health system and between the health system  
and the school with more harmonized compensation and benefits structures,  
recognizing legacy and locality needs for some differences
HOME
HOME  13
We live here. We will improve our community, improve the lives of our students and staff, and improve  
the natural environment.
The areas around Philadelphia, Princeton, Chester, and Lancaster counties vary in their geography and demography. 
What creates community is a sense that something is shared: maybe it is a history, maybe it is an opportunity, often what 
is shared is a sense of mutual responsibility. We aim to serve the health and welfare of people and our communities. 
Protecting our planet underpins all of our goals—health, economic stability, and harmony with the natural environment.
The greatest asset of academic medicine is access to thousands of people with the skills and passion to improve the 
world, and the trust our community has granted us to deliver upon that promise. We want people to love working at 
Penn Medicine—because of what they do, and how we support them and the world around them.
GOAL 1  UPLIFT OUR  
COMMUNITY,  
OUR ENVIRONMENT, AND OURSELVES  
INCREASE LIFE EXPECTANCY AND THE SOCIAL AND  
ECONOMIC WELFARE OF COMMUNITY RESIDENTS. 
We will serve our missions better if we devote the same relentless energy and discipline to 
community efforts that we devote to treating illness.
• Expand our quality measurement beyond the care of our patients to include the health 
of our community members, whether they are our patients or not 
• Establish system-wide approaches to community development, outcomes, reporting, 
and accountability
• Reconfigure our triennial Community Health Needs Assessments to harmonize best 
practices across the system and more closely tether our actions to our findings
• Redirect purchasing and procurement strategies to help close local wealth gaps
• Engage our community in participatory input and collaboration, establishing an 
advisory structure and scope of decision-making power for our community members
HOME
UPLIFT OUR COMMUNITY, OUR ENVIRONMENT, AND OURSELVES  |  14
GOAL 2
GOAL 3
GOAL 4ESTABLISH PENN MEDICINE AS THE NATION’S MOST  
ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY HEAL TH CARE ORGANIZATION. 
The greatest threat to the health of the planet’s inhabitants is the threat to the health of the planet. 
The LEED Gold certification of the new patient pavilion recognizes our passion and efforts but we 
have much more to do because of health care’s disproportionate planetary burden. 
• Establish and resource a Sustainability Office to: 
 »develop and oversee goals, environmental impact metrics, and sustainability  
strategies including the coordination of efforts across the enterprise and the university;
 »reshape conventions and renegotiate contracts to elevate goals of planetary health,  
in areas as diverse as employee work arrangements, professional travel, food sourcing,  
telemedicine reimbursement, supply chain impact reporting
 »build coalitions with other academic medical centers and local, national, or 
international organizations;
 »support the development of programs in education, research, and scholarship to 
integrate planetary health into the field of medicine 
• Foster community engagement in climate-related initiatives to improve sustainability  
within our system as well as for the communities and patients we serve
REDUCE THE WORKPLACE AND LIFE BURDENS THAT  
IMPEDE EMPLOYEE WELLNESS.
Attention is often focused on employee support and resilience when what is really needed is 
an environment that doesn’t burden staff in the first place. Some burdens reflect a challenging 
workplace, some reflect spillover from a 24/7 mission into what should be safe harbors at home, 
and some reflect the ‘second shifts’ at home.
• Embrace new models of workplace flexibility to support our people and our mission
• Model a culture of work-life balance
• Evolve the mission and system-wide organizational structure for Occupational Health to 
support service, research, and educational missions and the ongoing measurement of 
individual and system-level personal welfare
• Realign the structure and availability of onsite child care to current needs, and explore 
support for elder care
ADVANCE CARE FOR OUR EMPLOYEES AS  
WE WOULD ADVANCE CARE FOR OUR PATIENTS.
Even as we endeavor to address workplace and life burdens at their underlying sources, 
employees need support for the challenges that persist.
• Enable rapid and universal employee access to Penn Medicine primary care, specialty, 
and mental health care
• Expand the resourcing and ease of entry into COBALT for mental health services
• Develop or acquire a COBALT-like platform to provide a digital front door to primary care
• Establish and respond to accountability metrics for employee wellness and health care
HOME
STRATEGIC PLAN COMMITTEE   |  15
Leads: Carmen Guerra AND Atheendar Venkataramani
Amber Bird
Chalanda Evans
Judd FleschReina Fleury
Wumesh Kc
Heather KlusaritzMeghan Lane-Fall
Florence Momplaisir
Daniel MorrisChristina Roberto 
Junko Takeshita
Leads: Zoltan Arany AND Marylyn Ritchie
Shelley Berger 
Cesar de la Fuente
Mucio Kit Delgado
Scott HalpernSarah Hegarty
David Issadore
Edmond Kabagambe
Despina KontosEthan Mack
Aimee Payne
Avery Posey
Srinivas Sridhara Rachel Werner
Leads: Tanya Andreadis AND Neil Malhotra 
James Demetriades
David Do
Thomas Gakis
Sara GinzbergDouglas Jacoby
Sarah Johnson
Shivan Mehta
Nicholas MollanazarChristina O’Malley
Randall Oyer
Matthew Press
Hummy SongLindsey Zinck
Leads: Cara Cipriano AND Ilene Rosen
Danielle Feffer
Nicholina Haldane-
LuuerodtDan Hashimoto
Nan Hodgson
Boon Thau LooDavid Mankoff
Phillip Pierorazio
Divya ShahBeth Smith
Susan Sterkenberg
Suzana Tsao
Leads: Amanda Williams AND John Wood
Ajeenah Amir
Olenga Anabui
Uduak Umoh AndyEmily Becker-Haimes
Charles Howard
Farah HussainSebastian Ramagnano
Misha Rosenbach
Anish ShethEugenia South
Kim Strauch
Alice Yoder LEAD WITH HUMANITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO
MAKE BREATHTAKING DISCOVERIES AND PUT THEM TO WORK
SIMPLIFY CARE DELIVERY AND PLACE IT WITHIN REACH
DEVELOP PEOPLE FOR GREAT ACCOMPLISHMENT
UPLIFT OUR COMMUNITY, OUR ENVIRONMENT, AND OURSELVES
WORKING GROUPS  STRATEGIC PLAN LEADERSHIP TEAM
Leads: David A. Asch AND Lori Gustave
Jefferson Akers
Stephanie Markunas
Laura NickroszJulliana Yoon
Amy WeleskiEXECUTIVE SPONSORS
J. Larry Jameson AND Kevin Mahoney
STEERING COMMITTEE
Lisa Bellini
P.J. Brennan
Deborah DriscollJonathan Epstein
Thomas Hecker
Eve HigginbothamKeith Kasper
Chris Masotti
Suzanne RoseMichele VolpeACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  

The design motif featured in the strategic plan was created by Nikita Rochiramani and then modified by  
Penn Medicine Creative Services. It draws inspiration from Maya Lin’s Tree of Life sculpture that graces the  
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania-Pavilion lobby. The design aims to convey that the plan will  
grow and evolve, to evoke the interconnectedness of our several missions, and to reflect the foundation  
that we will lead with humanity in everything we do.

