Strategic Plan P ompeu F abra Univ ersity 2016 - 2025
The UPF Str ategic Plan/The UPF Str ategic Plan
Pompeu F abra Univ ersity was founded with the aim of becoming a leading univ ersity, building on a unique
identit y based on qualit y teaching, pro ximity to students, maximum internationalization, and an emphatic
orientation tow ards research and inno vation. Just twent y-five years on, we ha ve achiev ed this goal. UPF has
not only established itself as a benchmark for the Catalan univ ersity system, but has also positioned itself on a
par with the top univ ersities in Europe and r anks high on a v ariety of prestigious international r ankings. Its
leadership toda y rests on the singular and distinguishing tr aits that were forged when it w as founded.
Now it is time to look to the future. Univ ersities ha ve reached a turning point, mark ed by a global par adigm
shift that poses new challenges and calls on us to redefine our tr aditional missions and encour age commitment
to societ y, our communities and culture.
This new scenario lik ewise requires us to further strengthen our internationalization, to foster
interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary learning, to update the process both in and outside the classroom,
and to promote inno vative forms of go vernance and management. It is in this changing context that we
present the Str ategic Plan 2016-2025, which la ys out the lines we wish to pursue in the coming y ears to
consolidate our leadership and become an activ e player in this tr ansformation and in the modernization that
the univ ersity world so requires.
This tr ansformation has to be people-oriented. Now more than ev er, people are UPF’ s reason for being. That
is why we sought to in volve the entire univ ersity communit y in the Plan’ s prepar ation, through a broad
participatory process that included multiple mechanisms for pro viding input and lasted for more than ten
months. T o this end, we organiz ed round-table discussions and conferences, set up working groups and
advisory committees, launched discussion groups and open forums, created virtual spaces for discussion
and sharing opinions, and prepared and shared specific documents and reports on UPF’ s history and current
status. As a result of this process, the Str ategic Plan 2016-2025 reflects the multiplicit y of perspectiv es of
all the groups, stak eholders and collabor ators that mak e up the institution and is firmly intended to be the
‘plan for ev eryone’.
Work on dev eloping the Str ategic Plan began in 2014, when the team in charge conducted a preliminary
benchmarking study , analyzing and comparing fort y univ ersities around the world and sev eral of their
strategic plans. With the assistance of a group of advisors , this study w as used to dev elop the working
methodology  to be followed to dev elop our plan. A t the same time, the responsible services and units
were ask ed to prepare seven sectoral reports and studies  to facilitate the analysis of the univ ersity’s
current status and pro vide quantitativ e data on teaching, research, knowledge tr ansfer , human resources,
internationalization, social responsibilit y, and emplo yment. Additionally , two external studies were
commissioned: a surv ey on knowledge and the identit y of UPF , with the support of the Board of T rustees,
conducted b y GESOP , and a bibliometric analysis comparing UPF to sev en leading univ ersities, carried out
by the Centre for Science a n d T echnology Studies (CWT S) at the Univ ersity of Leiden. The pooling of these
reports and studies ga ve rise to the initial diagnosis , which pro vided the starting line for the participatory
process.
The participatory process  began in January 2015, with the formation of fiv e working groups  made up of
more than one hundred people from v arious stak eholder groups, including administr ative staff , teaching and
research staff , students, alumni and UPF trustees, as well as external experts. Each of the fiv e groups held
about four working sessions between F ebruary and July 2015 under the coordination of a chair . Their work
culminated in the prepar ation of a specific report on their respectiv e area containing diagnostic data and
specific str ategic proposals. The Str ategic Plan 2016-2025 drew on all of these contributions. A t the same
time, v arious round-table discussions and conferences  were held that were open to the public and
intended to stimulate reflection and debate. Subsequently , in June 2015, two forums open to the entire
university community  were also held, one on the Ciutadella campus and the other on the P oblenou
campus, making it possible for all those in attendance to submit their own suggestions to impro ve the
future of UPF .
CloseThis face-to-face participation w as complemented with online participation mechanisms , such as opinion
spaces, a dedicated suggestion bo x and an ideas bank, and with the publication of all the materials
prepared throughout the process for the communit y members to review and discuss. Thus, the process of
preparing the Str ategic Plan w as enriched b y the activ e participation, reflection and discussion on the part
of the univ ersity communit y as a whole.
The result of this participatory process is this new plan, which allows us to define our objectiv es and specif y
the measures and actions to be implemented in accordance with the mission, vision and v alues that should
henceforth inspire and guide us. W e will thus set the course to be followed to consolidate our position as a
leading, global, dynamic, inno vative univ ersity, pursuing the goals set out in the Plan’ s five strategic areas –
teaching, research, outreach and reputation, the univ ersity communit y, and finance and go vernance – each
of which is lik ewise shaped b y the additional mainstreamed priorities of internationalization and
commitment. In short, the Str ategic Plan 2016-2025 aims to be the tool that will allow us to start to
become toda y the modern, agile and committed univ ersity required b y the societ y of tomorrow .
Jacint Jordana
Strategic Plan director
Carles Ramió
Vice-rector for Planning
Participative processWorking
groups
98
participantsRound tables
and lectures1617
YouTube views
2263
streaming
views
400
attendantsHigher education
future challengesThe impact of ICT
on teaching
TransparencyInternacionalization
University Social
responsabilitKnowledge transfer
Focus
groups40
participants
15
participantsStudents
Administrative
and service
staffOpen
forums
57
attendantsOnline
participati
on2192
unique website
visits
Twitter:
#futurUPFSuggestions
mailboxOnline
commentsBank of innovative
ideasUniversity Senate
DebatesTeaching
and
learningResearch
and
innovationSociety, city
and
transformation University community:
identity and
participation
Finance,
government
and
management
Diagnosis reports and
strategic proposalsLectures
Round tables
