 
 EXCELLENCE AND BEYOND  
 
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN  
2017 -2021   

PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
2 Table of Contents  
PMU, THE SECOND DECADE 2016 -2026  ................................ ................................ .....................  4 
PATHWAYS TO THE FUTURE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 4 
ACADEMIC INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE  ................................ ................................ .. 5 
INTERNATIONALIZATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  5 
GROWTH AND EXPANSION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 6 
ENGAGING THE EASTERN PROVINCE  ................................ ................................ ................  7 
PREAMBLE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  8 
HISTORY  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  10 
THE FIRST STRATEGIC PLAN 2007 -2011  ................................ ................................ ..................  11 
THE SECOND STRATEGIC  PLAN 2012 -2016  ................................ ................................ ............  12 
THE THIRD STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021  ................................ ................................ .................  13 
PMU Goals, Objectives, and Initiatives 2017 -2021  ................................ ................................ .. 14 
GOALS:  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  14 
OBJECTIVES:  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  14 
INITIATIVES: ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  14 
SWOT ANALYSIS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  15 
STRENGTHS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 15 
WEAKNESSES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  15 
OPPORTUNITIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  16 
THREATS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  16 
VISION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  17 
MISSION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  17 
VALUES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  17 
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 18 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION  ................................ .. 18 
EXCELLENCE IN RESEARCH AND INNOVATION  ................................ ...............................  21 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN RESEARCH AND INNOVATION  21 
OUTREACH AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT  ................................ ................................  26 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT  .........  26 
QUALITY AN D PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT  ................................ ...............................  28 
GOAL 1: MAINTAIN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE SAUDI ARABIA QUALIFICATION 
FRAMEWORK  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  28 
GOAL 2: ENSURE  INTERN ATIONAL RECOGNITION PROGRAMS  ................................ . 29 
INTERNATIONALIZATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  30 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION  ................................ .. 30 
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
3 GRADUATE STUDIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  33 
GOVERNANCE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  35 
GOAL 1: MAINTAIN A UNIVERSITY GOVERNING BODY THAT OPERATES  
EFFECTIVELY IN THE INTERESTS OF THE INSTITUTION  ................................ ................  35 
GOAL 2: FOSTER A UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE SYSTEM THAT INSTILLS 
FLEXIBILITY, TRANSPARENCY, ACCOUNTABILITY  ................................ .........................  36 
GOAL 3: FOSTER A UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE SYSTEM THAT INSTILLS 
FLEXIBILITY, TRANSPARENCY, ACCOUNTABILIT Y, SHARED RESPONSIBILITY, 
AND A POSITIVE ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE  ................................ ................................ .. 37 
UNIVERSITY INFRASTRUCTURE  ................................ ................................ ..............................  39 
REVENUE DIVERSIFICATION AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT  ................................ ... 41 
GOAL 1: DIVERSIFY T HE REVENUE SOURCES AND EXPAND BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  41 
ENDOWMENTS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  42 
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
4 PMU, THE SECOND DECADE 2016 -2026  
 
Dr. Issa H. Alansari  
PMU President  
 
 
PATHWAYS TO THE FUTU RE 
 
“AS PMU 
EMBARKS ON ITS 
SECOND DECADE, 
WE FEEL 
COMMITTED TO 
MAINTAIN A 
STRONG 
INSTITUTIONAL 
REPUTATION, 
BUILDING ON 
STRENGTHS BUT 
MOST 
IMPORTANTLY 
ELEVATING OUR 
COMMITMENTS 
TO THE 
COMPLEXITY OF 
THE CHALLENGES 
RAISED IN THE 
AGE OF 
KNOWLEDGE 
AND IN THE 
LIGHT OF AN 
EVER CHANGING 
GLOBAL 
LANDSCAPE.”  
 It is remarkable that the founders of this University had the right 
vision and the courage to lay the foundation stone for an academic 
institution with the philosophy that today›s students become 
tomorrow›s lead ers who will make positive contributions to our 
society. The success of this vision during the last decade was 
unparalleled. PMU is recognized now as one of the top private 
teaching Universities in the Kingdom.  
Since its inception, PMU has witnessed a dec ade of dedication and 
growth. Ten years of hard work to lay strong foundations in 
teaching and learning, excellence and innovation, diversity and 
inclusion and community service and engagement. As PMU 
embarks on its second decade, we feel committed to main tain a 
strong institutional reputation, building on strengths but most 
importantly elevating our commitments to the complexity of the 
challenges raised in the age of knowledge and in the light of an 
ever changing global landscape.  
We present to the reade rs the PMU Rector’s vision for the Second 
Decade, This vision presents the main focus areas and projects that 
will mark the history of PMU between 2016 & 2026. PMU 
Strategic Plan 2017 -2021 provides us with a framework for a bold 
and exciting future, and ou tlines the strategies we need to achieve 
this vision.  
It responds to changes in national policy and shifting market 
conditions, but holds intact the PMU’s Founders aspirations. Once 
again, I call on those whose lives have been touched by PMU, to 
join me i n achieving our vision that PMU will be KSA’s premier 
private university in shaping “Global Citizens” by enabling 
education for the jobs of the future and by stimulating research 
with impact that makes a pragmatic difference to the communities 
we serve. Ou r success in a very competitive future depends on the 
continued commitment and contribution of all our faculty and staff 
to supporting our students in pursuing our learning and research 
mission.  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
5 OUR EFFORT  WILL BE DIRECTED 
TOWARDS 5 MAIN AREAS:  
 
 
 
ACAD EMIC INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE  
 
In the second decade…  we envision PMU as:  
 
 An ever more student -centered academic environment increasing efforts towards building a 
distinguished graduate profile that is aligned with the changing global landscape;  
 A consta ntly innovative learning environment introducing state -of-the art learning technologies 
and pioneering methodologies;  
 A nationally and internationally accredited university;  
 An institution providing prestigious Graduate Studies in innovative fields;  
 An ins titution offering new majors that respond to the national and international needs;  
 An institution focusing on Research with Impact.  
 
INTERNATIONALIZATION  
 
In the second decade…  we envision PMU as:  
 
 An institution that actively engages with the UN Academic  Impact priorities;  
 An institution that is globally connected to the international academic community, the business 
and industries, and to the global issues in the world today;  
 A campus where each individual: student, faculty and staff member reflects the global 
connectivity envisioned by the institution;  
 A university where all students experience adequate international exposure during their 
academic career;  
 An academic environment that ensures equal opportunity, diversity and inclusion throughout 
all of it s programs;  
 An Institution that participates in building global peace and tolerance through education.  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROWTH AND EXPANSION  
 
In the second decade…  we envision PMU as:  
 
 Ensure that PMU becomes a landmark of the region;  
 Reach a capacity of 10,000 s tudents, with equal gender distribution and a target of 15% 
international students;  
 Expand the campus facility through:  
 Establishing two Male and Female Preparatory Program dedicated 
buildings;  
 Establishing new administrative offices;  
 Building a multi -story car park to accommodate more student and staff 
vehicles;  
 Completing the Housing Project;  
 Making PMU a landmark of the region.  
 Open one regional campus.  
 Complete and launch the Medical School and Teaching Hospital. Complete and launch the 
Prince Sultan  College for Visually Impaired.  
 Continue to improve the PMU infrastructure through development projects. Establish the 
school of law.  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
7 IN THE SECOND DECADE, WE AIM TO 
ENSURE THAT PMU BECOMES A 
LANDMARK OF THE EASTERN PROVINCE  
 
 
ENGAGING THE EASTERN PROVIN CE 
 
In the second decade…  we envision PMU as:  
 
 The Kingdom’s National Vision for 2030 as an active 
participant on  
 the immediate and long terms;  
 The Youth of the Eastern Province through community 
programs; The Businesses and Industries of the Eastern 
Province through training, entrepreneurship, advisory 
boards, endowments, and applied research; The local 
authorities through the Public Policy Center;  
 Our plans to ensure PMU becomes a landmark of the 
Eastern Province;  
 Our students as ambassadors in local an d global 
citizenship programs.   
“IN THE SECOND 
DECADE, WE AIM 
TO ENGAGE WITH 
THE KINGDOM’S 
NATIONAL 
VISION FOR 2030.”  
 
 
LEGAL STATUS AND FUNDING  
 
 PMU to become an endowed University;  
 PMU to reach an endowment value of 500M SAR.  
 
“OUR ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILI TY IS TO PROVIDE STUDENTS 
WITH THE BEST EDUCATION POSSIBLE SO THAT THEY MAY 
ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS, SUCCEED AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS AND 
IMPROVE THEIR COMMUNITIES IN THE NATION AND THE 
WORLD: THIS IS THE PMU PROMISE.”  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
8 PREAMBLE  
 
 
Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd Univer sity is a unique institution in the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia that since its inception has charted distinct pathways to academic excellence. PMU from the 
beginning developed a curriculum that transcended the traditional restrictions of teaching classical 
education and based its approach rather on learning with a particular focus on six competencies. We are 
confident that thus far we have been successful in educating our multifaceted student body and are 
proud of our alumni, who have excelled and led in all ar eas of endeavor at local, national, and 
international levels. Many words have been used to describe the nature of this institution as a whole: 
creative, entrepreneurial, and engaged. PMU has become and remains one of the most distinguished 
and preeminent i nstitution of private higher education in the Kingdom.   
From its founding, PMU focused on excellence in teaching. We take as a matter of course that all of 
our students deserve a first -rate education. PMU achieved its purpose with pride at this level durin g the 
first decade. The question now is: How can PMU build upon its trajectory of growth in size, quality, 
and impact through a large network of national and international partners to reach new heights of 
academic prominence in the next quinquennial?   
This Strategic Plan under the theme: “Excellence and Beyond” aims to expand the scope of the 
university to “Research with Impact”. The progressive introduction of applied research to solve the 
persistent and eminent problems of the industry and the community P MU serves will be our next 
additional mission. PMU will not only transfer knowledge but will create the needed knowledge that 
serves the society in which we are living and beyond with the unique purpose to improve the well -being 
of the Citizens and those w ho live in the Kingdom. PMU is not -for-profit organization. PMU is engaged 
in the journey of quality and excellence in every aspect of its processes and continues to push the 
boundaries of its comfort zone to serve tirelessly more and better its students a nd the KSA society.   
Besides, our vision for a brighter PMU is to develop students who are globally connected and to shape 
Global Citizens with the 21st century soft skills that crosscut and transcend the boundaries of 
disciplinary knowledge. PMU invested heavily in a varied living -learning environment for students. 
With that success as a backdrop, this plan calls for developing further competencies in our students who 
not only can work and live everywhere but they will be equipped with the skills that invo lve them in 
global issues with a refined humanitarian sense for tolerance, peace building, moderation, conflict 
resolution, poverty eradication, protection of the environment and sustainability.   
Furthermore,  the Saudi Vision 2030 offers a futuristic visio n for incoming generation that will lessen 
dependence on oil and stimulate other sectors that rely essentially on highly qualified human resources 
in a knowledge economy. PMU, as a social responsible higher education institution, supports these 
aspirations  towards the post -oil era and our current Strategic Plan 2017 -2021 has taken into 
consideration the role and duties that should be played by the higher education sector at this turning 
point to contribute in the implementation of the strategic vision of th e national transformation of the 
Kingdom.   
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
9  
 
 
 
Finally, it is noteworthy that the Strategic Planning Management was faculty and student driven. Each 
party has developed ideas within one of the following areas: education; research, scholarship, and 
creativity; public engagement (outreach); and organizational stewardship. The Strategic Plan was a 
collection of ideas of change for a better future. The diversity and comprehensiveness of the participants 
in the project are a fountainhead of creativity and i nnovation. The strategic planning effort was 
organized around few questions: 1) What are our essential qualities? 2) What are our key challenges? 
3) What are our priorities for the next five years? 4) What are our objectives and more precisely our 
commitme nts (that should be actionable and measurable) to address the priorities we drew for the next 
five years?   
The PMU Strategic Plan 2017 -2021 addresses the previous issues with a tension between our ambitious 
aspirations and our realistic human and capital r esources. We aimed to balance between these two 
forces. We took the decision that PMU in the next five years emerge from the shortfalls and invest 
rigorously and proactively in its future with the strong belief that “failure is not an option” and we will 
continue what we started with serenity and wisdom for generations to come. We believe that these goals 
and the specific initiatives that support them would never be implemented without the usual 
collaborative efforts and commitment to inclusion of the staff , faculty, students, and the PMU 
community supporters.    
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
10 HISTORY  
 
 
 
PMU is the first private university in the Eastern Province of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. PMU started operations with the 
approval of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques for the 
estab lishment of the University and PMU Charter. The university 
is the fulfillment of the vision and initiative of His Royal Highness 
Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd Bin Abdul -Aziz, The former 
Governor of KSA Eastern Province. PMU’s most unique 
characteristic compared  to all Saudi universities is its intrinsic 
benchmarking of its system, curriculum, defining characteristics 
and competencies of its graduates and the context in which its 
feasibility, vision and mission was designed. PMU was framed by 
local visionaries wh o partnered with carefully chosen institution 
building consortium of over 32 USA universities TIEC. More than 
62 local and international teams of experts in higher education, 
curriculum design, program specification, syllabi identification 
and higher educa tion governance worked for over two years to 
frame PMU system. This was all completed much before 
admitting PMU first student. By including such unique expertise 
at the framing stage, PMU was well positioned to inherit hundreds 
of years of experience in hi gher education in USA while 
preserving its Saudi identity.  
PMU Guiding Principles and Core Values stemmed from 
respecting Islamic principles while benefiting from international 
best practices.  
PMU is indeed a proud Saudi university with global 
characteris tics, standards and specifications.    
 
Our Goal is 
to prepare 
leaders of 
the 
future...”  
We make 
HISTORY . 
We build 
LEADERS .
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
11 THE FIRST STRATEGIC PLAN 2007 -2011  
 
 
 
 
PMU Strategic Plan for 2007 -2011 was developed and implemented immediately after the Univers ity 
started its operations in September 2006.The Strategic Plan focused on area such as the Completion of 
the physical and technological infrastructures, recruiting excellent students and faculty and building a 
supportive learning environment.  
The Strateg ic Goals of the Plan were as follows:  
 Increase the number of quality students who will make PMU their first choice and enhance 
advising programs to increase retention and reduce time to graduate.  
 The University will provide a distinctive, student -centered undergraduate learning experience 
which will be highly competitive as a result of its intellectual coherence, rigor and engagement 
of students with faculty in the process of inquiry and discovery.  
 Incorporate electronic and communication technology through out the university so that 
teaching, research, outreach activities and student services are current and effective.  
 The University campus acquires and fully supports the utilization of state -of-the-art 
technological resources, including the technical and ad ministrative staff, equipment and 
facilities that support research and scholarship, facilitate innovation in the learning environment 
and enhance administrative processes.  
 Provide a stimulating, supportive and safe environment for staff with a commitment t o service 
and an emphasis on continuous improvement.  
 Enhance the University’s reputation and effectiveness. Establish and develop a research culture 
and infrastructure.  
 The University will expand and diversify its sources of revenue to assure its continued  growth 
in the context of its mission and strategic goals.  
 Complete the physical environment and infrastructure of the campus.  
 Apply quality criteria in all the University functions and procedures and seek accreditation from 
local and international accredi tation bodies.  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
12 THE SECOND STRATEGIC PLAN 2012 -2016  
 
 
 
PMU strategic plan for 2012 -2016 shifted the focus from the initial developmental stages to pursue of 
Excellence. PMU Strategic Plan 2007 -2011 was the prime mover of the university march towards 
realizing PMU vision and fulfilling PMU mission. The university was fully constructed and ready to 
pursue excellence in its activities and to ensure that all activities are in line with its defined 
characteristics.   
A priority for PMU’s in the previous strategi c plan was the desire to achieve excellence thoughtful 
strategic planning, investment in both human and technological resources and rigorous cycles of 
Continuous Improvement. Therefore, PMU focused on the initial NCAAA accreditation process and 
quality ass urance. By emphasizing the role of the deanship of Quality and Accreditation, PMU 
acknowledged the necessity to align itself with accepted regional and international benchmarks, key 
performance indicators and the National Qualifications Framework.   
The Str ategic Goals of the Plan were as follows:  
 Increase the number of quality students who will make PMU their first choice and enhance 
advising programs to increase retention and reduce time to graduate.   
 The University will continue to provide a distinctive, student -centered learning experience to 
its students.   
 The University campus will continue to acquire and fully supports the utilization of state -of-
the-art technological resources that support research and scholarship, facilitate innovation in 
the learnin g environment and enhance administrative processes.   
 Provide a stimulating, supportive and safe environment for faculty and staff with a commitment 
to service and an emphasis on continuous improvement.   
 Continue to enhance the University’s reputation and e ffectiveness and increase its visibility 
locally and internationally.   
 Establish and develop a research culture and infrastructure, and solicit support for research 
projects from local and international businesses.   
 The University will expand and diversify  its sources of revenue to assure its continued growth 
in the context of its mission and strategic goals.   
 Improve and expand the physical plant facility to embrace future PMU expansions.  
 Continue to apply quality criteria in all the University functions a nd procedures and seek 
accreditation from local and international accreditation bodies.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
13 THE T HIRD  STRATEGIC PLAN 2017-2021 
 
 
 
 
This strategic plan is formulated to provide a road map for the 
purse of Excellence in all. PMU 2017 -2021 Strategic Plan feat ures 
seven strategic domains which are focused on continuous quality 
improvements for the university. The strategic plan also 
incorporates the key performance indicators, benchmarks and on -
going quality assurance plans from the previous strategic plan.   
 
In consultation with the Office of the Rector, VRAA, PMU 
administrators, faculty, staff, students, a select number of 
employers, and members of the community participated in the 
planning activity. PMU reaffirms its mission, vision and 
developed he strategic  plan.   
 
The Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) 
was conducted to establish a clear view of the current internal and 
external environment that affect PMU. The results of the SWOT 
analysis, included interviews conducted different groups,  
observations in the internal systems and procedures, existing 
documents, and other factors served as basis for identifying the 
strategic focus areas and goals.   
 
  Excellence in 
Education  
 Excellence in 
Research and 
Innovation  
 Outreach and 
Community 
Engage ment  
 Quality and 
Performance 
Improvement  
 Internationaliza
tion Graduate 
Studies 
Governance 
Infrastructure  
 Revenue 
Diversification/
Business 
Development  
 
  

PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
14 PMU Goals, Objectives, and Initiatives 2017 -2021  
 
 
 
This strategic plan is formulated to provide a roa d map for the purse of Excellence in all activates. PMU 
2017 -2021 Strategic Plan features strategic domains that serves as the goals which are focused on 
continuous quality improvements for the university. The strategic plan also incorporates key 
performan ce indicators, benchmarks and on -going quality assurance plans from the previous strategic 
plan.  
PMU clarifies the definitions of Strategic Goals, Objectives, and Initiatives as follows:  
GOALS:  A goal is a broad primary outcome. A goal is what PMU would like to accomplish. A Goal  
is presented as a broad statement of what we hope to achieve. It is more qualitative than quantitative in 
nature and supported by measurable objectives. Goals are high -level statements of direction , 
aspirational , and they should remain constant until our strategy changes.   
OBJECTIVES:  An objective is a measurable step PMU will take to achieve a Goal. Once the goals 
are defined, the next step is to break them down into objectives. Objectives should be SMART (Specific, 
Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, Time -bound).   
INITIATIVES:  an initiative describes the task that PMU will do to achieve the objective.   
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
15 SWOT ANALYSIS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRENGTHS  
 
 Campus characteristic s, facility, small class size, n ew and attractive buildings  
 The curriculum and the competency based learning   
 Diversity of faculty, staff, and students including Male and female   
 Building Design – Accessibility and Technology   
 Open -door Policy Accessibility Stakeholders involvement   
 Successful graduation rates and Compe tent Graduates   
 Financial Stability Evening Programs   
 Co-curricular activities   
 Positive reputation in the external community   
 Proactive student support (in academic and non -academic)   
 Technology and the Infrastructure   
 Qualified faculty   
 Partnership with other Universities  
 Residential campus development  
 Campus wide involvement in planning accredited programs   
 
WEAKNESSES  
 
 Shortage of Resources (staff and faculty)  
 Highly competitive market for diverse faculty Student preparedness at entrance   
 Limited res ources for faculty and staff development Lack of accountability and follow up 
mechanism   
 High workloads for fac ulty and staff and the ability to hire and retain faculty   
 Coordination among stakeholders and departmental coordination, community outreach   
 Routine maintenance needs to be assured Lack of active alumni   
 More tangible reward for research is needed and inadequate merit -based incentives   
 Weakness in registration processes and student counselling   
 Lack of employee engagement and commitment   
 Varying p erceptions of faculty, staff, and administrators towards work expectation   
 Lack of strong and effective presence in the external community   
 Limited resources for faculty and staff development   
 Insufficient space for expansion (new buildings, labs, etc.)   
 No match between research expectation and support  
 No diversification of revenue   
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
16  
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPPORTUNITIES  
 
 Growth potential (College of Medicine, College of Engineering Technology, Center of 
specialization e.g. comparative law, environmental studies)   
 Expan ding college progra ms and graduate degree programs  
 Research centers and centers of excellence and development of research park   
 Diversity of the Region (students – industry)   
 Diversification of funding   
 Supply exceeds the demand – able to se lect the best students’ intakes  
 Growing demand on graduates and Employability of Saudi female   
 Foreign exchange program and Summer opportunities for local and international   
 Exposure to international experience  
 Academically and culturally prepare for international stu dies  
 Partnership with External communi ty and University relationships  
 More external cooperation with external bodies at department level   
 Research colla boration within each department  
 Extend off -campus training for the purpose of generating revenues   
 Employment opportunity for returning Saudi Post graduate students   
 Soft-copies of textbook available through publisher   
 
THREATS  
 
 Competition from universities in Eastern Province and opening new universities   
 Potential competitors from recogn ized internatio nal universities  
 Withdrawal of scholarship or external  financial support   
 Economic instability, Budget crisis and Oil prices   
 New government regulations for expats and movement of the faculty from one university to 
another   
 Political regional instability  
 Mishandled Saudization process   
 Quality of incoming students and falling academic standards due to larg e number of unprepared 
students  
 Negative public perception  
 Preparedness for emergencies such as sandstorm, war, communication failure   
 Strict enforcem ent of NCAAA regulations competes with international accrediting agencies   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
17  
VISION  
 
 
PMU vision is to be a higher education institution having a transformative 
impact on society through sustainable innovation in education, research, and 
creativity .  
 
MISSION  
 
 
PMU is committed to sustaining world -class excellence in education, research and service by advancing 
the state of discovery, development, and application of knowledge.  We prepare our graduates for 
professional careers by offering the highest quali ty academic programs in a learning environment that 
fosters research and nourishes creativity. We equip our students with competencies and lifelong learning 
skills that help them become successful and responsible leaders in their communities. Our multicult ural 
diverse and inclusive communities, our global connectedness and engagements, and our 21st futuristic 
outlook enrich our university environment .  
 
VALUES  
 
 
Dedication:  A reflection of our unique work principles and our 
commitment to quality.   
Sustainab ility:  Our ability to maintain institutional capabilities in 
educational, social, environmental, and financial performance.   
Impact:  To solve critical issues faced by national and international 
communities .  
Creativity:  To be innovative by providing origin al ideas and knowledge.  
Inclusive Community:  To show respect for ethics, cultural and 
religious diversity, and freedom of thought .  
Citizenry:  Maintaining strong commitments to local, national, and global 
communities .  
Futuristic Outlook:  To participate in  shaping the future: its techniques, 
its resources, societies, and economics.  
Compassion:  To deal with others empathetically and transcend self -
interest .  
 
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
18 EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION  
 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN 
EDUCATION  
Objective 1: Promote  and support teaching excellence in all academic units.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Ensuring that all academic programs conduct regular assessment processes that produce full 
information and provide feedback to teachers that enable them  to improve their teaching 
continually.   
 Establishing a University Assessment Committee that collects and review assessment reports 
from academic programs and provide feedback to all concerned University Departments and 
assist academic programs to develop and improve plans for assessing student learning.   
 Providing training to faculty on latest pedagogies and best practice for effective teaching.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of academic programs conducting assessments and submit results to the University 
Assessment Commit tee.  
 
Objective 2: Provide enriching learning experience inside and outside the 
classroom.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Encouraging faculty to use new pedagogies and new technologies, taking into consideration the 
different pedagogies t hat are appropriate for different academic pro -grams.   
 Promoting and support learning activities beyond the classroom that may include site visits, 
hosting guest Speakers, work -shops and student seminars.   
 Planning, designing and implementing Campus Life C o-curricular activities that will enrich the 
learning experience of student and help them practice and master the University Targeted 
Competencies.   
 
KPIs  
 Percentage of teaching staff participating in professional development activities during the past 
year.  
 Number of learning activities beyond the classroom.   
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
19  
 
 
 
 
Objective 3: Develop cultural awareness of students to engage with the 
global society.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Providing international opportunities for students such as internships and summer work 
experiences with an educational component.   
 Including internalization within the curriculum by using globally connected class -rooms. 
Faculty should use in teaching examples from different cultures, encourage students to refle ct 
upon cultural similarities and differences and develop their ability to tolerate differences with 
others from different backgrounds.   
 Creating inter -university collaboration with international universities to foster student 
exchange.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of st udents that participate in international internships, summer work and student 
exchange programs.   
 Number of faculty dedicated to creating globally connected classroom.   
 
Objective 4: Attract excellent body of students and provide supportive and 
efficient s tudent services .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Enhancing the University enrollment management and redesign the University website to 
attract and enroll excellent students.   
 Ensuring students have access to academic advising and counseling  of high quality.   
 Ensuring that there are sufficient resources for providing satisfactory and efficient services to 
the students.   
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of newly enrolled students with high school examination results of 90% and above. 
Number of students assign ed for each academic advisor.   
 Ratio of students to teaching staff .  
 Percentage of PMU -wide student retention rate.   
 Percentage of students entering programs who successfully complete first year .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
20  
 
 
 
 
Objective 5: Provide a learning environment that sus tains world class 
academic and supportive activities.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Ensuring that the University possesses the latest information technology to support learning 
and teaching.   
 Recruiting and retaining faculty and staff com mitted to and able to deliver excellence in 
teaching and education.   
 Ensuring that appropriate support is available to allow faculty to maximize their potential to 
achieve excellence in teaching.   
 Ensuring Learning Resource Center will be supported to beco me a learning hub providing 
learning environments conducive to study, collaboration and cross -disciplinary interaction.   
 Ensuring that Learning Resource Center will provide increased virtual services to the faculty 
and students and help them finding and us ing scholar resources.  
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of graduating students achieving a GPA of very good and higher.  
 Number and diversity of virtual resources available for students and faculty.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
21 EXCELLENCE IN RESEARCH AND 
INNOVATION  
 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXC ELLENCE IN 
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION  
Objective 1: Increase the number and quality of research production 
(published in peer -reviewed local and international journals, books, 
monographs, international conference proceedings).   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our  objectives by:  
 Focusing further in the faculty recruitment on candidates with a proven track record in research.   
 Leveraging additional research funding from external sources.   
 Providing assistance for new researchers and early careers in the process of p ublications  and 
grant proposal writing.   
 Providing adequate internal seed funding to increase the research productivity of our active 
scholars. Internal grants should also help in the development and sustainability  of research 
groups and research centers.   
 Allowing teaching release time for very active researchers whenever possible to spend the 
needed time on research production.   
 Organizing regular scientific writing workshops  aimed particularly at novice researchers.   
 Providing sufficient funding for conf erence presentation to Faculty in order to create 
opportunities to initiate collaborations and subsequently co -authorship on publications with 
focus on interdisciplinary themes (thus enhancing productivity).   
 
KPIs  
 Number of refereed publications per full time equivalent member of teaching staff.   
 Proportion of full time member of teaching staff with at least one refereed publication.  
 Number of papers or reports presented at academic confe rences per full time equivalent 
members of teaching staff.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
22  
 
 
 
 
Objective 2: Build progressively adequate research environment and 
infrastructure to allow PMU scholars to be more productive in research.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Providing of adequate research infrastructure that will enable research ers to pursue research 
activities at the high level required to become a research -intensive university. This includes the 
provision of laboratory space, support staff, statistical software for quantitative and qualitative 
research methods, etc.   
 Providing funding for researchers to purchase the required equipment and related consumable 
materials.  
 Providing access/subscription to online key resources such as the Thomson Reuters Web of 
Science, SDL,  and membership with Scientific Societies.   
 
KPIs  
 Proportion  of total operating funds spent on research.    
 
Objective 3: Instill and nurture a strong research culture among non -
academic departments to be facilitators and motivators for researchers.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Ensuring that the o ffice of the Deanship of Research Development is adequately staffed to 
respond to the needs of researchers.   
 Sharing research achievements with non -academic departments through, for example, the 
creation of research newsletter to these departments.   
 Ensuri ng that non -academic departments such as Human Resources, Finance, IT, and library 
Departments have the right resources and to provide excellent support services to researchers.   
 Where possible, involving non -academic staff members to research -related even ts to 
understand the importance of research for a higher education organization in order to instill a 
culture of support and facilitating the research activities of the researchers.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of web services membership/subscriptions as a proportion to all PMU degree offering 
programs .  
 Number of periodical subscriptions as a proportion to all PMU degree offering programs.   
 Number of books held in PMU library as a proportion of the number of PMU students.   
 Total annual expenditure in the library as a pro portion to the number of PMU full -time students .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
23  
 
 
Objective 4: Implement progressively the institutional research agenda of 
PMU and update in every three years in order to help solving the industry 
and societal eminent and persistent problems of the k ingdom in alignment 
with the Saudi Vision’s 2030.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Providing applied real -life hands -on experiences through networking with the local, regional, 
and international industry for researchers (faculty and students ).  
 Providing technical services and support to local industry and manufacturing businesses.   
 Developing on -campus consultation to the industry to increase partnership with campus units 
and external organizations.   
 Assisting in developing sustainable long -term partnerships with business and government, to 
enhance collaborative and cross disciplinary research.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of papers produced by PMU researchers in the areas of PMU Institutional Research.   
 Number of time the PMU Institutional Research Agenda is changed/adjusted to the local and 
international force such as the Saudi Vision 2030 in KSA and the need of tolerance and peace 
skills development imposed by the international agenda against radicalization.   
 
Objective 5: Make PMU an institution of choic e by attracting and retaining 
local and international scholars who are leaders in their respective field 
(including postdoctoral fellows, scholars on sabbatical, Fulbright awardees, 
and retired scholars) to help supporting and mentoring junior PMU 
research ers and initiate big research projects.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Providing competitive salaries for scholars in order to attract and retain the best researchers in 
each field. Offer a market premium for exceptional researchers. Devel op efficient ways and 
means to attract and retain research talents in areas of the institutional research agenda of PMU.   
 Encouraging faculty to establish collaborative partnerships with researchers outside of the 
KSA.   
 Ensuring that the research budget ma kes provision for competitive postdoctoral and sabbatical 
fellowship awards to attract the most promising postdoctoral and sabbatical candidates from 
other parts of the world.    
 
KPIs  
 Percentage of international faculty with a proven research track record recruited.   
 
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
24  
 
 
 
Objective 6: Recognize and communicate the successes of PMU researchers 
internally and externally.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Recognizing the best researchers through the Best Researcher Awards in different categories,  
e.g. best early -career researchers, most -productive researcher, best research group etc.   
 Establishing a regular newsletter which, among other things, will be aimed at highlighting the 
activities and achievements of PMU researchers, both individuals and/o r research groups.   
 Highlighting the research on PMU Web site as an icon for promoting and showcasing research 
successes both within the University and externally for PMU scholars.   
 Organizing and encourage Faculty participation in local, regional, nationa l, international 
seminars and workshops and conferences to enhance PMU visibility and credibility both inside 
and outside the Kingdom.   
 Building a relationship with local media to communicate the work of PMU to the community.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of recognized be st researchers through the Best Researcher Awards.   
 Number of papers or reports presented at academic conferences per full time equivalent 
members of teaching staff.   
 
Objective 7: Identify and encourage progressively external funding and the 
financial aut onomy of researchers.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Encouraging fund -raising efforts through collaborative research proposals targeting local and 
international funding organizations and businesses.   
 Encouraging and support Faculty in iden tifying external sources of funding to supplement 
funding  from the University, thus ensuring their financial autonomy.   
 Assisting faculty with the process of writing proposals for funding by, among other things, 
organizing proposal writing workshops, marke ting the capabilities of PMU Researchers among 
the funding agencies, and incentivize PMU Researchers for networking.    
 
KPIs  
 Research income from external sources as a proportion of the number of full time teaching staff 
members.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
25  
 
 
 
 
Objective 8: Incre ase in the production of intellectual property, patents, and 
technology commercialization.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Encouraging commercializing of products arising from PMU research, as well as the production 
of patents.   
 Fostering t echnology transfer for regional and national economic and business development.   
 Aiming to establish an Intellectual Property Office for the university by the end of the year 
2021.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of intellectual property, patents, and technology commerciali zation.   
 
Objective 9: Develop a two -tier faculty categories to incentivize the research 
and improve the competitiveness of PMU Researchers.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Identifying thoroughly a precise definitions and clear metrics the  “most active Researchers” at 
PMU.   
 Reducing the teaching load of the active researchers.   
 Increasing the teaching load of the faculty who prefer or choose not to do research.   
 Allowing the promotion system to be based on weight chosen freely of the three components 
of the task by the faculty.   
 Allow the faculty who is doing intensive research with internal or external funding to buy time 
release based on an approval system.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of faculty promoted at PMU.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
26 OUTREACH AND COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT  
 
GOA L 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT   
Objective 1: Foster and sustain the engagement of the University with the 
community and its participation in identifying, addressing and overcoming 
problems and challenges.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achie ve our objectives by:  
 Preparing a catalog describing the University programs and expertise and distribute it among 
organizations in the community surrounding the University.   
 Developing relationships with community leaders and organizations and invite them  to use the 
University expertise in solving problems and overcoming challenges.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of relationships developed with community leaders and organization.   
 
Objective 2: Involve the University’s faculty, students and alumni in 
community engagement .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Encouraging and support community engagement activities involving students and faculty.   
 Strengthening collaboration with the PMU alumni to enrich the community engagement of the 
University.    
 
KPIs  
 Proportio n of faculty and students engaged in community service.    
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
27  
 
 
 
 
 
Objective 3: Develop and implement community outreach units and 
programs that will participate in achieving the goals of the Kingdom 2030 
Vision.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives  by: 
 Developing partnerships with key sectors, including government, economic and service sectors, 
to initiate and support activities that result in sustainability of resources and environmental 
protection.   
 Actively engaging in providing training to prepa re youth to succeed in the globalized 
workplace.   
 Engaging with responsible bodies and government departments in developing the IT 
infrastructure kingdom wide and creating smart cities.   
 Expanding units and outreach programs to enhance the University’s abi lity to assist the 
Kingdom in economic development, job creation, social progress and quality of life.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of community programs provided as a proportion of the number of departments.   
 
Objective 4: Develop a Saudi Vision’s 2030 Implementation Ta skforce to 
meet on a regular basis to recommend changes or addition in the programs, 
curricula, co -curricula, research, training for the community or consulting to 
align PMU role in implementing Saudi Vision’s 2030.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objecti ves by:  
 Developing partnerships with key sectors, including government, economic and service sectors, 
to initiate and support activities that result in sustainability of resources and environmental 
protection.   
 Actively engaging in providing training to pr epare youth to succeed in the globalized 
workplace.   
 Engaging with responsible bodies and government departments in developing the IT 
infrastructure kingdom wide and creating smart cities.   
 Expanding units and outreach programs to enhance the University’s ability to assist the 
Kingdom in economic development, job creation, social progress and quality of life.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of relationships developed with community leaders and organization.   
 
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
28  
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE 
IMPROVEMENT  
 
GOAL 1: MAINTAIN FULL COMPLI ANCE WITH THE SAUDI 
ARABIA QUALIFICATION FRAMEWORK  
Objective 1: Maintain Institutional Accreditation and Compliance with the 
National Commission for Academic Assessment and Accreditation 
(NCAAA) by Mandating Continuous Quality Improvement .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Ensure All Programs are accredited by the National Commission for Academic Assessment and 
Accreditation (NCAAA) .  
 Establishing an Institutional Assessment and Evaluation committee.   
 Spreading the culture of quality improvem ent by providing related information and training 
faculty and staff on quality requirements.   
 Recruiting staff specialized in quality issues and training to help in enhancing quality on the 
male and female campuses.   
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of programs in which t here was independent verification of standards of student 
achievement by  people external to the institution.   
 Proportion of courses in which students evaluation were done.  
 Number of NCAAA Accredited programs.   
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
29  
GOAL 2: ENSURE  INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION  OF 
PMU AND ALL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS   
Objective 2: Ensure All Programs are accredited by recognized international 
accreditation bodies.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Applying for ABET accreditation for all programs at the College of Engineer ing.  
 Applying for ABET accreditation for all programs at the College of Computer Engineering & 
Science.  
 Ensure all programs at the College of Business Administration are accredited by AACSB.   
 Accrediting the Law program from an international Accreditatio n Agency to ensure global 
recognition.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of accredited programs from international accrediting body .  
 
Objective 3: Increase PMU rank to reach the first ten universities in ranking 
in Saudi Arabia.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by : 
 Applying for QS Institutional Ranking .  
 Increasing our Web impact by providing a multilingual information on www.pmu.edu.sa   
 Increasing our WeboMetrics rank .  
 
KPIs  
 PMU QS rank reaching the top 50 universities in the  Arab World.  
 PMU WeboMetrics rank reaching the top 25 universities in the Saudi Arabia.    
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
30 INTERNATIONALIZATION  
 
GOAL 1: PURSUE AND ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN 
EDUCATION  
Objective 1: Enhance the profile of Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University 
and introduce it to the international community.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Redesigning the PMU website to better introduce PMU to the international community.   
 Increasing the participation of Faculty in international conferences.   
 Producing and dissemina te publications that make PMU known and recognized by the 
international community of academics and international organizations.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of faculty and staff participating in international conferences.   
 
Objective 2: Enhance the international network and active participation of 
PMU in the internal areas in a sustainable way.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Developing and enhance international partnerships and networks.   
 Increasing contact with the global intellectual community through g uest speakers to deliver 
speeches about issues that are of international concern.   
 Providing scholarships to attract student from Arab and developing countries .  
 Supporting collaborative research that involves PMU faculty and faculty from international 
universities.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of active partnerships.  
 Number of students from Arab and developing countries.   
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
31  
 
 
 
 
Objective 3: Engage in dialogue series and roundtable series to discuss and 
contribute in finding solutions for problems of international conce rn and 
play the role of “influencing the influencers” by involving the international 
organizations in the proposed solutions.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Organizing workshops, seminars, symposia and conferences that address issues and p roblems 
of international concern such as peace, tolerance, cultural diversity, sustainability, 
environmental protection and eradication of poverty.   
 Establishing endowed chairs that focus on problems of international concern.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of workshops, se minars, symposia and conferences organized.   
 
Objective 4: PMU is to become a global gateway connecting the academic 
communities in the Arab Gulf Countries with its counterparts in other 
countries around the world about issues of global concerns.   
INITIATI VES 
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Holding workshops involving academicians from the Arab Gulf Countries and from other 
countries of the world.   
 Providing opportunities for faculty from international universities to spend their sabbatical 
leaves at PMU .  
 
KPIs  
 Number of workshops organized.  
 Number of visiting faculty.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
32  
 
 
 
 
Objective 5: Involve students in the student dialogue and student training 
clubs about international grand challenges the world is facing.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objecti ves by:  
 Establishing student clubs to develop series of dialogues about global challenges. Involving 
faculty in student’s dialogues.   
 Utilizing the PMU memberships in the United Nations Academic Impact (UNAI) to foster 
student activities in the area of glo bal issues.    
 
KPIs  
 Number of activities related to dialogue about global challenges.   
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
33  
GRADUATE STUDIES  
 
Objective 1: Develop new graduate programs that are relevant to the KSA 
workplace needs. The programs have to be designed in full alignment with 
the Saudi Vision 2030.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Expanding the number of postgraduate programs in different fields as well as in cross -
disciplinary and make efficient use of synergies among the existing programs. The programs to 
be devel oped need to be fully aligned with the Saudi Vision 2030.   
 Developing new postgraduate programs both at disciplinary and inter -disciplinary levels by 
partnering with well -recognized international universities (dual and joint degrees are targeted).   
 Develop ing customized graduate education to Government agencies and corporate 
communities also in alignment with the Saudi Vision 2030. Hybrid mode of teaching would be 
considered.   
 Paving the way and supporting the development of doctoral programs in business 
administration (DBA) and doctorate program in education (Ed. D).   
 Initiating Postgraduate Certificates to attract more students (these programs can eventually 
result in earning a master degree by cumulating three (3) Postgraduate Certificates.   
 
KPIs  
 The num ber of graduate programs operating at PMU.   
 
Objective 2: Increase the quantity and quality of postgraduate students.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Developing aggressive marketing strategies and campaigns to increase substantially the num ber 
of applications, admissions, and growth in yield of postgraduate students .  
 Increasing the growth in number of enrolled graduate students as well as the growth of the 
retention rate.  
 Increasing the number of applications from the PMU’s graduated stude nts.   
 
KPIs  
 Number of students enrolled in post -graduate programs as a proportion to the total number of 
students .  
 Percentage of PMU undergraduate students continuing to post -graduate degrees .  
 Students overall rating on the quality of their courses.   
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
34  
 
 
 
Objective 3: Improve the quality of service to the postgraduate students .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Coordinating the postgraduate services under one roof/destination in order to improve the 
graduate student satisfaction with a be tter graduate student relationship management 
(“Postgraduate Welcome Center” with executive set -up and special treatment with matured 
candidates).   
 Developing the role and responsibilities of a new centralized structure for managing the 
graduate studies at  PMU (e.g. Advisory Board and University Graduate Studies Council, etc.).  
 Developing, updating, and upgrading the postgraduate policies and procedures in compliance 
with the Ministry requirements.   
 Producing and publishing all the informa tion related to po stgraduate programs in a postgraduate 
catalogue.   
 Updating continuously the webpage of PMU regarding the postgraduate programs. 
Improvement of graduate student satisfaction.   
 Integration of research and teaching and more exposure of postgraduate students t o the research 
process.  
 Developmenting and centralizationing of information and statistics related to the graduate 
programs.   
 
KPIs  
 The overall satisfaction of graduate student .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
35 GOVERNANCE  
 
GOAL 1: MAINTAIN A UNIVERSITY GOVERNING BODY 
THAT OPERATES EFF ECTIVELY IN THE INTERESTS OF 
THE INSTITUTION AS A WHOLE AND THE COMMUNITIES IT 
SERVES AND IT IS REGULARLY ASSESSED AND 
EVALUATED  
Objective 1: Clearly define and align roles and responsibilities for effective 
and efficient operations of the university.   
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Ensuring that the responsibilities of adminis trators are clearly defined in position descriptions .  
 Ensuring that delegations of responsibility with clear guidelines setting out the scope and limits 
of responsibi lity, allowing for creativity and innovation within policy guidelines, and with 
clearly defined mechanisms for accountability .  
 Increa sing the involvement of the female representations in all institutional planning and 
governance to allow effective and ong oing communication .  
 Ensuring the University Assessment Committee should evaluates the annual report for each 
department and provide recommendation for improvement .  
 Establish an institutional research office to  provide statistical data on the performance .  
 
KPIs  
 Stakeholder evaluation of the Policy Handbook, including administrative flow chart and job  
responsibilities.  
 Proportion of teaching staff leaving the institution for reasons other than age retirement .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
36  
 
GOAL 2: FOSTER A UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE SY STEM  
THAT INSTILLS FLEXIBILITY, TRANSPARENCY, 
ACCOUNTABILITY, SHARED RESPONSIBILITY, AND A 
POSITIVE ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE  
Objective 2: Sustain a university -wide collaborative effort providing a 
forum for discussion of all issues .  
INITIATIVES  
We will ach ieve our objectives by:  
 Ensuring that the university governance committees and councils are active and members are 
appointed on annual basis.   
 Adopt ing an organizational climate in which the contribution of individuals is recognized and 
valued.   
 Developing  channel of communication regarding all matters related to education, research, 
community services and accreditation.   
 
KPIs  
 Stakeholder evaluation of the Policy Handbook, including administrative flow chart and job  
responsibilities.  
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
37  
 
GOAL 3: FOSTER A  UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE SYSTEM 
THAT INSTILLS FLEXIBILITY, TRANSPARENCY, 
ACCOUNTABILIT Y, SHARED RESPONSIBILITY, AND A 
POSITIVE ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE  
Objective 3: Clearly established policies and regulations that provide a 
framework for management, decisio n making, and accountability at all 
levels in the university .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Progressively implement decentralized decision making for the regular tasks.   
 Establishing an authority matrix that define the scope of authority for all managers and 
administrators.   
 Progressively delegating the budgeting authority from senior management to middle 
management with a clean monitoring system.   
 
KPIs  
 Stakeholder evaluation of the Policy Handbook, including administrative flow chart and  job 
responsibilities.   
 
Objective 4: Ensure that established statements of responsibilities, and 
guidelines are widely known and understood by faculty, staff and students.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Updating the p olicy handbooks to re flect cur rent changes and make them available to all 
stakeholders.   
 Expanding the orientation sessions for faculty, staff, and students to explain the handbooks .  
 
KPIs  
 Stakeholder evaluation of the Policy Handbook, including administrative flow chart and job 
responsibilities.  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
38  
 
 
Objective 5: Establish a Strategic Plan Governance Committee to follow up 
and monitor the implementation of all INITIATIVES for the 
accomplishment of the goals of these strategies which will work under a 
strict process for imple mentation and monitoring the implementation of the 
Strategic Plan over the years .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Establishing the committee.   
 Submits regular reports to the University management.   
 Suggesting  remedial  action  whenever necess ary.  
 
KPIs  
 Number of reports submitted by the Strategic Plan Governance Committee to PMU 
management .  
 
Objective 6: Establish a “Document Control Unit” to avoid any breakdown 
in the workflows, monitors more efficiently the decisions taken by the top 
manag ement, and holds each stakeholder accountable for his due activities .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Developing the process boundaries (inputs, outputs, activities) for each academic and 
nonacademic unit at PMU.   
 Having a plan to transcrib e the processes and procedures by putting the steps into a flowcharting 
and the final step should be to host them in    a particular unit. The “Document Control” involves 
the storage, access, indexing, retrieval, distribution, de letion, and audit all the d ocuments of the 
organization. Electronic or physical documents need to be secured against any abuse and the 
Document Controllers often use electronic document management systems to do so.   
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of records under the control of the document contr ol unit .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
39 UNIVERSITY INFRASTRUCTURE  
 
 
Objective 1: Ensure quality and advocacy in the physical infrastructure.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 All Colleges will have adequate classrooms and laboratories to accommodate students as per 
the specified students/faculty ratio.   
 The car parking area on the male campus will be increased to accommodate all faculty, staff 
and students’ cars.   
 New buildings wi ll be built on the male and fe male campuses to accommodate the offices of 
staff of all servi ce departments and offices for students’ clubs and campus life activities.  
 Add two building facilities that accommodate 50 -70 students for holding seminars, work - 
shops, etc.   
 Add 2 facilities  that accommodate 50 to 70 par ticipants for seminars, workshops,  roundtables 
and big class .  
 
KPIs  
 Average overall rating of adequacy of facilities and equipment in a survey of teaching staff .  
 
Objective 2: Enhance the IT infrastructure to adopt best practices in 
interaction and communicating with its students and fac ulty throughout the 
entire academic lifecycle: i.e. from prospective applicants.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Upgrading Banner to support the entire academic lifecycle.   
 Implementing workflow driven processes in Banner and EBS.   
 Encourag ing and support collaboration and par ticipation using mobile devices .  
 
KPIs  
 Annual expenditure on IT per student.   
 Number of accessible computer terminals per student.  Internet bandwidth per student .  
 
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
40  
 
 
Objective 1: Build necessary space for business incubator and research 
centers / endowed chairs / research groups.  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Building a state of the art Student Support center .  
 Expanding the office space for research centers and student research activities .  
 
KPIs  
 Number of offices dedicated to the business incubator, research centers, endowed chairs and 
research groups .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
41 REVENUE DIVERSIFICATION AND 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT  
 
GOAL 1: DIVERSIFY THE REVENUE SOURCES AND 
EXPAND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT  
Objective 1: Diversify t he revenue sources of the University .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Creating business incubators.   
 Establishing technology transfer centers.   
 Establish ing a science park and innovation center.   
 Expanding industry collaboration to market t he University research.   
 Establishi ng a University consultative company to market the knowledge and expertise of the 
faculty and engage them in giving consultation to businesses and industries.   
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of revenue other than tuition fees .  
 
Object ive 2: Expand the University business .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Creating assets such as buildings and commercial projects for generating revenue (business 
center for rent).   
 Establishing a PMU campus that serves other regions in the Kingdom that are in need of quality 
higher education.   
 Establishing Study Centers on the campus of internationa l strategic University partners .  
 
KPIs  
 Number of PMU tangible and intangible assets .  
  
PRINCE MOHAMMAD BIN FAHD UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2017 -2021   
42 ENDOWMENTS  
 
 
Objective 1: Increase and diversify the rev enue sources and commercial 
assets of PMU to ensure sustainable income for the operation of the 
University .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Creating assets such as buildings and commercial projects for generating revenue (business 
center fo r rent).   
 Investing in high -liquidity asset such as stocks tha t pay dividend on regular basis .  
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of revenue from sources other than tuition fees .  
 
Objective 2: Create a portfolio of businesses investments that sustain 
income -generation for  the operation of PMU .  
INITIATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Developing a plan for creating PMU -owned businesses .  
 
KPIs  
 Number of businesses owned by PMU for generation income .  
 
Objective 3: Develop and implement fund raising activities.  
INITI ATIVES  
We will achieve our objectives by:  
 Increasing fund raising activities for projects that  contribute to humanitarian needs.  
 Increasing scholarships fund rais ing activities for our students.  
 
KPIs  
 Proportion of revenue from sources other than tuition fees.  
 
