i Princeton University Strategic Framework 
January 30, 2016
ii Princeton University Strategic Framework 
January 30, 2016
CONTENTS 
Introduction 1 
Princeton ’s mission 1 
Mission statement 2 
The vitality of Princeton’s liberal arts mission 3 
Trends affecting Princeton’s future  4 
Resources 5 
The University’s financial model  5 
Funding new initiatives 6 
The endowment spending policy 7 
Revisions to the spending policy 8 
Strategic priorities 9 
Supporting excellence in the University’s core mission  9 
Faculty quality 10 
Diversity and  inclusivity 11 
Residential life 11 
Undergraduate financial aid 12 
The role and size of the Graduate School 12 
The physical campus 13 
Meeting Princeton’s responsibilities for leadership  14 
Expanding the undergraduate student body 14 
Admissions philosophy and socioeconomic diversity 15 
Reinforcing Princeton’s commitment to service  15 
Opportunities for academic leadership 16 
Arts and humanities 16 
World affairs and cultures 17 
Environmental studies 17 
Leadership in higher education 17 
Responding to technology’s impact  18 
Investing in engineering and information science 18 
Technology’s impact on research and teaching  19 
Cultivating networks,  partnerships, and entrepreneurship 19 
Applying the strategic framework to proposals 20 
Standards for evaluating success 22 
Conclusion:  a liberal arts university for the 21st century 23 
1 Introduction  
Princeton University is one of the world’s great teaching and research institutions, 
with an extraordinary capacity to educate people who will contribute to society and 
develop knowledge that will make a difference to the world.  The Univers ity’s 
exceptional capabilities and resources oblige Princeton to make wise decisions about the 
challenges that confront it and the opportunities available to it.  This strategic framework 
was crafted with that responsibility in mind. 
The purpose of this flexible, revisable framework is to guide important choices by 
the University’s trustees , administration, and faculty.   It identifies key goals, trends, and 
constraints, and it describes major priorities.  It articulates standards and questions 
against which to judge proposals for new programs or capital investments, but it does not 
contain a comprehensive list of projects to be undertaken.  The plan’s objective is not to 
specify all of the University’s future initiatives, but to create a planning framework for 
determining them and for understanding the trade-offs among them. 
This framework reflects two years of discussion within the Board of Trustees and 
throughout the campus.  The board began its discussions in January 2014.  Various 
campus task forces, listed in Appendix One, have met during this period, and several 
continue to meet.  The b oard has met with representatives of many task forces, and it has 
considered preliminary repor ts from them while preparing this plan.  It has not, however, 
attempted to determine which task force recommendations should be adopted.  The task 
force recommendations are part of a larger campus conversation, and the University 
administration continues to collect and review feedback about them.  Guided by this 
framework, the administration will determine how the task forces’ recommendations 
might evolve into proposals for projects, some of which could be implemented by 
administrative or faculty action, and some of which would come to the b oard for 
evaluation pursuant to this strategic framework.  Not all task force recommendations will 
be pursued, and some that are deemed attractive will nevertheless be implemented only if 
sufficient philanthropic support is available to pay for them.  The administration may also 
convene additional task forces in the future as new opportunities or challenges arise, and 
recommendations from those task forces would be assessed through a similar process. 
The Board of Trustees and the administration will annually review the 
University’s progress toward the goals articulated in this plan.  The b oard may amend the 
plan as circumstances require, and it will conduct quadrennial reviews to update and 
revise the plan so that it remains a useful guide for decision-making. 
Princeton’s Mission  
Most modern universities are complex enterprises composed of multiple schools 
and subparts with varying goals and characteristics.   Princeton is an exception to this 
pattern; it is a cohesive institution with a shared and intensely felt sense of mission.   
People often characterize Princeton’s distinctiveness by pointing out the University’s 
deep commitment to undergraduate teaching and the absence of large professiona l 
2 schools.  Princeton certainly takes pride in combining the best aspects of a great research 
university and an outstanding liberal arts college, but its singular mission is both 
broader —encompassing a graduate program of rare quality —and deeper than that 
description would suggest. 
Mission statement 
The Board of Trustees discussed the University’s mission at multiple points 
during its strategic planning process.  The b oard had two goals during these discussions:  
to identify the defining features of the University and to determine what commitments 
should guide the University as it planned for the future.  On September 26, 2015, the 
Trustees approved the following mission statement for the University: 
Princeton University advances learning through scholarship, research, and 
teaching of unsurpassed quality, with an emphasis on undergraduate and 
doctoral education that is distinctive among the world’s great universities, and 
with a pervasive commitment to serve the nation and the world.  
The University’s defining characteristics and aspirations include:  
 a focus on the arts and humanities, the social sciences, the natural
sciences, and engineering, with world-class excellence across all of
its departments;
 a commitment to innovation, free inquiry, and the discovery of new
knowledge and new ideas, coupled with a commitment to preserve and
transmit the intellectual, artistic, and cultural heritage of the past;
 a faculty of world-class scholars who are engaged with and accessible to
students and devoted to the thorough integration of teaching and research;
 a focus on undergraduate education that is unique for a major research
university, with a program of liberal arts that simultaneously prepares
students for meaningful lives and careers, broadens their outlooks, and
helps form their characters and values;
 a graduate school that is unusual in its emphasis on doctoral education,
while also offering high quality masters programs in selected areas;
 a human scale that nurtures a strong sense of community, invites
high levels of engagement, and fosters personal communication;
 exceptional student aid programs at the undergraduate and graduate level
that ensure Princeton is affordable to all;
a commitment to welcome, support, and engage students, faculty, and 
staff with a broad range of backgrounds and experiences, and to 
3 encourage all members of the University community to learn from the 
robust expression of diverse perspectives; 
 a vibrant and immersive residential experience on a campus with a
distinctive sense of place that promotes interaction, reflection, and
lifelong attachment;
 a commitment to prepare students for lives of service, civic engagement,
and ethical leadership; and
 an intensely engaged and generously supportive alumni community.
The elements of this statement will be immediately recognizable to anyone 
familiar with Princeton.  They refl ect the b oard’s  judgment that Princeton’s distinctive 
constitution and ethos remain powerfully vibran t in the second decade of the 21st century.
Certainly the University’s quality is exceptional.  Princeton’s faculty, its research, and  its 
teaching programs command nearly universal respect.  All of t he University’s 
departments are highly ranked, its faculty members compete successfully for research 
funding and scholarly honors, and its undergraduate and graduate programs are among 
the most selective and sought after in the world .  Princeton’s faculty and students 
continue to produce ideas and discoveries that address urgent problems and expand 
human understanding. 
The vitality of Princeton’s liberal arts mission 
The board is fully aware of public anxiety about the value of liberal arts degrees 
and speculation about whether online alternatives will diminish the need for 
undergraduate residential education.  The board noted, however, that even if one were to 
view the benefits of Princeton undergraduate degrees in purely economic terms, there is 
powerful evidence of their value.  The economic returns to a college education in general, 
and to a Princeton education in particular, are superb and far outpace those generated by 
most investments.  Employers and graduate schools eagerly recruit Princeton’s students, 
and alumni consistently report that their Princeton education prepared them well for life 
after Princeton.  Not surprisingly, the demand for admission to Princeton is now greater 
than ever. 
This economic evidence is important, but the b oard believes that Princeton’s goals 
for both its teaching and its research go beyond what is measurable by dollars or other 
economic metrics.  A Princeton education should shape the whole person; the 
University’s research should enhance not only the productivity but also the quality and 
humanity of our nation and our world.  Princeton aims to foster civic engagement and 
ethical leadership, and to be a place where the spirit soars —a place where scholars open 
new frontiers in human understanding, and where students and faculty pursue the highest 
levels of excellence in all of the many activities represented on campus. 
Progress toward these ambitious goals is not easily measured or assessed.  Some 
evidence is available in the judgments that alumni make about the role that Princeton 
4 played in their lives.  Those judgmen ts are overwhelmingly positive:  the vast majority of 
Princeton’s alumni— from the newest graduates to the Old Guard —are enthusiastic 
about, grateful for, and loyal to their alma mater.  Leaders across a diverse range of fields 
and perspectives credit their Princeton education with a formative role in their 
development. 
These diver se forms of evidence helped the board to conclude that Princeton 
University’s distinctive and long -standing mission— as a residential research university 
committed to an expansive vision of the liberal arts that encompasses engineering —is 
robust, valuable, and important to the world.  Equally important to that conclusion were 
some basic observations about why high-quality research and liberal arts education were 
essential to meeting the challenges of the last century and the ones that lie ahead.  At a 
time when the world often focuses on short-term issues and seeks immediate solutions, 
Princeton enables scholars and students to pursue long-term goals. It brings talented 
individuals together for interactions both deliberate and serendipitous, and it gives those 
individuals the freedom and the support they need to pursue a dazzling range of questions 
and projects.  Princeton thereby catalyzes learning, creativity, innovation, and 
collaboration.  The benefits of this activity may take years or even decades to blossom 
fully;  they can help society to address not only the problems we know today, but also 
future concerns that we cannot yet identify or even imagine.  
Trends affecting Princeton’s future  
To remain vital and vibrant, Princeton must both sustain its core strengths and 
also refine the execution of its mission in light of important trends, opportunities, and 
challenges.  The b oard identified two trends of particular importance to the University.  
The first is the growing stratification of American higher education.  Public support for 
colleges and universities has declined at both the state and federal levels, and resource 
gaps among institutions have expanded.  Princeton’s exceptional capacities are therefore 
increasingly rare.  With those rare capacities comes a special responsibility to strive for 
the highest levels of quality in research and education and for significant and lasting 
impact in pursuing its mission of service to the nation and the world.  
The second trend is that  technology —especially but not exclusively information 
technology —is reshaping fields of research, forms of pedagogy, the economy, the 
organization of society, and the challenges for which we must prepare our students.  
Technology is creating new forms of teaching and altering research techniques in every 
field.  It is also changing the ways that students and faculty connect with one another and 
opening up new avenues for their ideas to have impact in the world.  These developments 
make the residential liberal arts university all the more relevant and important:  they 
generate new questions, for example, about the relationship among human values, social 
organization, and technological power, and they promise to leverage the collaborations 
nurtured on college campuses.  Because it has an outstanding School of Engineering and 
Applied Science that shares fully in the University’s liberal arts mission, Princeton is well 
positioned to respond to these challenges.  The University should act strategically to seize 
the opportunities created by technological advancement.  
 5  
Resources  
 
 High -quality education and research are expensive.  To execute its mission 
successfully, Princeton must have the resources needed to attract  talented faculty 
members  who are leaders in their fields and students from a broad range of backgrounds 
and circumstance s, and enable them to develop and use their abilities  fully .  The 
University must , for example,  be able to grow its financial aid budget to ensure that every 
student it admits can afford to attend , while it also must be able to increas e research and 
schola rly expenditures to ensure that faculty members have access to the equipment and 
archives that their work requires.  Fortunately, Princeton  is in excellent financial health. 
Its financial strength results first and foremost from the longstanding generosity  of its 
alumni and friends whose giving has supported the University’s teaching and research 
mission throughout its history and continues to do so today.  Wise stewardship of the 
University’s endowment and other resources has multiplied the impact of those  gifts and 
ensured that new generations of faculty and students continue to benefit from past 
philanthropy.  The extraordinary scholarship of Princeton  faculty members ha s attracted  
critical support  from outside sources .  Princeton has also made judicious decisions about 
expenditures and new investments :  it has been willing to make  bold new commitments to 
advance its distinctive mission —as, for example, when in 2001 Princeton  became the 
first leading university to meet the full financial need of all admitt ed students , including 
international students, through grants that did not require students to take out loans —but 
in launching new initiatives  it has always been careful not to dilute the support that it 
needs to provide for its core programs and values.  
 
The University’s financial model  
 
 Over recent decades, generous philanthropy, exceptional endowment stewardship, 
and judicious expenditure have combined to change fundamentally the financial model of 
the University.  In the 1980s, tuition and fees were th e largest source of general funds 
revenue to the University.  Endowment payout provided only about 14 percent  of the 
University’s overall operating revenue in 1985 .  By c ontrast, in 2016 endowment payout 
account s for 47 percent  of the University’s revenue while gross tuition and fees provide 
only 19 percent  (this number includes tuition and fees paid by the University  to itself  as 
part of its financial aid program; net tuition is an even lower percentage of the 
University’s total income) . 
 
The University has drawn upon its endowment to strengthen and expand its 
financial aid program for undergraduates and to guarantee five years of support to 
doctoral students.   Affordability has become a signature commitment of the University at 
both its un dergraduate and graduate levels.  The board believes it is fair and appropriate 
to reflect justified cost increases in the University’s  stated tuition prices, and it is 
important that the University maintain and enhance its extraordinary financial aid 
program to ensure that a Princeton education remains affordable to every student whom 
the University admits .  Princeton has pursued this goal rigorously and effectively.  The 
University regularly appears at or near the top of national listings of colleges and 
 6 universities that are “most affordable,” that provide the “best value,” and whose students 
graduate with the least debt.  Because of Princeton’s  exceptional financial aid program, 
the net tuition price for attending the University  has declined over the pas t fifteen years if 
measured in inflation -adjusted dollars.  
 
 The result  of these changes  has been a transition from a tuition -driven financial 
model to one that is principally endowment -driven.  Princeton is fortunate to have a very 
substantial endowment,  but an endowment -driven model has i ts own risks and 
limitations.  Princeton draws heavily upon its endowment every year, and it must use 
endowm ent payout to support current programs  as well as possible new initiatives and 
capital projects .  Downturns in world financial markets may therefore compel the 
University to cut budgets  substantially  and curtail programs  or capital projects  (as 
happened during the 2008 -2009 economic downturn ).  When Princeton plans for its 
future, it must take into account that suc h downturns are not only possible but inevitable.  
 
Funding new initiatives  
 
 The University draws heavily on endowment payout to fund its current 
operations , but the endowment is also critical to  new initiatives that the University might 
undertake , even though it is not sufficient  to support all of them .  Multiple sources of 
revenue —from philanthropy, tuition and fees, sponsored research, and other sources, 
such as intellectual property rights —play crucial roles in supporting the University’s 
mission .  All of them have contributed  to the University’s success today , and they will be 
important to the strategic priorities that it will pursue in the years to come.   
 
 To sustain the quality of both existing and new programs, Princeton will have to 
continue to be selective and strategic about the opportunities it pursues.  The University 
also will have to be mindful of pressures affecting its current financial model.  In 
particular, although the federal government  has increased funding for some forms of 
research in recent decades —the doubling of the National Institutes of Health budget 
between FY1999 and FY2003 is a prime example —years of below -inflation increases 
have taken their toll and the percentage of research costs borne by the federal 
government has declined steadily over the last five decades.  Even if there is bipartisan 
appreciation in Washington for the value of research and education in the abstract, strains 
on discretionary spending and polit ical battles over the budget will almost certainly limit 
government funding for sponsored research  in the years ahead . 
 
 Under these circumstances, Princeton’s ability to seize opportunities and respond 
to new challenges will depend upon using its multiple  revenue streams wisely and in 
combination with one another .  New ventures at Princeton that benefit from the support 
of generous donors  will usually require significant co-investment by the University :  even 
very large gifts are almost always insufficient  to cover the full cost of new programs or 
buildings.  Some investments and projects may be difficult to fund through philanthropy 
and so may depend almost entirely upon endowment resources and unrestricted gifts 
(including  Princeton’s unparalleled  Annual Giving  program , through which alumni , 
parents, and friends  have for decades contributed generously to the University and 
 7 sustained its margin of excellence ).  For example, the current renovation of Firestone 
Library is critical to Princeton’s teaching and research.  It  will ultimately cost 
approximately a quarter -billion dollars.  The University attracted  gifts to name and pay 
for the renovation of specific spaces within the Library, but the vast majority of the 
funding has come from endowment payout and unrestricted gifts .  This pattern will be 
common to many renovations of existing buildings.  Princeton is fortunate that it has 
been able to maintain and renovate its buildings  regularly, and thereby avoid the deferred 
maintenance problems that exist on many  university campuses, but the University’s 
renovation and maintenance program is a large as well as important claim on its 
endowment.  
 
The endowment spending policy  
 
 In light of the endowment’s critical importance to the University’s operating 
budget, its capital projects, and its ability to pursue  new initiatives, the b oard’s strategic 
planning discussions devoted considerable attention to the principles go verning 
endowment management.  The decision -making framework governing payout from 
Princeton’s endowment is designed around two principles:  the payout should be 
sufficiently predictable to facilitate responsible planning , and it should respect 
intergenerational equi ty, privileging neither current students and faculty nor future 
generations .  The first principle requires that the University avoid unnecessary 
volatility —it should, for example, smooth out the effects of market fluctuations  so that 
budgets do not rapidly  expand and contract from year to year.  The second principle is 
more complex.  It insists that when donors endow a University program or expense in 
perpetuity, their gift should provide future members of the Princeton community with 
roughly the same benef it (after adjustment for inflation) as it does to those present on 
campus when the gift is made.  This principle is a demanding one.  It requires that the 
University’s endowment managers be able (on average) to secure investment returns 
sufficient to recov er the amount paid out  each year  and to grow the endowed fund to keep 
up with relevant levels of inflation.  The optimal spending rate  is difficult to calibrate, 
since markets are unpredictable .  If the University spends too little  now, future 
Princetonians will benefit at the expense of current ones , while if it spends too much  
now, the reverse will occur.  
 
 To accomplish these challenging g oals, the University has determined the annual 
rate of p ayout from its endowment by applying policies tha t combine a target range, a 
presumed annual payout inflator, and an important element of human judgment.  Until 
fiscal year 2009 , the target range for the spend rate (the fraction of endowment value 
expended in a given year) ran from a floor of 4  percent  to 5 percent , and the presumed 
annual inflator was 5  percent .  The inflator meant that, in an ordinary year, the payout 
from the endowment (expressed in dollars, not in percentage terms) would i ncrease by 5  
percent  per unit of endowment , thereby keeping up with higher education inflation 
(including, for example, increases in the percentage of sponsored research expenses 
borne by the University).  To achieve intergenerational equity under these assumptions, 
the University’s endowment managers at PRINCO need ed to achieve average returns  in the 
range of 9 to 11 percent, thereby allowing the University simultaneously to spend 
 8 between 4 and 5 percent of the endowment annually and to grow the endowment in 
response to cost pressures.   
 
 As already mentioned, this po licy framework also incorporate s an important 
element of human judgment.  In years when the spend rate dipped below the 4  percent  
floor, the University trustees consider ed whether to authorize a payout increase 
substantially larger than the 5  percent  presu med inflator.  Such increases occurred several 
times in the 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  If the spend rate rose toward or above the 5  
percent  cap, the trustees consider ed slowing the increase in payout or reducing it.  
 
 Effective for fiscal year 2009 , the trustees raised the cap on the payout range to 
5.75 percent .  During the global financial downturn in 2008 -2009 , the value of the 
endowment fell by nearly 25 percent , and the spend rate briefly rose above the 5. 75 
percent  cap.  The University trustees r educed endowment payout by 8  percent  in fiscal 
year 2010 and by another 8  percent  in fiscal year 2011 .  The University re -baselined its 
budget by around $170 million per year through a combination of budget cuts and other 
changes.  
 
 The board reviewed this history in the course of its strategic planning.  PRINCO 
and the University’s Office of Finance and Treasury provided information about  the 
endowment’s performance and growth over time, and they developed projections for  how 
changes to t he target range or other aspects of the spending policy might affect the 
likelihood that the endowment would grow or diminish in the future.  The board noted 
that, over time, the University’s spending policies, although designed to achieve 
intergenerationa l equity, tended in practice to favor future generations.  Despite the 
downturn of 2008 -09, the payout from the University’s endowed funds today is in general 
higher, even after adjusting for inflation, than at the time when the funds were created.  
 
 The board also noted that relatively low spend rates might under some 
circumstances disadvantage both current and future generations.  Th at is true because th e 
University depends on three different kinds of capital:  financial capital (especially the 
endowment ); physical capital (buildings and grounds ); and human capital (faculty, 
students, staff, and alumni).  The University’s human capital is  the most critical of all:  a 
unive rsity’s quality correlates  directly with the quality of the people on its campus , and  a 
universit y relies upon its human talent not only for its current operations but to plan for 
the future and to attract new talent.  If a university fails to spend aggressively enough to 
sustain the quality of its human capital, it may have to spend even more in the future:  the 
cost of rescuing or rebuilding a second -tier department is generally higher than the cost of 
sustaining an outstanding one.  
 
Revisions to the spending policy  
 
 The board recognizes, of course, that  there is no guarantee that past patterns of 
endowment growth  will continue.  The statistical models that it reviewed included 
sobering reminders that, under virtually any imaginable policy, there is a risk that the 
value of endowed funds might decline in real terms, causing substantial disadvantage to 
 9 future generations of Princetonians.  That said, the board’s review of the University’s 
endowment spending policies led it to two crucial conclusions.  The first conclusion i s 
that the cap on the target range  should again be raised , this time from 5. 75 percent  to 6.25  
percent .  This change , which the board approved effective July 1, 2015,  serves two 
purposes.  Like the earlier increase from 5  percent  to 5.75 percent , it accommodates 
increasing market volatility that is likely to produce more rapid oscillations in the spend 
rate.  It will also reduce the likelihood that the University will make decisions that favor 
future generations at the expense of present ones, or that favor financial capital at the  
expense of human and physical capital.  
 
 The second conclusion is that, under appropriate conditions, the University should 
be willing to consider increasing its spend rate when that rate is near but still above the 
floor of the target band (rather than w aiting for that rate to dip below the floor).  This 
change allows the University to use its financial capital more strategically to enhance its 
human capital, its physical capital, and its mission.  In order to maximize the impact of 
increases to the spend  rate, Princeton should increase spending at moments when it is 
most able to act strategically, rather than when unpredictable market movements cause 
the rate to cross a particular numerical line.  There is no magical difference between 3.9  
percent  and 4.1  percent , for example:  if spending at 3.9  percent  favors future generations 
over current ones, spending at 4.1  percent  is likely to do so, too.  
 
 On July 1, the beginning of fiscal year 2016, Princeton’s spend rate was 4.12 
percent , only modestly above th e 4 percent  floor and significantly below the 5.12  percent  
midpoint of the new target spend band.  In light of that rate, and in light of the strategic 
planning taking place throughout the University, the b oard authorized the administration 
to propose an i ncrease to the spend rate that would take place over fiscal years 201 7 and 
2018.  The increase would provide resources that the University could use to co -invest 
with donors to fund  the strategic priorities described below.  
 
Strategic Priorities  
 
 Princeton’s strategic priorities must emanate from its core mission as a residential 
liberal arts research university that serves the world through teaching and research of 
unsurpassed quality in the arts and humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and 
engineering.   They must also be shaped by the two major trends affecting that mission:  
the growing leadership responsibilities that accompany Princeton’s increasingly 
distinctive capacity to contribute to the world, and the evolving opportunities and 
challenges on campus and beyond that result from technological advancement . 
 
Supporting excellence in the University’s core mission  
 
In light of the value and robustness of the University’s longstanding mission, its 
first priority must be to make the inves tments needed to ensure the continued excellence 
of its teaching and research programs.  As has already been noted, human capital is the 
most critical of the University’s three forms of capital.  The University must invest as 
 10 needed to attract the best und ergraduates, graduate students, research scholars, and 
professors.   
 
Faculty quality .  The quality of the  University’s  faculty is especially important  to 
its future .  The University’s professoriate not only conducts its teaching and research 
programs but also plays an indispens able role in the governance of the University, 
making  or contributing to  crucial decisions about policies and hiring.  No university can 
be great without a great faculty, and a great faculty can attract many other resources , 
includin g grants and gifts that are needed to support the university’s teaching and 
research mission .  Princeton is fortunate to have a world -class faculty in every field that it 
offers, and sustaining this rare and consistent quality is one of our highest priorities . 
 
 The competition for outstanding faculty  members  is intense.  Though few 
universities can match its resources, Princeton often finds itself competing with a small 
number of peers, in the United States and abroad, with comparable capacity to at tract the 
best faculty .  Moreover, less well -resourced universities may choose to concentrate 
resources on a small number of appointments or fields, thereby enabling them to compete  
aggressively in those areas.  In some fields, such as computer science, Pr inceton now 
finds itself in regular competition with private sector firms that offer salaries far higher 
than are available in academia.  Princeton also sometimes faces location -specific 
disadvantages in its recruiting and retention battles:  for example, it may be difficult to 
attract or keep two -career couples if a faculty member’s spouse or partner is unable to 
find a job at or near the University.  
 
 Maintaining  and enhancing the excellence of the University’s faculty will require 
continued attention and  investment.  The University must pay competitive salaries.  It 
must be able to provide other benefits or inducements — in many cases, support for 
spouses and partners while they search for jobs on campus and in the vicinity —offered 
by its peers.  Perhaps most significantly, Princeton must ensure that faculty members 
have the facilities, funds, and staff support necessary to carry out their teaching and 
research.  In fields that depend upon government research grants, t his need becomes 
increasingly important, and increasingly expensive to meet, as state and federal  budgets 
become tighter and sometimes narrow er in the research they support . 
 
 Princeton’s educational model includes a commitment to teaching that is unusual 
for a great resear ch university.  Princeton expects its leading faculty members to teach 
both undergraduates and graduate students, while also remain ing at the forefront of 
scholarship and research alongside (or ahead of) peers at other universities that expect 
less teachin g from star researchers.  Princeton must recognize the demands that this 
expectation places on its faculty members and provide them with the support they need  to 
pursue both their research and their teaching effectively.  
 
 Supporting the work of faculty me mbers and responding to the educational needs 
of students will require that the University have the flexibility to seize key research 
opportunities.  Academic departments or key subgroups of faculty will inevitably  identify 
new areas of scholarship, new instrumentation, or new research techniques that are 
 11 essential to the quality of the University’s academic enterprise and that can succeed only 
if the University is able to provide resources or supplement funding ava ilable from 
external sources.  The University must plan so that it has the flexibility to respond 
effectively to such requests when they arise and are deemed sufficiently compelling.  
 
 Diversity  and inclusivity .  The University’s core mission also requires  continued 
efforts to enhance the diversity an d inclusivity of the entire campus  community , at all 
levels and in all fields .  As this board recognized  in September 2013  when it endorsed the 
report of the Trustee Ad Hoc Committee on Diversity, diversity is important to 
Princeton’s teaching and research for many  reasons.  To achieve the excellence to which 
it aspires, Princeton must find , attract , and support  talented people from a wide range of 
demographic groups , and it must provide a campus cli mate in which people from all 
backgrounds learn from and share experiences and perspectives with each other .  A 
diverse , inclusive , and collaborative  learning community sparks  creativity and  insight , 
generates  meaningful conversation , and facilitates inter cultural connection and 
understanding .  Diversity is essential to  Princeton ’s efforts  to meet the needs of a world 
that requires leaders who come from a wide varie ty of backgrounds and groups and  who 
are able to wo rk effectively across cultures and across political and social divides.  
 
Princeton must be inclusive as well as diverse :  faculty, graduate students, 
undergraduates, alumni , and staff of all backgrounds and from all groups must  have the 
resources they need to flourish, and they must feel welcomed, engaged, and embraced on 
the Princeton campus and throughout Princeton’s broader community .  Over the past five 
decades t he University has made tremendous progress toward achieving a much more 
inclusive co mmunity.  The board and the administratio n recognize, however, the need to 
take further steps to create an environment that even more fully embraces the benefits of 
diversity, supports individuals of all backgrounds, and eliminates any remaining  barriers 
to the success and sense of belonging of persons from underrepresented groups.  
Diversifying Princeton’s faculty is one of the most important thing s the University can do 
to improve the climate  for learning and engagement on campus , and the board and the 
administration have reaffirmed their commit ment to doing so.  
 
Residential life.  A key feature of Princeton’s undergraduate program is its 
commitment to a vibrant and immersive residential experience.  Undergraduate alumni 
treasure experiences and learning that derived from extra -curricular and co -curricular 
activities during their time at Princeton —activities in domains as diverse as athletics, the 
arts, religious life, community service, and many more.  The board noted  with approval 
that the University has  increased its  attention to graduate student residential life and to 
facilitating interaction  between the University’s undergraduate and graduate student 
populations.  The University must sustain and en hance the quality of its residential life 
programs so that students continue to benefit from meaningful  and rewarding experiences 
that prepare them to develop talents, assume responsibi lities, and exercise leadership  in 
their lives beyond Princeton.  
 
The University’s investments in residential life also provide critical support for 
the learning environment, encouraging collaboration among students and with mentors, 
 12 and for the inclusivity that is so crucial to engaging students fully and reaping the 
benefits of a diverse campus.   The University  will have to invest to ensure that all 
students find an environment that is welcoming and supportive and an array of extra -
curricular and co -curricular experiences that are meaningful and rewarding.  
 
Undergraduate financial aid.  The University’s financial aid programs have 
benefited undergraduates for generations, but in 2001 Princeton announced reforms that 
had a transformative impact on its students and  also inspired changes at many other 
colleges a nd universities.  Princeton promised to meet full demonstrated financial needs 
through grants rather than loans ; it eliminated the consideration of home equity when 
calculating a family’s capacity to pay for college ; and it extended the full benefit of its  
financial aid program to foreign students.  As a result of these changes, Princeton is often 
rated America’s most affordable college, and its student s graduate with less debt than 
their counterparts at other leading institutions . 
 
Affordability has become  one of Princeton’s signature commitments .  In the years 
since 2001, Princeton has continued to improve its scholarship program with the goal of 
ensuring that students on aid are able not only to attend Princeton but also to share fully 
in the educational opportunities it offers.  Alumni are proud of the University’s financial 
aid program, and they have supported it generously, allowing Princeton to grow its aid 
budget  even during the recent worldwide economic downturn .  That budget now exceeds 
$140 million  per year (more than three times its size in 2001) .  We should expect the 
budget to  continue growing  as Princeton attracts a more socioeconomically diverse 
student body.  The University must be ready to invest as needed to ensure that 
Princeton’s aid progr am meets the needs of its students . 
 
 The role and size of the Graduate School .  Graduate ed ucation is indispens able 
to Princeton’s core teaching and research mission.  Graduate students contribute to that 
mission in multiple ways.  Th ey are essential collaborator s in faculty research  projects  
(especially in the natural sciences, engineering, and some social sciences) ; they teach 
undergraduates in precepts and laboratories ; and they play an increasingly large role in 
the residential life of the Universi ty.  Most significantly,  however, graduate students are 
important to the University because of their potential to be  future leaders both within  the 
academy , where Princeton’s Graduate School is one of the world’s premier  sources of 
scholarly talent , and ou tside it.  Princeton must accordingly ensure that it offers stipends 
and other support that allow it to attract the best graduate students, and it must likewise 
ensure that those students have what they need to pursue their studies and other projects 
successfully after arriving at Princeton.  
 
 The board devoted special  attention during the strategic planning process to the 
size and anticipated growth rate for the Graduate School.  Princeton’s Graduate School 
has traditionally been smaller than the grad uate schools of other outstanding research 
universities:  Princeton does not have the large professional schools that exist at and 
sometimes dominate its peers, and Princeton has fewer doctoral candidates per faculty 
member than do its peers.  The smaller size of the graduate student bo dy is consistent 
with key elements of Princeton’s distinctive educational model:  it is in keeping, for 
 13 example, with the relatively intimate scale of Princeton’s scholarly community, and it 
makes it possible for the Universi ty to support its graduate students differently than its 
peers —for example, by housing a larger percentage of them .  On the other hand, the 
relatively small size of the University’s doctoral cohorts puts some pressure on 
Princeton’s academic enterprise, es pecially in engineering and the natural sciences, where 
faculty members depend on graduate students as research collaborators .  Faculty 
members in all divisions of the University covet the opportunity to train and interact with 
graduate students who will b ecome the next generation of academic leaders  and serve 
society in many other ways . 
 
 The b oard concluded that the University should expect to maintain graduate 
cohorts smaller (on a per faculty member basis) than at other universities, but that 
Princeton should expect incremental growth in the size of the graduate student body from 
two sources.   First, the University will often need to add graduate students as it adds 
faculty members  and expands into new areas of scholarship and research .  This 
imperative will be especially strong in fields where graduate students are research 
collaborators.  It  will also exist in other fields, though the exact relationship may depend 
upon the strength of job markets, the availability of post -doctoral fellows, and other 
considerations.  Second, the University may have to respond in some cases to specific 
competit ive pressures affecting  the number of graduate stu dents per faculty member.  The 
board reaffirmed that Princeton should make these adjustments selectively and 
strategically, and should not try to match ratios at peer institutions; here , as in many other 
respects, Princeton pursues a different model with its own advantages and challenges.   
Future growth rates will thus depend on a variety of factors .  While f orecasting growth is 
difficult, past experience may provide a very rough guide: the dean of the graduate school 
noted in discussions with the board that Princeton’s entering cohort of doctoral students 
has grown by less than 10 percent over the past 15 years, even with the addition of new 
Ph.D. programs such as neuroscience and quantitative and compu tational biology . 
 
 The physical campus.   The University must also steward and develop the 
University’s buildings and grounds so as to preserve Princeton’s distinctive character and 
strengths, advance its strategic priorities, and optimize the extent to wh ich the 
University’s facilities support and advance its educational and research mission.  The 
physical campus is fundamental to th is mission:  the University depends on having 
classrooms that promote engaged learning, academic buildings that facilitate 
collaboration and research, and residential spaces that foster an inclusive and stimulating 
community.  The scale and organization of the campus reinforce the  ethos of the 
University by  encouraging interpersonal contact , interdisciplinary association, and 
thoughtful contemplation .  The character of the campus is also important in its own 
right —alumni often mention the beauty of the campus when describing the ties that bind 
them to their alma mater, and the mission statement set forth above speaks of a campu s 
with a distinctive  sense of place that promotes interaction, reflection, and lifelong  
attachment.  
 
 As was previously mentioned, Princeton is fortunate to have avoided the deferred 
maintenance backlog s that plague many colleges and universities.  That b lessing results 
 14 from careful planning and budgeting in decades past, and the University will have to 
ensure that it continues to maintain its campus appropriately.  The University does have a 
number of buildings  that are tired, strained, or otherwise less than optimal for the 
programs they support.  The University will need to renew these buildings over time.  
The schedule on which it does so will depend partly on the interest and availability of 
donors.  Where donors have an interest in a particular depart ment or building, it will 
make sense for the University to co -invest with them to renovate facilities that would in 
any event need attention in the foreseeable future.  
 
Meeting Princeton’s responsibilities for leadership in research and education  
 
 When Princeton fortifies its existing programs or launches new ones, it must 
consider how best to meet the needs of a nation and a world where the exceptional 
teaching and research it can provide are at once greatly needed and all too rare.  This 
combination of  demand and scarcity is perhaps nowhere more evident than in the 
competition for undergraduate admission at Princeton and other great universities.  
Princeton now turns down a higher number, and a higher percentage, of qualified 
applicants for undergraduat e admission than at any point in its history.  Each year we turn 
down students who have the talent and character needed to reap the full benefit of a 
Princeton education, who would add to the diversity and luster of our student body, and 
whose Princeton ed ucation would enable them to contribute significantly to the world 
after their graduation.  
 
 Expanding the undergraduate student body.  Under these circumstances, the 
board believes that Princeton should  expand the size of the incoming undergraduate class 
if the University can do so in a way that preserves the distinctive character and value of 
the Princeton experience. The University’s recent experience suggests that such an 
expansion is indeed possible.  On the basis of the April 2000 Wythes Committee rep ort, 
Princeton expanded its undergraduate student population by roughly 125 students per 
class or 500 students overall.  Princeton took care to add residential facilities and other 
infrastructure to support the experience of the expanded class.  It also hired faculty 
members in departments that required additional capacity to meet increased demand, and 
staff members to provide necessary resources and support services to a larger student 
population.  Princeton would do likewise in any further expansion.   This expansion, like 
the one completed in the last decade, would require resources from gifts, the endowment, 
and tuition revenue.  
 
 In many departments and programs, the needed faculty members are already in 
place.  Princeton’s faculty and graduate student b ody grow incrementally as the 
University enters new fields of research and scholarship.  Periodic increases to the 
undergraduate class are therefore entirely consistent with the goal of preserving the 
University’s distinctive character and commitment to un dergraduate teaching; absent 
such expansion, the University would over time become more heavily focused on 
research and graduate education.  
 
15 The b oard has authorized the administration to begin planning for the addition of 
500 more undergraduate students (125 per class), which would entail the construction of 
a seventh residential college, with the expectation that over time it is likely that there will 
be an additional increase in the number of undergraduates and housing to accommodate 
them.  Keeping this longer-term perspective in mind will have multiple benefits:  it will 
encourage careful thinking about when and how to move toward a further increase in the 
University’s capacity to provide a Princeton education to many more qualified applicants 
(while still preserving the exceptional quality of the undergraduate experience); it will 
enable the University to plan more strategically for both the near-term and the later 
expansion, including with regard to the location of undergraduate dormitories, residential 
colleges, and the composition of the expanded class; and it will allow the University 
more flexibility to improve existing residential facilities while it adds new ones. 
Admissions philosophy and socioeconomic diversity.   The expansion will benefit 
a wide variety of applicants and will provide opportunities to enhance the diversity of 
Princeton’s undergraduate student body.  The board considered and reaffirmed the 
University’s holistic admissions philosophy, which emphasizes the need to craft a student 
body consisting of individuals who have the academic talent to benefit from Princeton’s 
rigorous course of study and who possess a range of other characteristics and values that 
enable them to have a positive impact on one another and on society.  The b oard noted 
the continuing importance of attracting students with interests in all of the fields of study 
offered at the University. 
The board believes it is important for the University to identify and attract more 
qualified students from low-income families.  The board was impressed with strong 
evidence showing that a college degree is the most important factor in allowing students 
from low-income backgrounds to achieve social mobility, and that talented students from 
low-income families are most likely to thrive if they attend highly selective, well-
resourced institutions such as Princeton.  A Princeton education is beneficial to a wide 
range of students, but the contribution that Princeton can make to students from low-
income families is especially transformative and profound.  The University has made a 
concerted effort over the past decade to increase its socioeconomic diversity; it should 
continue those efforts and ensure that we provide these students with the support they 
need once they are here. 
To increase the tools available to the Unive rsity to enroll a diver se student body, 
the board authorized the reinstatement of a small transfer admissions program.  Princeton 
has not accepted transfer students since 1990.  Experience at other universities shows that 
transfer programs can provide a vehicle to attract students with diverse backgrounds and 
experiences, such as qualified military veterans and students from low-income 
backgrounds, including some who might begin their caree rs at community colleges.   
Reinforcing Princeton’s commitment to service.  The case for expansion of the 
student body is based in part on the idea that Princeton’s alumni will use their educations 
to benefit not only themselves but also society more broadly.  Princeton’s informal motto 
calls upon the University and its alumni to act “in the nation’s service and in the service 
 16 of all nations.”  Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’76 both invoked and broadened 
this commitment when, in a speech on Alumni Day 2014, she spoke of Princeton “in the 
service of all humanity.”  
 
 Service can  take a variety of forms.  Princetonians may hold leadership roles in 
the public or private sectors; they may involve themselves in local community 
organizations or international aid efforts; they may join the military or dedicate 
themselves to teaching.  They may, as Justice Sotomayor pointed out, render quiet acts of 
kindness to friends or relatives who are in need.  The commitment to service is not 
ultimately about what vocation or avocation one pursues, but about how one pursues it.  
Princeton should re inforce in its students an appreciation for the value of service as well 
as the skills and habits of mind needed to serve effectively.  
 
 The board agreed that, in light of Princeton’s special capacity for teaching and 
research, the University should renew and enhance its longstanding commitment to the 
ideal of service.  It should seek ways to emphasize and facilitate service in its curricular, 
co-curricular, and extra -curricular programs, and it should facilitate the aspirations and 
capacities of faculty me mbers to connect their teaching and research to meeting the 
world’s needs.  
 
 Opportuni ties for academic leadership.   The University’s academic departments 
are all of exceptional quality, and each plays a leadership role within its field.  Additional 
opport unities for academic expansion and leadership will inevitably continue to emerge 
as disciplines arise and evolve and as Princeton scholars develop innovative approaches 
to problems both old and new.  While mindful that much of the future may not be 
foresee able, the board identified several areas of current priority for enhancing the 
academic capacities of the University.  Some relate to the impact of technological 
advancement and are described in the next section of this report.  Three others, described 
below, pertain more generally to the arts and humanities, world affairs, and the natural 
environment.  
 
 Arts and humanities .  Princeton is a globally recognized leader in humanistic 
scholarship and education  and is committed to sustaining the vigor and creati vity of its 
programs in the arts and the humanities:  they are important to understanding the human 
condition and indispens able to the liberal arts education that Princetonians hold dear.  
Elsewhere in America and the world, however, support for the arts and the humanities 
has eroded; shrinking budgets and other financial pressures have too often led decision -
makers to invest in programs with demonstrable short -term pay -offs rather than in t hose 
that deepen our understanding of what is beautiful, lasting, or profound.  Society is 
thereby deprived of perspectives upon and insights into value, culture, and identity that 
are especially needed in times of rapid and stressful change.  Under these circumstances, 
Princeton has a special responsibility to exercise visible leadership in the arts and 
humanities by nurturing such scholarship on its own campus and helping to raise its 
standing throughout the world.  We are very fortunate that exceedingly generous donors 
have enhanced our capacities in these areas, including Peter Lewis ’55, whose 
transformative gift enabled the University to dramatically expand its commitment to the 
 17 creative and performing arts, and William Scheide ’36, whose extraordinary  gift of rare 
books and manuscripts is now one of the defining collections in Firestone Library.  
 
 World affairs  and cultures .  Princeton’s faculty, students, and alumni participate 
in a world that is remarkably global  and multicultural :  social, economic,  environmental, 
political, and other networks transcend international and cultural boundaries, creating 
dynamic connections, complex challenges, and novel opportunities.  Princeton must 
provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to contribute  to this globalized 
world, and must enable faculty and scholars to address the problems that matter to it 
through their scholarship and teaching.  Doing so will require continued emphasis on 
increasing the number and quality of the University’s study abroa d initiatives and other 
international programs.  It will also require the University to add to  its scholarly strength 
in the st udy of key regions  and cultures  in the contemporary world .  Princeton is fortunate 
to have outstanding faculty members in regiona l and cultural studies .  Now i t must build 
upon the foundation that they  provide  and facilitate even further the interdisciplinary and 
comparative scholarship that is  so essential to the success of their  fields.  
 
 Environmental studies .  Issues related to the environment, including climate 
change and other global -scale phenomena, are among the most urgent problems now 
facing the world.  Student interest in these topics is rising; in light of the severity and 
visibility of the issues, it wi ll undoubtedly continue to increase.  Princeton is fortunate to 
have on its faculty extraordinary natural scientists, engineers, social scientists, and 
humanists whose innovative scholarship and teaching is helping us understand the 
problems we face and de velop solutions to crises of unprecedented scope and potentially 
catastrophic impact.  The Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment, made 
possible by a visionary gift from Gerhard Andlinger ’52, is enhancing Princeton’s ability 
to teach and conduct research on issues related to technology, energy, and the 
environment.  The Andlinger Center has connections that extend through many 
departments and disciplines, but its intellectual and physical home is in the School of 
Engineering and Applied Science.  To fully exercise its leadership responsibilities in the 
field of environmental studies, Princeton must undertake a comparably bold and 
interdisciplinary initiative centered on the environmental sciences.  In doing so, Princeton 
would be able to leverage i ts outstanding faculty in the Department of Ecology and 
Evolutionary Biology, the Department of Geosciences, the Department of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering, the Princeton Environmental Institute, and related units .  
These s cholars do brilliant work today but many of them  are housed in outdated facilities 
that cannot support modern research in these critical endeavors.  The success and impact 
of their teaching and research in the future will depend upon the University’s ability to 
supply the improved facilities they need.  
 
 Leadership in higher education.   Princeton  shares a scholarly and educational 
mission with other  colleges and universities  throughout the United States and the world , 
each in its own way striving to meet the world’s growing demand for teaching and 
research.   Many of these institutions find themselves under threat from declining budgets, 
burdensome  regulation s or taxes , infringements on free speech and academic freedom, 
and other pressures.  Princeton must participate vigorously in discussions about the future 
 18 of higher education , not only to ensure that it can continue to pursue its mission at the 
highest levels of quality, but also to promote the valuable and irreplaceable work that is 
done at many other colleges and universities.  One of the great strengths of higher 
education in this country has long been the wide range of institutions that serve students 
with a broad array of backgrounds, interests, and capabilities , and it is important that this 
diversity of educational models be  sustained .  Princeton should also look for 
opportunities to support faculty members who are engaged in research about how to 
make education, including higher education, more effective or more efficient.  
 
Responding to technology’s i mpact on research, education, and society  
 
 To maximize its value and influence as a great liberal arts university, Princeton 
must seize the opportunities and confront the challenges arising from the effects of 
technological advancement, which has transformed the questions re searchers want to 
investigate, the ways students learn, and the patterns and practices people and groups use 
to organize their activities.  
 
Investing in engi neering and information science .  Princeton’s outstanding 
School of Engineering and Applied Science , which uniquely blends the qualities of a 
great engineering school and Princeton’s commitment to the liberal arts, gives the 
University a special advantage in addressing technological change and its consequences 
for society.  Princeton embraced engineerin g during a period when some Ivy League 
universities ignored the field.  Princeton thereby made a wise choice:  it has become clear 
that in the 21st century, a great liberal arts university requires a great engineering school.  
 
 Princeton is fortunate to have a superb engineering faculty that is notable for its 
interdisciplinary character and its commitment to liberal arts education.  Over the past 
two decades, helped by the extraordinary generosity of donors including Gerhard 
Andlinger ’52, Jay Sherrerd ’52, Sir Gordon Wu ’58, and Dennis Keller ’63, the 
University has improved the School’s facilities and has increased the funding available to 
support its teaching and research.  Most of the School, however, remains housed in 
facili ties that were constructed to a utilitarian standard more than a half -century ago and 
that are no longer adequate to the School’s research and teaching.  The University will 
need to invest aggressively to support both the School’s existing programs and new  
initiatives in emerging fields . 
 
 Fields related to information science —including computer science, statistics, and 
machine learning —will require special attention.  These fields are revolutionizing the 
organization of human society and transforming schol arly disciplines throughout the 
University.  Not surprisingly, they attract students in droves:  over the past decade, the 
number of students concentrating in computer science has tripled, and the enrollment in 
computer science courses has quadrupled.  The  University has already begun to expand 
the size of it s computer science faculty; it also will have to cultivate and grow its faculty 
in statistics and machine learning to serve as an intellectual leader in the field and form 
strong connections to the many other disciplines within the University that will benefit 
from this field’s work and influence.  
 19  
 Technology’s impact on research and teaching.   Technological a dvancement has 
changed not only what faculty members and students want to study, but also how they 
think about the impact that their ideas can have on the world.  Many of them want to be 
entrepreneurs who not only identify new insights or innovations, but also find ways to 
deploy them to address societal needs.  Entrepreneurship can nurture creative energy, and 
it can be the source of ideas or questions that feed back into academic study.  
Entrepreneurship also advances the University’s service mission by b ringing knowledge 
and discovery to bear on social, cultural, and economic problems.  The Keller Center for 
Innovation in Engineering Education and the Princeton Entrepreneurship Council are 
promoting “entrepreneurship the Princeton way” —that is, in a way c onsistent with the 
liberal arts ideals and the education and research mission of this University.  These 
efforts are important to the University’s future, and Princeton should continue to develop 
and extend its distinctive approach to entrepreneurship.  
 
 The digital revolution’s impact on scholarship and teaching extends beyond the 
disciplines and centers specifically concerned with information technology, 
entrepreneurship, or engineering more broadly.  “Big data” is touching and changing 
every field in the  University.  Humanists mine databases to understand the evolution of 
English prose; social scientists have new tools for investigating social behavior and 
transformation; and natural scientists rely on high -performance computing to analyze vast 
collection s of data about the human genome, the brain, or the origins of the universe.  
Princeton must ensure that scholars and students have the facilities, the support staff, the 
data, and the training they need to tackle the questions that information technology has 
rendered newly amenable to inquiry and exploration.  
 
Princeton should also continue to explore how online pedagogy can enhance 
teaching on campus and elsewhere.  The board saw little reason to believe that online 
education could displace or substitute for Princeton’s residential model of undergraduate 
and graduate education.  Good teaching is not a matter of simple information 
transmission that might occur through online vehicles (or, for that matter, simply by 
reading books); it depends on personal rel ationships —between teacher and students, and 
among students —that motivate learning, instill insights, and cultivate habits of mind.  
Those relations benefit enormously from proximity.  Online technologies may, however, 
usefully supplement person -to-person teaching, or provide a partial replacement in 
circumstances where residential instruction is impractical or unavailable.  
 
Cultivating networks , partnerships , and entrepreneurship .  Technological  
advances are also affecting the relationship between Princeto n and external partners from 
the non -profit , for-profit, and governmental sectors.  Princeton’s faculty members see 
growing opportunities for research collaborations with partners outside of academia to 
advance the University’s educational mission.  In som e fields, such as machine learning, 
leading researchers move fluidly between academia, large firms, and start -ups.  In other 
fields, including biochemistry and molecular biology, some fundamental questions may 
be addressed only through large -scale experime ntal projects that benefit from cooperation 
between non -academic and University researchers.  As faculty members and students 
 20 become increasingly interested in the potential to apply their ideas to problems through 
entrepreneurial activity, they seek great er connection to the networks and resources that 
facilitate such activity.  
 
In this way, technology is making proximity and human contact not less 
important, but rather more important, to the basic research and teaching mission of the 
University:  Princeto n needs to find ways to cultivate interaction between its faculty 
members, researchers, and students and their counterparts in the non -profit, corporate, 
and government sectors.  The University might achieve this goal in a number of ways, 
including by expa nding its role as a convener of events that combine audiences from 
multiple constituencies and groups, by facilitating grass -roots contacts and connections 
developed by its faculty members, or by planning for the development of campus lands in 
ways that ma ke possible productive interactions.  Any successful strategy is likely to 
have both short -term and long -term elements.  Although it remains to be determined what 
mechanisms will work best, the b oard is convinced that Princeton should encourage the 
growth of networks and infrastructure that allow it to connect with non -academic partners 
who can help it carry out its teaching and research mission and enhance its impact on the 
world.  
 
Applying the strategic framework to proposals  
 
 The priorities and judgments articulated in this report are intended not to provide 
a list of projects for execution, but instead to supply a basis for judging proposals and 
initiatives that will be brought forward in the  future.  The b oard expects that some of 
those proposa ls will emerge from recommendations made by the campus task forces that 
have been meeting over the past two years, and in some cases are continuing to meet.  
Several of those task forces have published reports, and others will do so in the months to 
come.  The reports are part of a continuing conversation .  The Princeton community has 
had, and will continue to have, an opportunity to submit feedback about them .  After 
collecting comments , the University administration publishes responses to the reports .  
Further vetting of the recommendations takes place in light of the strategic priorities 
outlined in this document , and other relevant considerations.  The task forces were asked 
to “think big,” with the understanding that not all of their recommendations wou ld be 
translated into actions —indeed, one purpose of the task force process has been to identify 
the “opportunity costs” of new initiatives that Princeton undertakes, and that purpose will 
be served only if the task forces made some recommendations that, w hile attractive, 
cannot be implemented at present.  
 
 The administration will bring proposals (whether emanating from the task forces 
or other sources) that require a significant comm itment of resources before the Board of 
Trustees through its usual process es.  B oth the administration and the b oard will evaluate 
proposals on the basis of criteria derived from this framework.  Obviously, no single 
proposal will advance all of the University’s priorities.  Particular proposals will have to 
be judged against ot her initiatives that are being considered by the University or that 
might foreseeably  be considered in the future.  The goal of the evaluation will be to 
identify initiatives and projects that advance the mission of the University and are 
 21 consistent with i ts strategic objectives, while being ever mindful of both feasibility and 
opportunity costs.  
 
 The b oard and the administration will use questions that include the following 
ones to evaluate proposals in light of the strategic framework that this report se ts forth:  
 
 Is the proposal consistent with Princeton’s commitment to maintain  the 
scholarly excellence of all of its teaching and research  programs —including 
the excellence of the proposed initiative itself and the excellence  of existing 
programs that might otherwise benefit from the resources  required by the new  
initiative?  
 
 Is the proposal consistent with other features of Princeton’s mission,  including, 
in particular, its distinctive commitment to maintain a faculty of world -class  
scholars who are devoted to teaching, and who are engaged with and accessible  
to both graduate and undergraduate  students , and does it capitalize on 
Princeton’s other distinctive strengths ? 
 
 How does the proposal compare to other options for advancing  Princeton’s 
strategic  priorities:  
 
o What are the benefits of pursuing the proposal?  
 
o What are the costs, including the opportunity costs, of pursuing the 
proposal?  
 
o What are the costs or risks that might result from a decision not to pursue 
the proposal?  
 
 How effectively and appropriately does the proposal take into  account important 
resource considerations, including deploying  Princeton’s endowment efficiently, 
sustaining Princeton’s commitment  to affordability and access, making effective 
use of  fundraising opportunities, an d respecting the need to use resources  
sustainably?  
 
 Has the process for developing the proposal been sufficiently broad  to ensure 
that information was gathered from multiple perspectives  and that an appropriate 
range of opinions and viewpoints  was heard and thoughtfully considered ? 
 
 Is the proposed initiative configured and resourced in a way consistent with its 
anticipated lifetime?  To the extent that the proposal establishes permanent or 
very long -term changes to the University, are those ch anges both justified and 
sustainable?  
 22  
 The b oard anticipates that it will refine and supplement these questions over 
time.  They should suffice, however, to illustrate the purpose of the framework and 
the way in which it can be expected to guide the Unive rsity’s course in the years 
ahead.  
 
Standards for evaluating success  
 
 For this framework plan to provide ongoing and effective guidance to the 
University’s administration and trustees, Princeton must have ways to evaluate the 
success of the initiatives that it undertakes pursuant to the plan, as well as mechanisms to 
assess the continuing vitality of the plan itself.  The long -term character of Princeton’s 
mission complicates the specification of criteria by which to judge success.  Princeton’s 
educational model makes  an aggressive investment in human capital and rigorous 
scholarship that may not yield returns for many years hence —it depends upon the idea 
that students will, 20 or more years after graduation, still be blossom ing into ethical 
leaders and engaged citizens who make significant contributions to society, and that 
curiosity -driven discoveries will eventually have applications that could scarcely have 
been imagined when they were made.  Princeton aims at unsurpassed excellence in its 
scholarship and teaching both because of its intrinsic value and, importantly, becaus e of 
the benefits it will produce over the very long term.  
 
 To evaluate the success of this mission, the University should ideally try to assess 
both the current quality of its teaching and research and also its ultimate impact on its 
alumni and the world .  Useful but imperfect measures of quality are readily available; 
measuring impact is harder but important.  
 
 External peer review is an indispens able source of information about the quality 
of the University’s scholarly enterprise and teaching programs.  The University regularly 
commissions external reviews of its programs.  Student and alumni feedback also 
provides useful data about the quality of Princeton’s educational programs.  Princeton 
surveys all of its students at graduation, and also collects da ta periodically from students 
at other stages of their careers and from alumni.  The University participates in various 
competitive markets that provide evidence about how others perceive its quality and 
value.  We include in this category the University’s  efforts to attract the best faculty 
members, graduate students, and undergraduates, and its success in making the case for 
sponsored research grants, philanthropic contributions, and other forms of financial 
support.  
 
 There are also, of course, widely p ublished and much discussed reputational 
rankings of academic programs, colleges, and universities.  For the most part, these 
rankings combine multiple incommensurable factors (for example, financial resources per 
capita, undergraduate selectivity, and fac ulty honors) on the basis of arbitrary weightings 
and formulae.  Equally valid (or invalid) formulae would produce different results.  
Princeton does well in the rankings, but we believe that they have limited value by 
comparison to the kinds of data menti oned in the preceding paragraph.  
 23  
 To assess the long -term impact of the University’s educational programs, 
Princeton must track the achievements and activities of its alumni over many years.  The 
University’s periodic surveys already provide some useful d ata.  More scholarly analyses 
of long -term outcomes might yield additional insights but would  require sustained 
commitment and funding.  The board believes that Princeton should facilitate such work 
and encourage more of it .  Good data is beneficial to Pri nceton’s own decision -making 
and will help to make the case for national investment in higher education.  
 
 Princeton’s administration has in past years periodically discussed peer review 
data, survey results, and other available measures of the University’ s performance with 
trustee committees and the full board.  The administration will in the future use this 
strategic framework as a template to help organize and highlight the data that it reports.  
That information will be used to enrich discussion of the University’s progress toward the 
strategic priorities identified in this framework and may also generate changes or 
refinements  to the framework itself.  The b oard plans to conduct a thorough review of the 
framework and publish an updated version on a quad rennial basis.   
 
Conclusion:  a liberal arts university for the 21st century  
 
 Among the world’s great universities and colleges, Princeton University has long 
been recognized for its distinctive model and mission.  In an era when many other 
research institutions have become “multiversities” that sprawl across disciplines, 
objectives, and geography, Princeton has remained resolutely focused on the excellence 
of its programs in the arts and humanities, the social sciences, the natural sciences, and 
engineering and the applied sciences.  In times when many people measure the quality of 
universities through metrics that privilege size or quantity, Princeton has instead 
emphasized the uniformly high quality of its faculty and students and the vibrancy of th e 
personalized contact made possible by the human dimensions of its campus and its 
educational enterprise.  When much of the world separates higher education institutions 
into colleges that focus on teaching and universities that concentrate on research, 
Princeton insists that teaching and research are not only mutually compatible but indeed 
synergistic, demanding that the frontiers of scholarly inquiry be brought into its 
classrooms and recognizing that exchanges between teachers and students may generate 
sparks of creativity that ignite innovation and discovery.  
 
 Princeton’s distinctive model and mission have throughout the University’s 
history given its students and faculty the freedom to focus on questions that matter 
tremendously over the longer term.  The extraordinary value of that freedom has been 
exemplified in many ways throughout the University’s history —including, 
paradigmatically, by undergraduate alumnus James Madison 1771 , whose study of 
philosophy and political theory shaped the Constitution  and by graduate alumnus Alan 
Turing *38 , whose research broke Nazi codes and laid the foundation for the digital 
revolution .  Other significant contributions to society have been made by generations of 
undergraduate and graduate alumni who drew upon their Princeton educations to become 
leaders in their professions, their communities, and their countries, and by the many 
 24 prize -winning faculty members whose pioneering research has reshaped scholarly 
disciplines, altered technological boundaries, and influence d policy debates.  
 
The b oard concluded its strategic planning deliberations convinced that 
Princeton’s distinctive model and mission are today more  vibrant, valuable, and relevant 
to the world’s problems than ever.  The University’s exceptional character a nd resources 
provide it with a special capacity to deliver teaching and research on questions both 
profound and urgent.  By accepting the leadership responsibilities that accompany that 
capacity, and by seizing the opportunities to use and address technolo gy’s impact on the 
development of knowledge and society, Princeton University extends the principles that 
define it as a liberal arts university into the 21st century and honors its commitment to 
serve the nation and the world.  
 
