Our strategic plan
2021-2024
Our strategic plan 2021-20242
“The Founder believes that the 
education of women should not 
be exclusively regulated by the 
tradition and method of former 
ages; but that it should be founded 
on those studies and sciences 
which the experience of modern 
times has shown to be the most 
valuable, and the best adapted to 
meet the intellectual and social 
requirements of the students.”
Deed of Foundation, 1883
Our strategic plan 2021-20243
Our founding documents underpin our identity as an institution. They set out 
our purpose, the values we hold and how we govern ourselves. These include 
Thomas Holloway’s Deed of Foundation, the Act of Parliament that creates our 
legal identity and Statutes which regulate how we operate. We also recognise the 
significant influence of Elizabeth Jesser Reid, social reformer, anti-slavery activist 
and philanthropist who founded Bedford College, the first college for women, and 
was committed to equity for all in society. Inevitably, our founding documents are 
broad in the language they use, setting out general principles that have applied 
over the university’s history.
To help us each make decisions on a day-to-day basis, a strategy provides a 
bridge between our founding documents and the world in which we currently 
live. It sets out shorter-term ambitions and goals that will help us make a valuable 
contribution to society, whilst holding true to our principles.
At the heart of our institution lie principles of achieving academic excellence  
(in teaching and research), focusing upon the needs of our students and our wider 
society, whilst creating an environment in which we are all inspired to succeed.  
Our behaviours are driven by fairness and equity, innovation and freedom to 
explore new ideas and ways of thinking. Our last strategy (2013-2020) saw us 
become a top 20 university and, through modest student number growth,  
remain financially sustainable.  
Our new strategy, taking us to 2024, is organised around a focus on who the 
university serves – a diverse student body and a world that has urgent need of 
insights derived from research. 
Dame Margaret Hodge 
Chair of Council
Professor Paul Layzell DL 
Principal
Foreword
Contents
4 A bold vision for our future
5 What we want to achieve
7 Addressing the challenges and opportunities of our modern times 
8  Serving the higher education needs of students in an expanding  
London population
10  Expanding the horizons of all our students by building strong  
and sustainable international partnerships 
12  Addressing key issues of our modern time by developing our  
strengths in challenge-led research 
14  Enabling the success of our strategy through simplification  
and digitisation
16  Creating value through and for our people 
18  Key performance indicators 

Our strategic plan 2021-20244
Royal Holloway College (1886) merged with 
Bedford College (1849) in 1985, and today’s 
university is rooted in the purpose and ethos 
of our two original colleges, providing the 
foundations of the university we are today. 
The colleges combined their heritages of academic excellence, 
social justice, philanthropy and entrepreneurship, together with 
a shared tradition of challenging social and cultural norms by 
being among the first to open the doors to higher education for 
women, to form one university – now known as Royal Holloway, 
University of London. 
Royal Holloway’s history and origins in equality and social justice 
are a source of pride. Thomas Holloway set out in the College’s 
Deed of Foundation a vision that met the key access challenge of 
the day, the access of women to Higher Education. 
Our new strategic plan (2021-2024) considers how we can meet 
the needs of our modern times in terms of the provision of higher 
education and research-based innovation. By building on our well-regarded academic strengths, and by aligning to needs, for 
example in graduate employability, programme portfolio, access, 
civic influence, partnership and knowledge exchange, we can 
deliver on our purpose as a university. 
Our strategic plan has three strategic priority pillars: 
•   Serving the higher education needs of an expanding London 
population 
•   Expanding the horizons of all our students by building strong 
and sustainable international partnerships 
•   Addressing key issues of our modern time by developing our 
strengths in challenge-led research 
The world around us is undergoing a digital revolution, which is 
changing the economic and social environment. To thrive in this 
changing world the university must transform, and recognises the 
need to embrace digitisation of our education and operations. 
Underpinning the plan is a strong focus on managing our resources 
effectively, efficiently and sustainably. In doing so we protect the 
legacy of our founders and enable Royal Holloway to meet the 
modern needs of future generations. A bold vision   
for our future

Our strategic plan 2021-20245
Our vision as an institution is to cultivate an inclusive 
environment that supports excellence in teaching, research and 
student experience. Our last strategy (2013-2020) supported 
a mission of dual excellence in research and teaching. This was 
successfully delivered, evidenced by top quartile outcomes in 
the 2014 Research Excellence Framework and our place in the 
UK top 20 universities by 2020. Student number growth was 
achieved as planned (rising 17% over five years), improvements 
were made to our estate, a strong Law programme was 
introduced and we saw significant improvements in marketing 
and recruitment practice. 
Before the Covid-19 pandemic we were in the midst of 
developing a new 10-year strategy (2020-2030), but the major 
disruption and uncertainty caused across the Higher Education 
sector led to a pause following the national lockdown in March 
2020. As the university focused efforts on the immediate 
consequences of the pandemic and the unknown and potentially 
significant impacts on longer-term prospects, we embarked 
on the development of this three-year strategic plan to allow 
short-term actions to be aligned with the long-term success of 
the university, strengthening our dual excellence mission and 
maintaining financial sustainability. 
The new strategic plan is ambitious and, if successfully 
implemented, will bring about significant repositioning. 
Ambition and focus 
The focus of the new plan is on Education, Research and 
Financial Sustainability. 
The plan aims to create a more inclusive environment, to 
encourage more students from diverse backgrounds, particularly 
from the nearby London region, to feel able to access the 
education and opportunities we offer. It also provides the space 
for the university to grow in new academic areas and to expand 
opportunities as a result of the digital revolution. 
A priority is to develop strength in our relationships through new 
partnerships, both locally and globally. 
Our research intensity is a foundation for the university’s success 
and this underpins the education and environment we offer to 
students and staff. Traditionally we have focused on investigator-
led research and, whilst this remains key to our success, our 
ambition is to bring teams together in new configurations to 
enable challenge-led research and to strengthen the role the 
university can play in the development of our region, the UK  
and the world. What we want  
to achieve

Our strategic plan 2021-20246

Our strategic plan 2021-20247
Our strategic plan sets out what we will do over 
the next three years to position Royal Holloway 
towards long-term success in meeting the 
challenges of our modern times, by strengthening 
our dual excellence in teaching and research and 
ensuring financial sustainability. The plan outlines three core pillars, an ‘enabling’ 
fourth pillar, focusing on enhancing the way we 
work, simplifying our processes and introducing 
technology, where possible, to help drive 
improvement, ensure financial sustainability and 
support our academic objectives, and a fifth, to 
create the necessary staff environment. Addressing the challenges  and 
opportunities  of our modern times
Serve the higher education 
needs of an expanding  
London population1
Address the key issues 
of our modern time by 
developing our strengths in 
challenge-led research3Enable the success of 
our strategy through 
simplification and 
digitisation4Expand the horizons  
of all our students by 
building strong and 
sustainable international  
partnerships2We will
Create value through and for our people5
Our strategic plan 2021-20248
Pillar 1 of the strategic plan responds to the 
higher education needs and ambitions of an 
expanding population.  
By 2030, the population of students in London is projected to 
increase by 50%* and their needs are changing. These students 
are committed to their subject, but they also want to know what 
it will deliver for them next, in life beyond graduation. 
Some 50% of all young people go to university, and their needs, 
aspirations and backgrounds differ hugely. We need to modernise 
our offer, address awarding gaps, reconfigure our services and 
develop and improve how we support students academically and 
in terms of their wellbeing if we are to meet our responsibilities to 
serve these students from London, the UK and overseas. We will create the academic offer that will allow the university 
to respond to the demographic uplift, particularly in London, 
over the next decade, and then promote it effectively. To be in 
the best position to respond to the uplift we need to answer 
the profound and important questions about the elimination of 
awarding gaps for students from particular backgrounds and how 
to build on and adapt our approach to student wellbeing for a 
more diverse student body who are studying in different ways. Serving the higher education  
needs of students  in an  
expanding  London  population
*  Projected increase in students aged 18-24 domiciled in London between 2016-2030, Preparing for hyper-diversity: London’s student population in 2030, Access HE
Our strategic plan 2021-20249
Three projects in this pillar have been identified as priority projects for 2021/22;
Align teaching programme  
outcomes with Skills 4.0
  Our vision is to align undergraduate 
programmes with skills identified in the Skills 
4.0 initiative, created by Skills Development 
Scotland.* This involves tangible extraction of 
skills to provide a holistic view, as part of delivery 
of ‘learning, teaching and assessment’.
Building skills, experiences  
and opportunities for all
 Our vision is that 100% of first year students will 
be empowered to access work experience.  
We aim to develop first year experiences as part 
of the curriculum and improve engagement with 
vacancies as part of career planning. Inclusive education: accelerate 
progress on awarding gaps
 Internal analysis shows we are making progress 
on most of our awarding gaps, but addressing 
remaining awarding gaps is a priority focus.  
We will launch prizes in spring 2022 to generate 
ideas from staff to positively affect the awarding 
gaps both in their school and more widely.
Further initiatives focus on:
  Develop effective assessment 
approaches that measure students’ 
abilities regardless of their background
  Targeted student recruitment activities 
for the London market
  Improve education and support to 
commuting and community students  Develop strategic relationships  
with London boroughs
  Launching a new Department of Health 
Studies, and repositioning in other 
disciplines for their future success
*Skills Development Scotland in collaboration with the Centre for Work-based Learning (Strathclyde, RGU, Herriot-Watt)
Our strategic plan 2021-202410
In the last 20 years the number of international 
students coming to the UK has increased 
significantly, driven by developments in countries 
such as China and India.  
Many of these students have joined Royal Holloway, where we 
have been able to offer them a supportive learning experience 
on our campus. This has also helped to create a strong 
international dimension to our university that benefits all 
students and the local area. The strategic plan has a key focus 
on expanding our teaching, to meet the needs of students from 
both home and overseas. We plan to extend our postgraduate 
offer and, in particular, to cultivate our programmes to be more 
professionally-focused and practical, as well as enabling more 
students to study in London as well as Egham.We are opening up new options for international students, 
diversifying the range of study routes open to them. Partnering 
with Study Group we are enabling students to take an 
International Foundation Year or International Year One, to enter 
our degree courses well-prepared. We are working to expand 
our partnerships with overseas universities and, working with 
the University of London distance learning operation, we will 
increase the number of degrees we can provide via online study 
or University of London accredited Teaching Centres worldwide.
The focus of the projects in this pillar is to meet the changing 
needs of students from across the world, enabling them to  
take advantage of a Royal Holloway degree online, in person,  
in London and on our campus.Expanding  the horizons  of all 
our students by building strong  and 
sustainable  international partnerships

Our strategic plan 2021-202411
Immediate priorities:
 Expanded pathway programmes
   Developing our International Study Centre  
offer (ISC), in partnership with Study Group,  
to deliver new initiatives such as the 
International Year One and a Pre-Masters 
programme. A redesigned International 
Foundation Year begins in September 2022  
and other online options are being explored.
 London Graduate School 
  Students at our London campus will benefit 
from increased teaching space and services. 
Relevant courses will move to London (e.g. 
our MSc Project Management), and further 
improvements will ensure our London-based 
students enjoy the same great experience of 
those on our Egham campus.   Postgraduate taught portfolio refresh 
  We aim to align our portfolio better with market 
demand, identifying new course opportunities 
– like our new degrees in Health Studies – as 
well as existing courses where content changes 
could make them even more attractive.
 Distance Learning expansion 
  Working with University of London Worldwide 
and online education platform, Coursera,  
we are expanding our Distance Learning offer. 
Seven new degrees, in a range of subjects,  
will be launched during the period.
 Strategic partners overseas  
  Our vision is to develop a small number of 
strategic cross-university agreements, initially 
focusing on China and India.
Longer-term projects are:
  University of London  
Teaching Centre expansion
  Improving our  
Study Abroad offer   Entry route attainment  
monitoring 

Our strategic plan 2021-202412
Our research is at the heart of our purpose as a 
university and provides an underpinning for both 
the education that we offer students and the 
environment that we offer to staff.  
Royal Holloway has a proud record in the academic standing of 
the outputs of our research, and now our strategic intent is to 
expand further the importance of this research to the challenges 
of our modern times, benefiting society and positioning us to 
increase the enabling funding and partnerships. 
The plan for this pillar is to develop a number of significant 
thematic strengths which will be used to catalyse a university-
wide strength in challenge-led research, building on our 
traditional strengths in investigator-led research, energising our intellectual environment and driving influence in our locality and 
beyond. Four themes have been identified in topics where there 
is significant potential for challenge-led research and where 
there are institution-wide strengths to build on. 
The themes will provide a focus for networking, partnering 
and investment to create the right conditions to enable us to 
build strengths which are impactful, productive and contribute 
significantly to solving the key challenges facing society today, based 
on discoveries and insights at the forefront of intellectual endeavour. 
The outcome of this activity will be a research environment that 
encourages, supports and recognises contributions to advancing 
knowledge and exploiting these advances for societal benefit, 
enabled by an increase in research income.Addressing key issues  of our modern 
time by developing our strengths in 
challenge-led  research

Our strategic plan 2021-202413
StoryFutures
aims to transform the creative industries through use of 
immersive and digital technologies.Living sustainably 
addresses the challenges of climate change, biodiversity, 
food and energy security, infectious disease, inequalities 
in education, work and participation, political polarisation 
and resource consumption. 
Advanced quantum science  
and technologies 
will shape the second quantum revolution in which 
devices based on quantum rules are set to revolutionise 
information processing and sensing capabilities.Transformative digital technologies,  
security and society 
builds on our strengths in cyber security and aims to 
understand the role of AI and digital technology in daily 
life, on the economy, and workplace. 

Our strategic plan 2021-202414
To support the ambitions of our three strategic 
priorities, we have a fourth, enabling pillar. 
Its initiatives are focused on enhancing the way we work, 
simplifying our processes and introducing technology, 
wherever possible, to help drive improvement, ensure financial 
sustainability and support our academic objectives.
Pillar 4 currently has a programme of initiatives which, if 
successfully implemented over the next three years, will provide 
us with the opportunity to modernise the way we operate and 
further develop the important partnership between academic 
schools and professional services.Enabling the success of our strategy  
through simplification , digitisation  
and environmental sustainability

Our strategic plan 2021-202415
Immediate priorities are:
 Enquiry management 
  Our vision is to introduce a new system that 
can provide a streamlined service for student 
enquiries and case management; a single entry 
point accessed through several routes for 
student enquiries, with consistent service levels 
and enhanced functionality to enable students 
to self-serve.
 Environmental sustainability
  Finalise our detailed environmental strategy 
with ambitious targets Analytics and reporting 
  We plan to develop a technology platform 
to bring all university data together into one 
space, which will result in a consistent data 
model for Royal Holloway. Within the student 
data area, this will provide an infrastructure 
on which to, ultimately, bring student 
engagement data and learner analytics to life, 
to improve student learning outcomes and 
their experience.
Other initiatives focus on the opportunity to use what we have learnt from our response to the 
pandemic; consider how best to deploy our resources and how best to serve the needs of a changing 
and growing population of students, whilst maintaining quality services without increasing the 
overall cost of resources.
  Hybrid working  
for staff
  Academic  
administration 
  Modernising our approach  
to Personal Tutoring 
   Streamlining postgraduate  
admissions
 Curriculum Management
  Updating our approach to curriculum 
development to ensure our courses meet 
the needs of students is a key project for this 
pillar. Underpinning this improvement with 
a new Curriculum Management system and 
streamlined processes will enable us to refresh 
our offer and ensure it remains suitable for the 
needs of modern students.

Our strategic plan 2021-202416
It is only through the talent, dedication and 
commitment of our people that we are able to 
deliver exceptional outcomes for those we serve. 
Royal Holloway has enjoyed great reputation and success in the 
past and retaining that status will require embracing the changing 
world. Future success will be realised by applying existing strengths 
into new contexts and creating new strengths for emerging 
contexts. We will look to attract and nurture colleagues with 
potential to think differently and creatively in developing services 
and solutions that have relevance within the context of our shared 
goals. We will work to attract and build the skills and attributes 
that support the flexibility and agility necessary to respond to our 
changing environment. At the same time we will recognise that 
success takes many forms, and value those colleagues who are committed to improving and strengthening the core services and 
provisions on which potential can build.
We need to listen to, explore and build on differing perspectives 
if we are to genuinely value diversity and appreciate diverse 
voices. By authentically committing to this at all levels, colleagues 
will feel welcomed, included, valued and able to give their best. 
Highly-motivated and skilled leaders and managers will be crucial 
to the university delivering on our aspirations and creating the 
environment that enables colleagues to feel valued and thrive. 
Our processes will facilitate the collegiate working and foster ways 
of working which enable colleagues to deliver great outcomes 
for those we serve. Combined, our structures and processes will 
enable the institution to respond to changing circumstances and 
be agile in the face of new opportunities and challenges.Creating value  through  
and for our people

Our strategic plan 2021-202417
Within this overall aim there are five strategic goals:
  Shared purpose 
and engagement  
  A place for potential  
to thrive 
   Achievement through diversity  
and diverse perspectives 
    Confident and inspiring leadership 
and management 
  Aligned and enabling organisational 
structures and capability 
  

Our strategic plan 2021-202418
Key performance   
indicators 
Our plan outlines ambitious change to meet 
important strategic objectives. We aim to position 
the university to grow to 15,000 students and to 
increase research grant income by 75% by the end 
of the decade so that we will have the resources 
to underpin our academic ambitions.
We will monitor our progress and success in this positioning by 
keeping track of key performance indicators (KPIs). These focus 
on enabling us to understand where we are achieving success 
through our actions, so they are linked to a set of milestones.  
The milestones capture the key points in our strategic projects 
where the performance indicators will be impacted. 
Inclusion
Inclusion, access and participation are key drivers for our strategy 
- we want every student to succeed and meet their potential. Our 
work in this area is focused on the targets within our Access and 
Participation Plan. A reduction in awarding gaps between groups 
of students at the university is the highest priority in this area, but 
we also continue to work towards reducing gaps in access and 
progression to employment. 
Employability
Helping students achieve their potential includes supporting them 
in ways that help them achieve the careers they aspire to have. 
We have a strategic driver to increase the number of students 
achieving these careers, so an important KPI for us is focused on 
our action to increase those taking part in work experience early in 
their student lives. Challenge-led research
A key element of our strategy is to shift our emphasis in research 
towards ‘challenge-led’, responding to the challenges society faces 
now and into the future. Our KPIs here are focused on increasing 
our research funding to enable us to undertake more work in this 
area, and in particular increasing our funding from industry to 
develop more partnerships in our research.
Growth
Student numbers are growing and in particular, the number of 
students expected in London the number of students in London is 
projected to be over 50% higher by 2030 than it was in 2016  
(see p.8). In responding to the needs of these students - local, 
high-quality education in subjects they wish to study – we have a 
target to modestly increase our student numbers to around 15,000 
by 2029-30 with interim targets along the way. 
The key milestones for this achievement are the introduction of 
our new Department of Health Studies, a revitalised Business  
and Management offering and a focus on employability and  
skills development in our undergraduate offer. This is combined 
with a KPI to increase the number of students who make us their 
first choice. 
In addition, we are aiming to increase our overseas student numbers 
by adding to our pathway programmes, distance programmes and 
postgraduate taught students. Revitalising our postgraduate offering 
is a significant project within our portfolio that enables us to respond 
to student needs in the UK and overseas. 

Our strategic plan 2021-202419
Area Strategic target2019/20  
valuesTarget  
by 2023/24
Growth Number of Home (UK) undergraduates 6,984 7,999
Overseas students from pathway programmes 245 490
Distance Programmes headcount 1,787 3,100
Attractiveness Proportion of Home undergraduate students through clearing 27% 24%
Number of postgraduate taught programmes with more than 20 students 16 25
 
Challenge-led 
researchResearch income £17.2m £21.5m
Industry and commerce income from Research and Knowledge 
Exchange£2.5m £3.8m
 
Inclusion Students in select groupings achieving a 1st or 2:1 
Awarding gap between Black and White students 18% 7%
IMD Quintile 1 and 5 gap* 16% 12%
 
Employability Undergraduates benefitting from a work experience by start of Year 2 40% 100%
People Staff agreeing with the statement ‘I could explain to someone who 
didn’t work here what the university is trying to achieve’.72% 82%
Staff agreeing with the statement ‘I have a clear understanding about 
my role within the university’89% 94%
 
External focus Report on partnership development related to strategy Report  
annually
 
Investment Appointments of academic staff aligned to the strategy 91 FTEs
Investment in new strategic IT projects to improve efficiency of 
operations£3m p/a
Royal Holloway, University of London
Egham, Surrey, TW20 0EX
01784 434455
royalholloway.ac.uk
8556 02/22
