1 Saarland University in 2030
1.1 Guiding principles
Saarland University is:
} a high-performing campus university of excellence that has consistently implemented its ambitious goals and fulfils its roles and responsibilities for Saarland and its neighbouring regions.
} an attractive university with study programmes taught on campus, a stable number of students, innovative and digital teaching and learning formats, and an active culture of quality in teaching.
} an international European university with a unique focus on France and an above-average proportion of international students.
} a known centre for excellence in research, both in individual research and in cooperation with others – researchers, institutions and business and society.
} a driving force for innovation and technology transfer in Saarland and the Greater Region and one of the leading start-up universities in Germany.
} a respected source of impetus for science, business, politics and the general public, conscientiously fulfilling its social responsibilities with its Third Mission.
} a recognized institution for education, continuing professional develop- ment, science and research that has successfully implemented its digital transformation processes in all system-relevant areas.
} an attractive employer with a strongly developed gender- and diversity- sensitive university culture that is family-friendly, offering high-quality qualification and development opportunities for all employees.
}a pioneer in service-oriented administration with efficient science- supporting structures and a high service quality.
} a place that the members of Saarland University can shape together – students, academics, researchers and academic support staff.
FIGURE 2: Guiding principles on the path to Saarland University 2030
5
  1.2 Introduction | Background
This University Development Plan (UDP) presents the key lines of development and longer-term goals and measures for the future-oriented development of Saarland University in the years up to 2030 and beyond. The time frame also allows medium- and long-term goals and measures to be addressed.
The conceptual design and drafting of the 2030 University Development Plan took place during a period dominated by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and the outbreak of war in Ukraine, the effects of which are presenting societies around the world with huge and unprecedented challenges. During these difficult times, universities and external research and scientific institutions have been stepping up to fulfil their special roles and social responsibilities, making vital contributions to crisis management in close exchange with politics and society, including Saarland Univer- sity and Saarland University Medical Center.
As important and agile actors, it will continue to be the task of Saarland University, including its facul- ties, departments and institutions, to tackle the challenges of the future and live up to the univer- sity's responsibility for addressing socially relevant issues such as social change, digital transformation and climate change. This also includes training highly qualified responsible and European-minded people for the issues of the future who will apply
their skills professionally for the benefit of Saarland and its neighbouring regions.
Within the framework of the Objectives and Perfor- mance Agreement VI concluded between the federal state and the university for the years 2022 to 2025, the state government once again emphasized how highly it values the university's work. By providing a reliable financial framework, it has laid the necessary foundation for a longer-term univer- sity development plan which extends beyond the usual period of three years and will be accompanied by progressive updates to the Saarland higher education development plan and a state innovation strategy. In conjunction with the 'Future Contract for Strengthening Studies and Teaching in Higher Education' concluded between the federal and state governments, after many years dominated by financial restrictions and cutbacks until as recently as 2020, this once again opens up strategic scope for moderate growth and profile-strengthening further development to ensure the university remains competitive both nationally and interna- tionally over the coming years.
Implementing the goals and areas of action outlined in this university development plan requires suitable steering instruments which will be increasingly systematized to methodically support and mobilize
the strategic further development of the university (see also chapter 5.8). The overall goal is to consoli- date the previously rather generally defined development topics in close coordination with the faculties and university departments by formulating specific and, where possible, quantitatively measur- able goals and measures. To support the 2030 UDP, the faculties have outlined their longer-term goals and ideas for their future academic direction in faculty development plans (FDPs). On the basis of the UDP and FDP framework, the University Board will conclude an agreement with each faculty for the years between now and 2030.
6

development and campus life
1.3 Development goals on the path to Saarland University 2030
In its role as the only federal state university with historical French roots and a deeply embedded European focus, Saarland University holds a special importance and responsibility for future develop- ments in Saarland and the Greater Region as well as being a centre for research and innovation. The university fulfils this task by delivering excellence in research, both at the cutting edge and in terms of broadness, by offering diverse and attractive study programmes for interested students from Germany and abroad, by promoting technology transfer and business start-ups in the university environment, and last but not least, by providing attractive employment opportunities as an employer and training provider. As one of the largest employers in Saarland, the university also sees itself as a pioneer in offering employees good working conditions and acting in the interests of employees. Promoting a caring management culture (KODEX), it is commit- ted to supporting the maintenance and expansion of social structures and facilities as well as providing preventative health and health management services and initiatives. A diverse and culturally rich campus life is cultivated at all locations, ensured by close cooperation with the staff representative councils, the Gender Equality Officer, interest groups and other advisory bodies.
For Saarland University, fulfilling its social responsi- bility towards the federal state and its neighbouring
regions will remain a key priority over the coming decades, ensuring it will continue to live up to its growing importance as an educational institution and research centre. As a driving force for innova- tion and technology transfer, it will help to actively shape structural change in the state.
Both nationally and internationally, Saarland Univer- sity stands out for the high density and quality of external research institutions in the region with which it maintains very close relations, for example through numerous dual appointments and interdis- ciplinary research projects. These uniquely favour- able conditions open up significant opportunities for the systematic and targeted further develop- ment of Saarland University into a nationally and internationally visible centre for research and innovation, the basis for which is an active scientific alliance with a host of external research institutions in the region that has been cultivated for decades. Over the coming years, the aim is to further promote this idea through a joint location strategy with these external research institutions within the framework of a Saar Science Alliance (see chapter 3).
In addition to the close interactions with research partners in the region, Saarland University also maintains close relations with the other universities in Saarland, as reflected in the many joint study and
professional development programmes as well as preparatory courses. The university will continue to stabilize and expand its cooperation partnerships in this area, attaching particular importance to the further development of existing joint cooperation platforms.
Saarland University will continue to strengthen and expand its leading role in the area of international- ization by drawing on its long-standing and exem- plary cooperation with the universities of the Greater Region (UniGR) and its pioneering multilin- gual approach. This approach will be further pro- moted within the framework of its Transform4Europe (T4EU) European university alliance, which has been funded by the European Commission since 2020. In this context, the university's understanding of internationalization as a task that spans all aspects of teaching, research and administration, as well as the implementation of targeted measures to ensure international competitiveness is of particular importance. Saarland University's two international university alliances (UniGR and T4EU) will contribute greatly to this aim and provide additional impetus (see chapter 4).
7

  The university's strategic objectives are aimed at the systematic further development of its core fields to ensure a nationally and internationally competitive profile in teaching and research as well as at maintaining the diversity of content and methodol- ogies in its broad range of subjects and in promoting promising initiatives beyond the defined core profile fields. The main development goal in the medium- and long-term planning of the university's core fields is to achieve excellence and a leading international level or to consolidate this status.
In the years up to 2025, the university is therefore pursuing the ambitious goal of competing as a university of excellence through two successful clusters of excellence and an impressive overall concept. It is equally crucial for the university to closely link the successful development of scientific research excellence in its core fields with the further development of the university with regard to the breadth of its subjects and as an overall institution. This is also one of the key guiding principles that forms the basis for the present UDP 2030 and the university's future application for securing funding as a university of excellence. The objective is to structure the range of subject areas extending beyond the core fields in such a way that the individual areas are able to develop high-calibre research activities that are competitive in terms of
quantity and quality, both on a subject-specific and interdisciplinary basis, and to offer attractive study programmes. The aim is to distinguish the subjects and faculties of Saarland University with a funda- mental focus that extends beyond all subject boundaries and is geared towards dialogue and innovation. Socially relevant contributions will also promote and improve the public perception of the university's achievements in research, teaching and transfer.
The university is committed to the principle of gender mainstreaming in its structures, developing appropriate measures for ensuring a gender- sensitive university and scientific culture and systematically implementing equality in all areas (see chapter 5).
Saarland University's ambitious development goal in broadening its subjects is to develop the aspects of interdisciplinarity and internationality in such a way that they define the university's profile and are synonymous with Saarland University in research and teaching. This profile is complemented by the university's special importance as a driving force for innovation in the region, above all in its systematic focus on stimulating and promoting start-ups. By adopting these measures, the aim is for Saarland University to continue to play a pioneering role as a
successful start-up university in 2030. Together with external institutions and in close partnership with higher education institutions in Saarland and the region, Saarland University will help to define a new innovation focus in both the regional and national economy.
In order to implement the future developments outlined in the UDP, the participation of all members and member groups across subject, faculty and institution boundaries is required – from students to scientists and research support staff. Targeted digitalization of support processes geared towards the needs of users is a priority task, especially in the area of HR and financial management as well as in student, teaching and examination management. The same applies to the major task of structural development for the future. As part of a university site development plan which will be gradually implemented and aligned with the university's medium- and long-term priorities (see chapter 5), the premises, buildings and infrastructure in Saarbrücken and Homburg will be significantly improved and extended to ensure Saarland Univer- sity's long-term competitiveness.
8

development and campus life
1.4 People and community | University life
At our campuses in Saarbrücken and Homburg, people of all ages and from all over the world come together in all subject areas to exchange ideas and to learn, research, work and experience the univer- sity together. With its French roots and European spirit, the lively international community sets the university apart, lending it a unique flair. A friendly and supportive atmosphere flourishes with close ties both between subjects and between people, which has a positive influence on interdisciplinary coopera- tion and promotes a sense of belonging.
Further enhancing the quality of life for everyone on campus is a crucial element in ensuring the univer- sity's attractiveness and appeal as a place to study, work and conduct research. The university is investing in its greatest and most important resource by creating optimum conditions for its members, including a university culture that values a partnership approach in which moral civic duty is promoted and an environment that encourages people to value and care for each other. Individual boundaries and personal rights are respected and any transgression of boundaries is taken seriously and investigated, providing a protected space against the abuse of power and (sexualized) discrim- ination and violence. Against the backdrop of demographic change, the university is competing for students, employees and the best scientists in
the world. It is therefore a key priority to further improve these conditions in a planned and system- atic manner over the coming years and to further develop the university's campuses and premises in order to make them a modern attractive space and meeting place with ideal conditions for students, teachers, scientists and all employees.
Over the next few years, many things will change on the campuses: The new buildings which are cur- rently under construction or have just been built are tangible signs that a great deal of progress is already being made with regard to improving the condition of our buildings and facilities. The new Innovation Center, which is unique in its planned form, will provide space for students, researchers, prospective entrepreneurs and regional companies to creatively exchange ideas, network and develop and imple- ment new ideas. New and renovated buildings, such as the Center for Molecular Signaling (PZMS) in Homburg which is under construction and new spaces for the Faculty of Humanities and the university management, will provide a new work environment for students, scientists, lecturers and academic support staff and ensure good working conditions and a fresh new feel on campus. This development will further be promoted by new teaching and learning facilities, recreational areas and meeting places. The condition of the Mensa building
poses enormous challenges for the university to tackle over the next few years – in particular with regard to its great importance for university life as a central meeting place. Another key issue will be student accommodation on campus. New housing options will be created through the construction of new buildings.
The digital space also needs to be further developed drawing on the practical experience the university gained during the pandemic. While digital tools for studying, teaching and working from home are no substitute for carrying out these activities on campus, they have been a resounding success and create new forms of teaching, learning and working as well as communication and virtual meetings, which complement and enrich their in-person counterparts.
9

  Of great importance – especially in light of the restrictions experienced due to the pandemic – is the university's support for promoting a diverse and lively cultural programme on campus. Our goal is for events and venues such as the AStA Campusfest, the university cinema, concerts and theatre perfor- mances to become a shining advertisement for a university life and a campus that is bustling with life, including on weekends. Furthermore, our campuses must continue to be a meeting place for people from the region and internationally as lecture, conference and event locations. Numerous lecture series now attract a large audience, making the university visible and popular in Germany.
If you want to conduct research at the level of excellence, teach with passion or study successfully, you need good framework conditions that make it possible to achieve the right work-life balance and look after your health. In order to offer a flexible work environment that provides active support, the university has already implemented numerous measures. It was one of the first pilot universities to receive the family-friendly certificate ('audit fami- liengerechte Hochschule') in 2004. It continues to bear the golden seal and will continue its commit- ment to upholding these values. In view of the growing psychological stress experienced by students and employees these days, it is important
for the university to expand its psychological and psychotherapeutic counselling. With its close proximity to the athlete training and conference center of the Saarland Sports Federation, the University Sports Center is an elementary part of university life and plays a major role in the health and well-being of all members of the university, offering a wide range of activities. The university wants to maintain and further increase its attractive- ness as an appealing meeting and exercise space that enhances people's quality of life. This helps to open up spaces for exercising in urban areas and counteract the general lack of movement caused by generally sedentary activities in studies, teaching and the workplace. Last but not least, the university is stepping up its efforts to better bridge the 30 kilometres between its two campuses in Saar- brücken and Homburg, link the two campuses more closely and improve mutual accessibility.
To create a successful overall concept for a campus that offers an attractive quality of life, it is important to involve all actors at the university and all stake- holders – all members of the university should be able to participate and have their needs taken into account. This is something the university will be working on over the next few years.
10

development and campus life
On the path to UdS 2030, the university is setting itself ambitious goals in all areas:
 } studying and teaching
• Impress by offering attractive, sought-after and quality-assured study
programmes
• Systematicallypromotelearninginacademicteaching
• Providemodernandhigh-qualityservicesforstudentsandteachers
} research and transformation
• Externalfunding–increaseresearchactivities
• Bestminds/skills–promoteanddevelopacademicstaff
• Infrastructure–createanadequateresearchinfrastructure
• Transfer and business start-ups – further development of position as an innovation driver
• Excellenceasanopportunity–achievingexcellencestatus
} networking and cooperation
• Internationally attractive: win excellence-level students, scientists and
academics from abroad
• Internationallynetworked:expandandstrategicallyleveragepartnerships
• Internationally successful: optimally qualify graduates for the global labour market
} employment and structuring
• Implement digital transformation
• Modernizelibrariesascentralplacesforinformation,learningandwork
• Drivedevelopmentofcampusinfrastructure
• Increaseattractivenessasanemployer
• Strengthen gender- and diversity-sensitive family-friendly university culture • Furtherdevelopinternalfinancialmanagementandgovernancestructure
} development and campus life
• Activelyshapestructuralchangeinthefederalstate
• Developjointlocationstrategy
• Expandinternationaluniversityalliances
• Furtherdevelopcorefieldswhilemaintainingbroadsubjectdiversity • Structuretheuniversityasamodern,attractivemeetingplace
} reach and connect
• Embedsustainabilityinresearch,teachinganduniversityoperations
• Expandknowledgeandtechnologytransferaswellasscientific communication
• Actasasourceofimpetusfortheregion
FIGURE 3: UDP 2030 goal overview
11

 UdS 2030
studying and teaching
FIGURE 4:
Modern teaching and learning spaces will support the further development of teaching and learning support.
12

studying and teaching
FIGURE 5:
Overview teaching activities and study programmes (as at winter semester 2021/2022)
 17,000
students in total
 145
subject areas
24
certificates
(incl. certified individual courses)
 Law
Engineering sciences
Medicine
Teacher training Certificates
Human and Business Sciences
Bachelor/Master Computer Science
interdisciplinary studies international partnerships
consecutive
Business Science and Economics
Linguistics and Literature
History and Cultural Studies
undergraduate professional development Natural sciences state examination Mathematics
 46 % 12 %
22 % 20 %
from Saarland
from Rhineland- Palatinate
from other federal states
international students
   Teaching and studying
 Active quality management: system accredited since 2012
 Percentages by faculty
 HW: 24 % P: 18 % R: 17 % MI: 15 % M: 14 % NT: 12 %
   3,000
new students annually
 Education and Quality Assurance Division, Student Service Centre with Central Student Advisory Service and Admissions Office, Centre for Teacher Education,
Centre for Lifelong Learning,
Centre for Key Competencies and University Didactics
 Individual profile development:
classical range of study programmes corresponding to professional fields, supplemented by increasingly international and innovative programmes as well as professional development programmes geared to the market

  2 Teaching and studying
Saarland University's range of study programmes covers a broad spectrum of disciplines, degree types and target groups, offering a wide range of networking and innovation opportunities. Teaching and study programmes at the university are tradi- tionally characterized by a broadly anchored and active quality culture, which is based on the strong
2.1 Vision and guidelines
Saarland University is a modern university with study programmes taught on campus, a stable number of students and an actively practiced culture of quality. It sets itself apart with
—an attractive range of sought-after study programmes with a focus on quality
— innovative academic teaching
— modern and high-quality services for students
and teachers
The focus of the university development plan is on the strategic and quality-assured development of the portfolio of study programmes at the heart of
commitment and high level of problem-solving skills of those involved, thus contributing to the resilience of the university with regard to the diverse chal- lenges it faces. Demographic change and the possibilities opened up by digitalization are resulting in a period of great change for universities Germany- wide which Saarland University is proactively and
constructively shaping. The development goals are reflected in the further development of the range of study programmes offered, creative innovation in teaching and in a service culture for students and teaching staff.
Saarland University, providing the basis for securing student numbers.
The requirements for services and overarching topics in the area of teaching and learning are derived from the programmes offered, which also support and shape the further development of the study programmes, in particular:
— Student marketing
—Structuring of university admissions and the
orientation phase
— Services for teaching staff and students — Digital teaching
— Additional qualifications / career service — University didactics
— Professional development
— Quality management
— Teaching and examination management — Statistics
— Legal information
14

studying and teaching
2.2 Current status
Analysis
FIGURE 6:
SWOT analysis for teaching and learning
 Strengths:
Attractive and diverse range of study programmes High quality of studies and active quality culture
Strongly networked and highly committed staff in close contact with students
Intrinsic interest in development and high problem-solving skills
 Weaknesses:
Complex study programme structure
Teaching spaces (availability, use) in need of development, not enough student workplaces
In some areas structures and processes still need to be established
Prioritization of resource deployment needs to be developed
 Opportunities:
Digitalization of teaching and study management Strong international dimension
Strengthening of scientific professional development High level of innovation
Only university in Saarland with a high standing in politics and society
Addressing new target groups
 Risks:
Digitalization: funding/customization, IT security, requirements dynamics
Demographic development is challenging with regard to student numbers (and staff recruitment); intensified by return to 9-year grammar school model in Germany
Changing legal and political requirements Highly project-related availability of funds
15

  General framework
In the coming years, demographic developments in Germany and especially in Saarland will lead to a significant reduction in the number of people eligible to enter higher education. To increase the number of prospective students and ensure that the number of students at least remains stable, the university is focusing on the proactive development of the study programmes offered as well as system- atically addressing and expanding its target groups (in particular by further opening up access to the university, targeted recruitment measures and internationalization). A particular challenge is the return to the 9-year grammar school model in Saarland, which on the one hand may result in a substantial reduction in funding due to the delayed Abitur graduation year in Saarland but on the other hand may offer potential for structuring the transi- tion in a profitable way. The university is therefore focusing on designing the implementation of the transition in close coordination with other higher education institutions in Saarland.
The longer-term consequences of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic are not yet fully foreseeable. In addition to positive effects, particularly with regard to accelerated digitalization, negative effects on student progress and success cannot be ruled out and may also have an impact over the next few
years. To keep these negative effects to a minimum, special support measures for students are required.
In order to sustainably position the positive aspects of digitalization in teaching and studies and leverage their potential, a number of key steps need to be devised for the coming years, also in view of the Online Access Act: The digitalization of studies must be further advanced in a targeted manner; the digital elements of teaching are to be structured, systematically quality-assured and purposefully embedded in regular teaching. Their adoption into regular teaching will help to further develop the existing system in an innovative way. It is vital that the skills of employees are continuously developed via appropriate training programmes in advance and on an ongoing basis as well as to ensure personal- ized learning to meet the needs of students. In addition, an essential basis for this idea is of course an appropriate technical infrastructure including availability of equipment.
In addition to these basic framework conditions, there are a number of specific factors relating to the teaching and study programme situation at Saarland University:
— The currently existing range of study programmes —The system-accredited quality management
system for teaching and studying
— The bilateral agreement between the university and the state within the framework of the federal-state 'Future Contract for Strengthening Studies and Teaching in Higher Education'
— The BMBF (Federal Ministry of Education and Research) projects for the systematic further development of teacher training under the Teacher Training Quality Initiative funding pro- gramme
— The BMBF projects for the further development of digital teaching as part of the Strengthening University Teaching Through Digitalization funding programme and the Federal-Länder Initiative for the Promotion of Artificial Intelli- gence in Higher Education
— The introduction of the SIM system as a univer- sity-wide campus management system
16

studying and teaching
2.3 Goals and measures
Goal: Impress by offering attractive, sought-after and quality-assured study programmes
The University will continue to pursue its strategic development goals with regard to its study pro- gramme portfolio and will reformulate these goals as follows:
— Saarland University offers classical study pro- grammes corresponding to professional fields that meet nationwide standards and are char- acterized by a special focus on quality, need and demand.
— Saarland University has a high level of sought- after international study programmes (also with regard to the language of instruction). [Further details about the goal can be found in chapter 4.3].
— Saarland University sets itself apart with innova- tive study programmes relating to issues of the future. They address the future challenges in science, business and society, which often have to be answered in an interdisciplinary way, and are geared towards the ideas and expectations of future students.
— Saarland University is clearly positioned with digitally supported professional development programmes that are practice-oriented and
therefore attractive to the target groups and marketable. The CEC Saar (Continuing Educa- tion Center Saar), which is jointly supported by the htw saar, pools the activities of the two uni- versities in scientific professional development.
— Through its portfolio of study programmes, the university achieves the following qualification goals (outcome-related): research focused, inter- disciplinary character, international focus, digital skills, individual qualification profiles, practice- oriented, responsibility.
— The following quality goals are achieved in the study programmes offered (process-related): academic success with recognized degree, profile strengthening, demand-based, geared towards needs, smooth study pathways to achieve qualification goals.
Measure: Proactive and multi-perspective develop- ment of study programmes
In the Education and Quality Assurance Division, a study programme development workshop will be established with the faculties, study-relevant central or interfaculty institutions and student representa- tives based on the study programme-related goals for each academic year. It will incorporate plans and initiatives for the further development of the study
programmes offered and the perspectives of pro- spective students, students, graduates and the (assumed) future expectations of graduates from science, business and society will be discussed. Due to the necessary planning lead time, a proposal will then be devised for adjusting the study programmes offered for the academic year after next. The underlying perspectives and framework conditions for the longer-term development of the study programmes offered are:
— Saarland University takes the study reforms that are being planned or implemented nationwide as an opportunity to further develop its study programmes in light of the requirements of society and the university's qualification goals within the financial framework available for this purpose.
—Teacher training is being sustainably further developed based on the results achieved within the framework of the Teacher Training Quality Initiative. Its continuation as a modularized state examination as opposed to a complete conver- sion to the Bachelor's-Master's structure is also being reviewed in coordination with the federal state; scientifically underpinned subject didac- tics will be established to a greater extent than before at the university.
17

  — Saarland University is continuing to develop sought-after subjects in a resource-conscious manner and uses available teaching capacities in subjects with fewer students in a targeted manner to increase the attractiveness of study programmes.
— The medium-term target for study programmes is at least 20 first-semester students (cumulative across subject types and school types); special strategic interests of the university are taken into account when considering the target for a specific study programme.
— The following transdisciplinary topics are to be visibly and broadly embedded in the range of programmes offered at Saarland University to enable all graduates of the university to acquire the corresponding skills: Europe, digital / artifi- cial intelligence, sustainability, entrepreneurship.
— To develop innovative study programmes and support student-centred learning, Saarland University will create targeted fields of experi- mentation via test models and pilots. This includes Open Badges and microcredentials which complement certificates and study pro- grammes as the standard formats for the programmes offered.
— Saarland University will create attractive and transparent incentive structures and conditions for its degree programmes as well as for its scientific professional development programmes. The development of the study programme portfolio will be based on the current regional and supra-regional needs of business, govern- ment and society. The objective is to fulfil the educational mission of higher education insti- tutions and enable flexible access educational and advancement biographies.
Ind icators
The university will strive to achieve the following indicators in the period up to 2030, including on the basis of the measurement criteria in the 'Future Contract for Strengthening Studies and Teaching in Higher Education':
— The total number of students is to remain at around 17,000, even taking into account the contrary demographic development.
— A significant increase in the calculated capacity utilization in underutilized subject areas (below 60 percent) compared to the status quo.
— Solid graduate data, including state examinations, and well over 2,000 successful graduates per year.
—Fulfilling the defined qualification goals and quality targets.
Measure: Sustainably ensuring the quality of the study programmes via the system-accredited quality management system for teaching and learning
Saarland University devised its quality management system for teaching and learning by implementing the Bologna Reform and has since been developing it systematically. It explicitly covers all of the study programmes offered by the university, i.e. it is not limited to Bachelor's and Master's programmes. The further development of the quality management system will continue to be inherent in the system and will be based on the agreed principles:
— Participatory and integrated understanding of quality. The members of the university will be involved in the quality development process; quality aspects are an integral part of all deci- sions relating to teaching and learning.
— Principle of subsidiarity. The actors at the indi- vidual levels of action will be given decision- making responsibility for quality in teaching and learning, supported by the university's central quality management body (represented by the Quality Office).
18

studying and teaching
— Principle of informed decision-making. Deci- sions will be made in light of comprehensive knowledge of the situation; appropriate and quality-related information bases will be taken into account at the appropriate aggregation level.
— Systematic exchange following the principle of the quality control loop. Quality assurance and development measures will be devised and implemented by means of systematic exchange between the involved actors at and between the different levels of action (subject, faculty, institution, university); the steps of the quality control loop (plan – do – check – act) are followed.
The quality management system for teaching and learning pursues the goal of agility and being highly solution oriented in order to make the necessary contribution to securing and further developing the quality of the study programmes offered. The quality management system will be measured against this goal; it will continue to be quality assured itself via the system accreditation.
The main goals of the short- and medium-term further development of the quality management system for teaching and learning (QMS) are:
— The QMS is future-proof, i.e. it is designed to be sustainable across the board (sustainability),
adapts to changing internal and external influ- ences (agility), it is guaranteed to function con- tinuously, transparently and independently of individuals across the board (person-indepen- dent) and is communicated accessibly and in a manner appropriate to the target audience (accessibility).
— The interface between the QMS and strategy development has been strengthened so that strategy development with regard to teaching and learning is quality-oriented and the key data on teaching and learning are used as an output- oriented, university-wide steering instrument.
— The QMS has a systematically developed set of instruments specifically relating to teaching. This includes, in particular, guidelines for modern, demand- and skills-oriented teaching supported throughout the university as well as explicitly addressing the special features of digital and innovative teaching methods.
Ind icator
The indicator is the continuous system accreditation of the quality management system for teaching and learning. This requires successful re-accreditation and thus an extension beyond the current accreditation period which is valid until 30 September 2026.
Goal: Systematically promote learning in academic teaching
While the range of study programmes and certifi- cates sets the structural framework, the academic teaching under the responsibility of the professorial staff fulfils this framework or goes beyond it by offering additional teaching activities. Teaching thus forms the core of students' academic educa- tion and is increasingly to be thought of in terms of learning by adopting a student-centred approach, contributing significantly to achieving the univer- sity's qualification goals. The university's academic philosophy includes striving to ensure develop- ment, which also encompasses the transfer of knowledge through teaching and assessment of the acquired skills. Key aspects of the further development of teaching beyond the basic subject knowledge are:
—Research-oriented teaching. In addition to imparting knowledge in the narrower sense, involving students in the processes and practice of research is a key task of teaching. While a research-oriented teaching approach is thus a matter of course, when it comes to practical implementation it is an important development goal for good teaching and of great importance for ensuring high-quality study programmes.
19

  This includes the conscious integration of the latest internal and external research findings into teaching and directly introducing students to research themselves – for example, through appropriate assignments in courses.
—Digital teaching. During the COVID-19 pan- demic, the digitalization of teaching was ramped up substantially over a short period of time, significantly advancing the digital trans- formation. With the first effects beginning to emerge in terms of scope and quality, it will have a huge impact on teaching conditions (including the creation and use of open educa- tional resources with open licensing of materi- als), learning, assessment and the future teaching and development of skills. For the university, there is a specific requirement to develop its 'hybrid model' for the targeted promotion of learning via digital teaching integrated into attendance-based teaching and a constructive combination of the various learning settings as well as to create the conditions for success, including designing teaching-learning spaces that are geared towards the future.
— International teaching. The increasing interna- tional nature of study programmes (cf. study programmes conducted in English, double degree programmes), international student
exchanges via established individual programmes (primarily Erasmus+ operated by the EU), university alliances and in particular the low- threshold connection possibilities offered by digital teaching will result in a strong increase in internationalization in teaching and an extend- ed space for learning.
— Diversity-sensitive teaching. Due to the highly interconnected structure of the study pro- grammes and the resulting polyvalent courses, the course participants are often enrolled on different study programmes and also differ in a number of other ways. This heterogeneity results from the internationalization of the university, more flexible university access and the general diversification of society, manifest- ing itself in different needs and priorities for promoting successful learning.
— Gender-sensitive teaching. A gender-sensitive perspective of the respective discipline allows for critical examination of the history and development of the subject area. In addition to the content-related dimension, gender in teach- ing also relates to teaching methods as well as gender-sensitive interaction between lecturers and students, both in courses and when providing advice, during subject- and study- related consultations, when organizing studies
and in didactics. The inclusion of gender aspects promotes the development of gender awareness.
Measure: Development of guidelines for academic teaching
The further development requirements for aca- demic teaching outlined above and requirements which will be formulated in the future are geared towards promoting innovative learning-oriented teaching. Drawing on the academic discourse and discussions in the Quality Audit network, the university is developing guidelines for academic teaching using a participatory process in order to provide its lecturers with a common orientation framework for teaching. As part of this process, it is reflecting on its experiences with the large-scale switch to online or hybrid teaching due to the COVID-19 pandemic implemented from summer semester 2020, thus building on its proposals for the further development of digital teaching.
20

studying and teaching
Ind icator
The indicator is a set of guidelines for academic teaching that have been developed in a participa- tory manner and coordinated via the relevant bodies, including appropriate assessment proce- dures with regard to their conceptual fit and empirical effectiveness; the target date is the second half of 2023.
Measure: To provide scope for the creative power of academic teaching
The creative power of academic teaching was impressively demonstrated by the way in which teaching- and study-related constraints were over- come during the COVID-19 pandemic. This achieve- ment was thanks to the extraordinary commitment, high sense of responsibility and creativity of all those involved. Scope should be given to leverage this creative power for the sustainable further development of teaching, in particular digital and innovative teaching, in order to systematically promote learning in line with the guidelines.
Its practical implementation, which is ultimately dependent on the individual lecturers in construc- tive cooperation with the students, will be sup- ported by the following individual measures:
— Promote the generation of ideas for innovative teaching and establish spaces for experimenta- tion (literally and in the wider sense)
— Highlight best practices for innovative teaching (also via awards) and promote their transfer (e.g. by providing necessary tools)
— Encourage active participation of students in teaching
— Further development of university teaching methodologies and didactics tailored to target groups in line with the guidelines
— Base appointments on guidelines for academic teaching
— Further development of specifications for teach- ing commitments with regard to innovative teaching
— Offer modern teaching and learning spaces
For digital teaching, the BMBF project Digital Teach- ing Plug-in (DaTa-Pin) has already outlined a develop- ment framework in which existing digital teaching, learning and examination formats are evaluated and new formats are developed in cooperation with lecturers and examiners with the aim of sustainably anchoring scientifically underpinned best practices that work well in practice at the university.
Ind icator
The measure serves to further advance the quality of teaching and in particular to make a contribution to achieving the qualification goals. The following indicators can thus be used:
— the fulfilment of the university's qualification goals
— the extent to which the guidelines have been implemented and the level of innovation achieved in teaching based on suitable data collection tools, drawing on existing approach- es to measuring innovation in teaching
— student satisfaction as measured by teaching evaluations and teaching staff satisfaction with the quality of teaching and learning as mea- sured by teaching staff surveys.
21

  Goal: Provide modern and high-quality services for students and teachers
In the Studierendenservice@UdS project in 2021, a vision was developed for student services and especially for the welcome service in teaching and learning which was confirmed by the university's committees and bodies.
On this basis, the university formulated its guide- lines for student and teacher services by expanding the content of the four underlying dimensions:
— Services. The services offered are geared to the needs of national and international applicants, students and teaching staff; digitalization and automation are used in a targeted manner in process flows and in information and communi- cation channels, taking into account the re- quirements of the Online Access Act. Services are always further developed in a precise and target group-oriented manner and in line with the dynamics of the university's development.
— Quality. High-performance and quality-oriented student, teaching and examination manage- ment contributes to the achievement of the university's qualification goals and quality objectives, thus specifically contributing to a successful start to students' study programmes,
the progression of their studies and their graduation.
—Communication. Direct contact persons give the university a human face; its service facilities are easily accessible and communicate in a target-group and service-oriented manner. Communication is used proactively and makes appropriate use of the range of personal and digital communication channels.
— Diversity. The campus culture is open-minded, diverse, gender-sensitive and promotes a culture of inclusion and equality; any form of discrimi- nation or transgression of boundaries will not be tolerated. Support is provided for groups with special needs, in particular families and single parents, students or lecturers with health impairments or chronic illnesses, international students and lecturers as well as people who need special guidance or support due to their individual circumstances.
The priority development task for student and teaching services is therefore to provide a broad service culture with a systematic focus on target groups based on robust, effective and efficient processes.
22

studying and teaching
Measure: Develop services for specific target groups
Access to services is designed to be as low-threshold as possible for all target groups; to achieve this, the following specific measures are being implemented:
—The university is establishing a front office covering all topics as the first point of contact for prospective students, applicants and students with the aim of addressing their information and service enquiries as far as possible and, in the event of a specific need for advice, to facilitate contact with the relevant other service offices. Interaction can take place in person, by phone, e- mail or through other digital channels.
— Teacher training will be further developed on the basis of the projects that will run until the end of 2023 within the framework of the Federal-Länder Teacher Training Quality Initia- tive programme and the content-related and structural development inputs (which extend beyond specific services) that it provides; this also includes the targeted further development of the Centre for Teacher Education.
— On the basis of a positive feasibility study, the two central institutions, the Centre for Lifelong Learning and the Centre for Key Competencies
and University Didactics, will be merged to form a joint scientific successor centre whose task will be to promote the further development of teaching and to create specific further develop- ment offers for students, teaching staff and students with non-enrolled status (Gasthörer) according to needs. This includes, in particular, (certified) further development opportunities in the area of core skills and university didactics.
— The university attracts new target groups for study programmes through targeted recruit- ment measures based on a location marketing programme that is jointly supported in Saarland and through the further development of its advisory services, in particular via the Central Student Advisory Service. Special attention is paid to students from families without an academic background, who are encouraged to study through supportive measures, as well as to international students. In addition to intensi- fied marketing measures for students in the target country and targeted participation of Saarland University in rankings (also interna- tionally), active support for prospective stu- dents should already start from their first contact with Saarland University. For example, in addition to the central service offices, person- al support should be provided by Saarland
—
University ambassadors or mentors regarding questions about applications, studying, life in Germany and Saarbrücken/Homburg, etc.
Further new target groups will be addressed following coordination with the federal state and based on relevant state regulations by simplified access for alternative higher educa- tion entrance qualifications (cf. subject-specific or professionally qualifying degrees or degrees from abroad), thus further opening up access to the university. The academic success of these target groups will be supported by their explicit inclusion in university services.
The university is increasingly focusing on its various target groups (first-year students, students from families without an academic background, prospective Master's degree stu- dents, students with a migration background, international students, etc.) with regard to designing and structuring the orientation phase and commencement of studies. This entails responding to diverse requirements for (digital) study-related information and the welcome service as well as different needs with regard to skills development, further qualifications and orientation, for example via mentoring.
—
23

  Ind icators
Indicators are:
—target group-specific satisfaction with the services for students and teaching staff, which is regularly surveyed using suitable evaluation instruments
— the fulfilment of the university's quality goals
— more students with alternative higher educa-
tion entrance qualifications
Measure: Establish efficient processes
Efficient processes serve as the basis for providing
the services which are
— target group-oriented and thus defined from the perspective of the respective service recipi- ents
— encompass the underlying process chain as far as possible (from enquiry to result)
— robust and thus resistant to errors and incom- pleteness in practice, external disturbances, delays, etc.
— efficient through the simplest possible regula- tions and targeted digital process design
A strong development driver for this process is the introduction of the SIM system as a campus man- agement system used across higher education institutions in Saarland under the leadership of Saarland University, which aims to establish quality- oriented standards, increase the quality of service for students and employees, reduce the administra- tive workload and transfer best practices between universities. The SIM system is already in productive operation at the university in the area of student management (applications/admission, student administration); the switchover in the area of teaching and examination management and thus the transfer to regular operations should be com- pleted by the end of 2023.
Ind icator
Indicators are the introduction of the SIM system and its functional development in regular opera- tion, which are to be tracked via regular evaluations in the form of process analyses combined with user evaluations.
24

 UdS 2030
research and transformation
   FIGURE 7:
At both Saarland University locations – the Homburg Campus and the Saarbrücken Campus – attractive new spaces for research will be created as well as for cooperation with industry.
25

FIGURE 8:
Research and Technology Transfer at a glance (data as of 31 December 2021)
 External funding 2021
74 million
euros
 Numerous prestigious science awards, including
23 ERC grants
12 Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prizes
1 Alexander von Humboldt Chair of Artificial Intelligence
   314
current DFG projects
of which collaborative projects:
3 SFB, 5 TRR, 5 GRK 2 research groups
25 ongoing projects in Horizon 2020 und 14 projects in Horizon Europe
134 ongoing government-supported projects
   Research and technology transfer
 EXIST Entrepreneur University
Ranked among the top 10 higher education institutions providing support for start-ups in the Gründungsradar since 2013
> 450 start-ups since 1995
120 supported start-up ideas p.a.
12 active shareholdings via IT-Inkubator GmbH and WuT GmbH
2 start-up centres, development of the Innovation Center
 Career Center
'next' campus fair and 'next digital' online career fair with 158 exhibitors and 4,640 participants, career portal with over 2,500 internship and job offers per year, events programme, advisory services, support for international students
 650
patent applications in total
250
inventions exploited in total
120
technology licenses issued
 531
current contract research projects

research and transformation
3 Research and technology transfer
3.1 Vision and guidelines
— As a location for cutting-edge research, Saar- land University draws students from all over the world and is highly attractive to scientists and researchers in all qualification phases. This is reflected in steadily improved ratings in national and international rankings and the acquisition of prestigious external funding projects, for exam- ple individual DFG projects and collaborative research centres, ERC grants and science prizes.
— The core research fields of Computer Science, NanoBioMed and Europe are supplemented by original and future-oriented research projects at an appropriately broadly oriented university with visible high-performance individuals.
— In constructive collaboration between the various disciplines at the university, research topics are addressed in their entire breadth and consis- tently tackled in an interdisciplinary manner. Saarland University has established and actively practices its Open science strategy.
—External research institutions and Saarland University cooperate closely in the Saar Science Alliance. By sharing equipment platforms, libraries, IT and other research infrastructures, this creates a synergy-promoting environment for sustainable, future-oriented research.
— External funding of researchers who are simulta- neously affiliated with Saarland University and an external research institution within the Saar Science Alliance should be reflected in the university statistics.
— Knowledge and technology transfer is clearly defined as a task of Saarland University (chapter 6). As one of Germany's leading start-up uni- versities characterized by a culture that promotes entrepreneurship, Saarland University takes up ideas and issues from society and business and offers scientific findings as answers.
— The further development of Saarland University would be accelerated by achieving the status of a university of excellence, building on two clus- ters of excellence in computer science and life sciences, offering the opportunity to set the direction beyond 2030.
27

3.2 Current status
Analysis
FIGURE 9:
SWOT analysis for research and technology transfer
 Strengths:
Acquisition of external funding
Saarland Informatics Campus (SIC)
Pharma Science Hub (PSH)
Creation of Käte Hamburger Kolleg
Acquired research buildings and acquired large- scale research equipment
Targeted appointment policy
Traditionally strong transfer and start-up culture Programmes for junior researchers Interdisciplinary collaboration
 Weaknesses:
Insufficient research spaces available
Coordinating role rarely held in EU collaborative projects
Expandable research data management
Low level of participation in scientific advisory and review panels
 Opportunities:
Increase number of ERCs
Saarland University Innovation Center
Core facilities umbrella concept
Saar Science Alliance consisting of Saarland University, UKS and external research institutions
Saarland University and UKS joint location strategy Open science strategy
Application for Cluster of Excellence and University of Excellence
Proposed transformation fund of the federal state for structural change in Saarland
 Risks:
High dependence on fixed-term subsidies
Tension between basic funding and external funding
Structural disadvantages compared to external research institutions
Open access costs
Start-up and investment willingness dependent on economic climate
Few research-intensive companies in the Greater Region
Huge competition to be faced in the excellence strategy
28

research and transformation
General framework
By continuously improving its productivity, efficiency and handling of limited resources, Saarland Univer- sity is competing at the national and international level in close alliance with external research institu- tions. Through scientific cooperation with interdisci- plinary, cross-subject research associations and a joint location strategy between Saarland University and the Saarland University Medical Center (UKS) as well as external research institutions, the first steps have been taken towards a scientific alliance. Operating as the Saar Science Alliance, it would be able to pool key regional location factors to pro- mote the innovation climate in Saarland and at the very least mitigate the structural disadvantages of Saarland University and UKS if not compensate for them. External research institutions have seen a steady improvement in their basic funding through the federal government's Pact for Research and Innovation which stipulates a binding budget increase until 2030, thus ensuring sustainable plan- ning certainty for them. In contrast, the university (like most German universities) suffers from high levels of structural underfunding in teaching and research. During the same period, therefore, Saar- land University had to make increasing efforts to acquire external funding. Although this ensured re- search development at the university, it made the uni- versity heavily dependent on fixed-term programmes.
In the area of computer science, cooperation with the two Max Planck Institutes (MPI for Computer Science, MPI-INF; MPI for Software Systems, MPI- SWS), the German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI) and the CISPA-Helmholtz Center for Information Security is to be expanded in such a way that the Saarbrücken computer science loca- tion promotes the strength of the location not only in terms of its size, but above all in terms of its degree of integration.
The Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz Center for Informatics (LZI) also contributes to the visibility of the computer science location. The NanoBioMed core research field is distinguished by the close and continuous coopera- tion of the natural, engineering and life sciences with the external research institutions of the Helmholtz Association (Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland, HZI-HIPS), the Leibniz Association (Leibniz Institute for New Materials, INM), the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft (Fraunhofer Institute for Non-Destructive Testing, IZFP; Fraunhofer Institute for Biomedical Engineering, IBMT; the joint new Center for Sensor Intelligence, ZSI) and the Center for Mechatronics and Automation Technology (ZeMA). To complement this effort, the university should seek to establish an external research institution in the field of medicine at the Homburg campus.
Saarland University also strives to achieve a leading national and international reputation in the field of European research. Based on its German-French tradition and its long-standing successful European focus, Saarland University aims to establish itself as Germany's leading centre for European studies. The establishment of an interdisciplinary Cluster for European Research (CEUS) at Saarland University and the appointment of additional professors in European political science and sociology has already strength- ened the university's focus on Europe. Another mile- stone on this path will be the establishment of a Käte Hamburger Kolleg dedicated to cultural practices of reparation.
Further approvals of national and international funding lines for scientifically oriented European research (also by acquiring an external research institution) should further increase the level of in- ternational appeal.
29

  3.3 Goals and measures
As researchers and the research environment largely determine the success of research, Saarland Univer- sity is focusing its strategic development plan on the following five areas:
— Strengthening externally funded activities (strate- gic goal: External funding).
— Investing in the best minds /skills (strategic goal: Best minds /skills).
— Providing a modern infrastructure for research (strategic goal: Research infrastructure).
— Promoting transfer and business start-ups (strate- gic goal: Transfer and start-ups).
an innovation driver for the economic development of Saarland.
Short-term measures
— Researchers from different disciplines will be brought together in a targeted manner (via matchmaking and networking) to initiate further interdisciplinary research goals.
— Through performance-based funding, Saarland University is stepping up its efforts to initiate new individual projects and Saarland University- coordinated collaborative projects under the Horizon Europe framework programme and programmes operated by national funding agencies and to extend ongoing projects. At the same time, incentives will be created for scien- tists to participate more in national and interna- tional advisory and review bodies.
— Increase the number of outstanding individual funding awards from the European Research Council, the DFG, the Volkswagen Stiftung and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.
— Continuation of the successful role played by the university's internal funding lines – Research Investment Programme and Start-up Funding
for Research Ideas – in the preparation and implementation of large research projects.
— Continuation of successful applications for major instrumentation and large-scale facilities within the framework of Art. 91b and Art. 143c of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany (GG).
Ind icators
— Individual research services.
— External funding ratio.
— Number of approvals of collaborative projects, research prizes, individual awards.
—Visibility of individual research achievements and appropriate level of external funding per professorship and department.
— Number of large-scale items of equipment ap- proved.
— Excellence as an opportunity Excellence as an opportunity).
(strategic
goal:
Strategic goal: External funding
Saarland University aims to increase its research
activities over the coming years and is therefore striving to improve the framework conditions for researchers. Energy will also continue to be dedi- cated to promoting basic research and interdisci- plinary networking. The plan is thus to create a solid basis for application-oriented research and for sustainably strengthening the university in its role as
30

research and transformation
Medium-term measures
— In addition to the three research facilities already approved, three further research facilities (Art. 91b GG) will be acquired by 2030.
— Develop and expand support and incentive mea- sures for individual and collaborative research: In the area of research, funding guidance is being expanded as a support measure and the possibili- ties for receiving internal start-up funding from the university are being expanded in the Re- search Committee.
—Researchers at Saarland University are moti- vated via incentive systems to actively partici- pate in committees of national and international research and external funding organizations as part of their official duties in order to play a role in defining future research fields. University-wide performance-based funding allocations will be initiated or intensified as incentive systems and the scope of faculty-specific teaching responsibili- ties will be reduced according to the amount of time involved (see chapter 5.9).
—Saarland University has continuously ranked among the top 40 universities with the highest level of external funding in the DFG Funding Atlas. The aim of the above-mentioned measures is to
consolidate this already outstanding position and to improve it in the long term.
Ind icators
— Number of research facilities approved.
— Number of research members in subject-specific review panels and governing bodies of the DFG, the German Science and Humanities Council, the European Research Council and other research-related bodies.
— Ranking results, in particular the DFG Funding Atlas.
Strategic goal: Best minds /skills
Academic staff and researchers are the 'capital' of Saarland University. Promoting and further develop- ing the skills of academic and research staff, expand- ing support services and optimizing the administra- tive service focus are therefore key. In order to sus- tainably secure and expand the research strength of Saarland University, it is important to systematically support and promote junior researchers and newly appointed professors as early as possible. The following measures are designed to ensure this:
Short-term measures
— The university will continue its targeted appoint- ment policy with a particular focus on the needs of the university. The university will continue to attach importance to joint appointments with external research institutions in the region and will strengthen these links through active engagement in the Saar Science Alliance.
— Increase the number of researchers who receive publicly funded research awards. A special management system is being developed at Saarland University in order to identify and individually assign research awards.
— In order to fulfil its focus of serving the common good and entering into dialogue with society via publicly funded research, Saarland University will recognize and support the research-related communication activities of its researchers. Through a new 'Science communication' inter- nal funding category coordinated by the uni- versity's Research Committee, start-up funding for project ideas can be initiated with a view to tapping national funding lines provided by the BMBF and DFG.
31

  Ind icators
— Number of joint appointments, research awards and prizes.
—Establishment of a science communication funding category.
Medium to long-term measures
— Saarland University is developing a holistic concept for the structured support, mentoring and integration of junior researchers, starting with initiatives for school pupils and support during their studies through to academic career development and business start-ups. Within the framework of the European University Alliance, a joint project is being pursued at T4ERI under the slogan 'The Best Careers for the Brightest Minds'. Supplemented by the Research Career Service Centre support structure of Saarland University which is currently being set up, it enables measures to be developed that will attract the loyalty of excellent candidates to the university at an early stage while at the same time promoting the international mobility of this target group. This approach takes into account the individual and interdisciplinary treatment of current research questions at Saarland Univer- sity and creates an explicitly international focus.
Through this concept, Saarland University is positioning itself as an internationally pioneer- ing training centre for junior researchers and improving the basis for acquiring ERC grants, Emmy Noether groups, independent junior research groups and variants of the Heisenberg programme. The structured junior researcher concept is aimed at consolidating the previously diverse activities at Saarland University and transferring them into a structurally coherent support service, thus increasing the attractive- ness of the university.
Ind icators
— Establishment of the innovative junior researcher concept.
— Number of independent junior research groups (Emmy Noether, ERC Starting Grants, Heisenberg fellowship and professorship) and number of appointments of university members at all professorship levels, including junior professor- ships, W1/W2 and W2/W3 tenure-track profes- sorships.
Strategic goal: Research infrastructure
An essential prerequisite for excellent research is an adequate research infrastructure in all areas, including
libraries and administration. This encompasses equip- ment and appropriate facilities, optimum manage- ment and maintenance of equipment and their accessibility as well as qualified assistance for users. Besides large-scale equipment, computer systems and intelligent data storage systems, this includes the effective provision of media, in particular free and open access scientific publications for all in- terested individuals worldwide.
Short-term measures
— Open access will have significant consequences and costs for authors, Saarland University and the Saarland University and State Library (SULB) which will only be minimally absorbed by public external funding. Saarland University will there- fore develop a concept to fund an open access strategy for its researchers. It will enable the SULB to set up a support concept in order to plan expenses for publications that are insufficiently covered by external funding and thus to support researchers with publishing (cf. chapter 5.4).
— To ensure the storage and legally compliant archiving of research data for the retention period stipulated by law (10 to 25 years), Saarland Uni- versity is establishing a centralized service that takes into account good scientific practice and the
32

research and transformation
FAIR principles (findable, accessible, interoper- able, re-usable). With the help of national and international funding lines, the university is endeavouring to acquire additional funds for establishing and expanding sufficient storage capacities for achieving sustainable data manage- ment.
— Establishment of a Center for Scientific Comput- ing that brings together the expertise in high- performance computing and offers an advisory and support service for all subjects.
— To ensure the university's competitiveness, the university has begun its institutional renewal by setting up governance structures, including in the area of externally funded research. Examples of measures include the establishment of om- budsman bodies that have been operating for some time now, including a commission for en- suring good scientific practice, a commission for the ethics of security-relevant research and ombudspersons. Current measures that are in the process of being implemented at Saarland University include the establishment of a panel for investigator-initiated studies. These clinical studies are supported by systematic quality management.
Ind icators
— Establishment of the Open Access strategy, including the SULB support concept.
— Central and sustainable research data manage- ment service.
— Number of clinical studies. Med ium-term measures
To provide the foundations for a regional Science Alliance, Saarland University is devising a joint agreement with local external research institutions and the UKS to involve each other in key decisions. A supporting umbrella concept is being implemented for the establishment, expansion and operation of core facilities and equipment centres to ensure efficient use of existing technology. As part of this umbrella concept, Saarland University is establishing core facilities with transparent cost calculations and efficient management structures for providers and users. The first core facilities have been set up (light microscopy at the Faculty of Medicine; currently in planning: correlative microscopy at the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Technology, together with the INM and IZfP). Further equipment centres in the areas of electron microscopy, biobanking, nucleic acid sequencing (genome/transcriptome), proteome/
lipidome /metabolome /mass spectrometry, labora- tory animal management and animal-free methods in the life sciences are in the process of being established and will be supported in the long term by Saarland University with regard to maintaining a competitive equipment pool, transparent full-cost accounting, optimum maintenance and sustainable supervision by personnel.
The university's internal call for proposals for major instrumentation will ensure the renewal of the equipment facilities while a specific DFG support programme will take care of the design of the equipment centres. In this context, the research- supporting units will provide assistance, including full-cost accounting for scientific and commercial operations.
Another measure is the availability of reliable external funding statistics.
33

  Ind icators
The established umbrella concept for the core facilities will expand the existing infrastructure and enable it to be utilized across locations and disci- plines. Researchers are informed about the availabil- ity and use of the core facilities and enjoy easy access thanks to the central management system set out in the concept.
Strategic goal: Transfer and business start-ups
Saarland University will continue to expand its position as an innovation driver for Saarland. Technol- ogy transfer promotes structural change in the region and thus contributes to Saarland's ability to rise to the challenges of the future. Market-oriented innovation processes are important goals of basic and applied research. This development is accompanied by a continuously high rate of start-ups, ensuring Saarland University maintains its position among the top ten universities for business start-ups in Germany as ranked by the Gründungsradar until 2030 and im- proves its ranking in the long term.
Short-term measures
An important pillar of the educational concept is to introduce junior researchers to entrepreneurship in order to develop Saarland University as a training
centre for future employers and company founders within the region. First-rate training of junior researchers in all disciplines creates the basis for supporting Saarland and its economy and helping it to advance in all directions.
Ind icators
— Establishment
entrepreneurship in the innovative junior re- searcher concept.
Medium-term measures
— The Saarland University Innovation Centre will anticipate new directions and developments from the regional and supra-regional economy and promote the mutual technology transfer between the economy and the university.
—In a Saarland University-owned subsidiary, a culture of business start-ups will be established with a view to creating a business ecosystem, accompanied by comprehensive support for this process from the initial idea to the first stable business and growth phase. This initiative will also support the federal state's innovation strategy with a wide range of university mea- sures to increase the number of start-ups in Saarland. Examples include the establishment of
an investment fund and positioning Saarland University as a start-up university in regional and university marketing.
— New interfaces with companies will be estab- lished in order to leverage the resulting coopera- tion partnerships for the benefit of Saarland University within the framework of joint research and networking activities. A continuous and ongoing process chain in the form of a Transfer Office will help to drive commercial exploitation and patent strategies more strongly than before.
Ind icators
— Number of sustainable new start-ups, number of patents and their commercial exploitation
— Enquiries and projects initiated by small and medium-sized enterprises as well as industry in general
— Top 10 ranking in the Gründungsradar.
of measures
for introducing
34

research and transformation
Strategic goal: Excellence as an opportunity
If Saarland University as a medium-sized university achieved excellence status by the end of 2026, the listed infrastructure-related and strategic measures could be implemented sustainably and accelerated for the further development of the university across the board. As the only university in Saarland, a region highly affected by structural change, excel- lence status is a way of continuing to provide the necessary impetus for the region as a centre of innovation in the competition between the federal states. At the same time, efforts to expand research expertise and achieve excellence status provide the opportunity to set the course for Saarland Univer- sity's further development beyond 2030. As part of the Excellence Strategy, Saarland University is taking up the challenge of measuring itself against other German universities. It is focusing on its outstanding position as a key pillar in the future-oriented devel- opment of Saarland and is aware of its special responsibility as the federal state's only university. A new Saarbrücken Cluster of Excellence jointly sup- ported by the university's computer science depart- ment and the abovementioned research institutions will represent cutting-edge research at the highest international level. The university's computer science department should also set standards through its multidisciplinary links: In continuation of already
developed interdisciplinary cooperation partner- ships, the aim is to create cross-faculty science clusters in which computer science closely cooper- ates with the natural and life sciences, linguistics, law, business science and economics, social sciences and the humanities, for example in the field of digital humanities, and also offers supporting study programmes in interdisciplinary cooperative re- search projects.
Over the past two years, the university has already strengthened the second pillar in research excel- lence in the top interdisciplinary areas of life sci- ences/pharmaceutical science, medicine and (bio)in- formatics in a targeted way, both through the creation of additional cross-institutional professor- ships and junior research groups and through early successor appointments in relevant research disci- plines. Interaction in these areas is characterized by intensive collaboration, which is currently mani- fested in several active collaborative research centres, research training groups and research groups as well as research networks across institute, subject and faculty boundaries. This development is based on close cooperation which has grown over the years with external research institutions of the Helmholtz and Leibniz associations and the Fraun- hofer-Gesellschaft located in the region.
The overarching goal until 2025 is the targeted strengthening of joint and highly interdisciplinary research priorities between three faculties (Medi- cine, Mathematics and Computer Science, Natural Science and Technology) and the external partners HIPS, INM and CISPA in order to support and strengthen the application for a cluster of excellence in a targeted manner via successfully extended and new collaborative initiatives. All related goals and measures are furthermore underpinned and rein- forced by the Pharmaceutical Research Alliance established between the university, the HIPS/HZI, the INM, the Leibniz Science Campus 'Living Thera- peutic Materials', which has been funded since 2020, and the Pharma Science Hub cooperation platform, which is currently being established be- tween the university and the HIPS/HZI in the field of translational drug research as part of a federal and state-funded development programme at the Saarbrücken campus. By establishing a Center for Translational Drug Research with an interdisciplinary research focus, the aim is to also have an economic impact and provide future-oriented impetus for structural change in the federal state and its neigh- bouring regions, in particular through the integra- tion of pharmaceutical companies and spin-offs of biotech start-ups.
35

  Short-term measures
— In 2023, Saarland University will submit a draft proposal for a Cluster of Excellence in the core field of Computer Science which will be coordi- nated by the Department of Computer Science and involve external partner institutions.
— In 2023, Saarland University will submit a draft proposal for a Cluster of Excellence in the core field of NanoBioMed which will be coordinated by the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Technol- ogy and the Faculty of Medicine and involve external partner institutions.
Ind icators
— Submission of Cluster of Excellence applications. Medium to long-term measures
Saarland University also aims to submit an overarch- ing application for the Universities of Excellence funding line in 2025. To this end, Saarland University will continuously develop conceptual proposals for all performance indicators. Saarland University sees this process as a great opportunity, even regardless of success and beyond the application itself. The involvement of all university members in this regener-
ation process will result in a high level of innovation and promises to strengthen our shared identity and university-wide support for the measures.
Ind icators
— Sustainable implementation of proposals in the regeneration process of Saarland University.
36

UdS 2030
networking and cooperation
FIGURE 10:
The Campus Center is the central point of contact for new university members from near and far.
37
   
FIGURE 11:
Internationalization, international relations and European profile at a glance
(data as of 31 December 2021)
 20% international students, mainly from France, India, China, Syria, Luxembourg
14% international employees across all personnel groups makes Saarland University Germany's leading university for international employment
 External funding and grants:
 million euros EU external
funding for international- 12 ization projects within
the framework of Erasmus, Interreg and DAAD
35 Alexander von Humbold funding as of 2020
 Mobility 2021/22
 367 incoming 308 outgoing
95 internships 16 staff mobility
 36
international study programmes
of which with double 22 or multiple degree
qualifications
with funding from the 18 Franco-German
University
2 Erasmus Mundus degree programmes
study programmes 15 conducted (partly) in
English
study programmes 18 conducted (partly) in
French
Europaicum, EURIdentity and Transform4Europe Tracks certificates
 400
active partnerships with higher education institutions worldwide
   Internationalization, international relations and European profile
 active in the University of the Greater Region cross-border network
  Coordinator of the European University Alliance Transform4Europe
   Central and interdepartmental institutions as well as actors with an international focus:
International Relations Division comprising the Internationalization Department, International Office, Welcome Center and Centre for International Students, Cluster for European Research (CEUS), Centre for Franco-German Relations, Language Centre, International Study Centre Saar, Europa-Institut in economics and law, Centre Juridique franco-allemand, UniGR-Center for Border Studies, Institute for Languages and Plurilingualism, The European School of Materials (EUSMAT)

networking and cooperation
4 Internationalization, international relations and European profile
Thanks to its founding history and border location, Saarland University has always had a strong European focus with a particular emphasis on France as one of its unique features. Its international profile is founded on the high number of international study pro- grammes, including double and multiple degree qual- ifications, above-average proportion of international
4.1 Vision and guidelines
Vision for 2030: International European university of the Saarland region with a focus on France
— It is renowned as one of the leading European universities in Germany with a clear and univer- sity-wide European profile, highly developed ex- pertise in all aspects of France and the French language, attractive Europe-related study pro- grammes, European modules in all study pro- grammes and internationally visible European research at the level of excellence.
— Saarland University is one of the leading interna- tional universities in Germany in terms of the number of international students and employ- ees, offering a wide range of services and a strong welcome culture.
students and its leading position in terms of the number of international employees. The university also cultivates two strategic alliances – the Univer- sity of the Greater Region and Transform4Europe – and a targeted policy of trilingualism.
Securing and further expanding this profile as an international European university with a focus on France is a key priority for the coming years, particu- larly with regard to attracting international students and ensuring their successful integration.
— It is attractive because of its range of innovative international study programmes, some of which are offered in digital format.
— It is future-oriented with above-average student mobility in a variety of formats thanks to a uni- versity-wide International Week, double degree programmes and integrated mobility phases.
— Saarland University is active in its two strong strategic higher education alliances: University of the Greater Region (UniGR) and Transform4- Europe (T4EU).
— It fulfils its responsibility towards students from crisis regions and in need of support.
— Saarland University is exemplary for its innova- tive and comprehensive multilingualism policy and its actively practiced trilingualism.
— It is a popular employer that cultivates and pro- motes internationality.
39

  Guidelines
Saarland University views internationalization as a process that spans all aspects of the university and as an important pillar on its path to developing into a competitive university of excellence. International- ization has always been a central element in the university's identity and is put into practice and actively promoted at all levels.
Saarland University sees itself as an international European university with a focus on France. It has a European founding history and a strong European profile with a focus on cross-border cooperation in the Greater Region, France and the Francophonie. However, its international identity should not be reduced to its historical or geographic connection with France or Europe – a European university is per se international.
Furthermore, Saarland University sees itself as a pioneer in the implementation and development of European higher education policy, which it continu- ously advances within the framework of its two strategic partnerships: University of the Greater Region (UniGR) and Transform4Europe (T4EU).
In the university's partnership policy, the strategic and political relevance of these two alliances does not contradict the maintenance of existing subject-
related collaborations and partnerships or the development of new ones. Saarland University strives to ensure active partnerships and pays attention to appropriate quality assurance. The DAAD Eastern European Partnerships of Saarland University are not only traditionally established with the university but are also of high current political relevance and should continue to be actively driven.
Saarland University is clearly committed to European values. It teaches a large majority of its students Europe-related knowledge, language skills and intercultural skills as well as actively supports them with international exchange experiences.
Saarland University promotes multilingualism among its members. It has established a trilingual campus in which importance is accorded to German as the national language, French as the neighbouring country's language and unique feature of the uni- versity and English as a global language and lingua franca, thus contributing to the actively practiced international culture.
40

networking and cooperation
4.2 Current status
Analysis
FIGURE 12:
SWOT analysis for internationalization, international relations and European profile
 Strengths:
Traditional European and international profile Focus on France as a unique feature
European university alliances: UniGR and Transform4Europe
International beacons and best practices in teaching and research
High level of internationality among students and staff High number of international study programmes
Internationalization Committee and Internationalization Fund
Trilingual Campus
 Weaknesses:
Insufficient structural anchoring of individual projects
Low outgoing mobility of students (experiences abroad)
Need for improvement of language and international skills in administration
No established key performance indicator system for international aspects
 Opportunities:
Prospect of strategic international partnerships and networks
Helping to shape European higher education policy
Location marketing, close cooperation with politics and business (close ties)
International marketing and alumni relations
Expansion of alternative higher education access (international foundation programme VSI MINT) to additional subject areas
Study programmes conducted in English
 Risks:
Conflict between regional responsibilities and internationalization
Lack of long-term financial planning certainty
Negative effects of the pandemic on internationalization and mobility behaviour
Lower international awareness of Saarland University as a research and study location compared Germany-wide
41

  General framework
The university will have to counter the demographic development in Germany and especially in Saarland as well as the resulting decline in the number of holders of higher education entrance qualifications with targeted measures to attract international students – through targeted marketing, recruitment, interna- tionalization of the study programmes offered and further development of services.
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted and complicated international mobility and cooperation
4.3 Goals and measures
Goal: Internationally attractive: win excellence-level students, scientists and academics from abroad
Saarland University has a high number of interna- tional study programmes, a consistently above- average percentage of international students and graduates and is a national leader in terms of the proportion of international staff. This highly devel- oped international profile, to which the university attaches great value, is something Saarland Univer- sity intends to maintain and further expand. The university is responding to the continuously growing competition and demographic developments by implementing targeted measures to further attract
over the past two years and the medium- and long- term consequences are not yet foreseeable. It has also significantly accelerated digitalization in administra- tion and teaching. The university now needs to strategically leverage this innovation potential for international cooperation.
The European higher education policy including goals, programmes and measures such as Erasmus without paper, European Universities, Horizon Europe, the European Student Card and the European Degree
students and scientists from all over the world. To keep the overall number of students stable, the university aims to increase the proportion of interna- tional students from currently 20% to 30% by 2030.
Ind icators
Indicators are the percentage of international stu- dents, the number of international first-year students and the proportion of international employees.
Measure: Increase the number of study programmes conducted in English and French with integrated German courses
form an important framework for the international- ization of Saarland University and are being actively pursued. Through its university alliances UniGR and T4EU, Saarland University will help shape European higher education policy and actively use the momen- tum to further develop its international profile. In addition, the goals and frameworks of the two uni- versity alliances themselves will significantly shape and enrich the measures for implementing the internationalization goals by 2030.
In addition to significantly increasing the number of Bachelor's and Master's study programmes conducted in English, efforts will be focused on greater use of formats such as short programmes, tutorials conducted in English and microcredentials – in each case taking into account the special needs of international students and with parallel integrated German courses to prepare them for integration into the German labour market. Facul- ties will receive intensive support with setting up these initiatives. In areas that are of particular interest to Francophone students, study programmes conducted in French should also be particularly
42

networking and cooperation
promoted in order to better serve this target group, for example through French guest lectureships.
Ind icators
Indicators are the number of new study pro- grammes conducted in English, the number of study programmes with integrated German courses and the number of study programmes conducted in French.
Measure: Foundation programmes and higher education access courses
Innovative formats for structuring the orientation phase for international students are essential for attracting international students, especially those without direct higher education entrance qualifica- tions. By introducing the international foundation programme VSI MINT, the university has already created a very successful format which it will continue to offer. The programme will be expanded to other subject areas as necessary and adapted to address different needs and target groups.
Ind icators
Indicators are the successful continuation of the international foundation programme VSI MINT, the number of students enrolled in VSI MINT and the
number of students successfully enrolled in a study programme after VSI MINT. A further indicator is the introduction of a foundation programme in at least one other subject.
Measure: Integration through social contact, sport and culture
The university actively promotes the integration of international students by offering low-threshold activities in the areas of social events, excursions, culture, sport and exercise as a universal tool to foster communication and cooperation as well as identification with the university and Saarland. The initiatives offered by the Centre for International Students (ZiS) should therefore be continued and expanded as necessary to include researchers and their families, since excursions, city and campus tours, speciality meal days in the Mensa, interna- tional country evenings and buddy programmes contribute significantly to the integration of international guests. Sports and exercise are also very low-threshold formats of integration and exchange for international students. The sports courses and events offered by the University Sports Center are therefore likewise important tools for promoting their integration.
Ind icators
Indicators are the number of activities and events offered by the ZiS, the number of participants and the percentage of international students participat- ing in courses and events offered by the University Sports Center.
Measure: International marketing and recruitment
In order to attract international students, Saarland University will intensify its international marketing and establish targeted recruitment measures (see also chapter 2.3) for these target groups, while also working closely together with Saarland in the area of location marketing. International alumni work also plays an important role. Participation in addi- tional international rankings will also be regularly reviewed and, if deemed fruitful, expanded in a targeted manner with resources made available accordingly (see also chapter 2.3). The university's web pages act as a business card for Saarland University. They should therefore be consistently available in English in future. Furthermore, Saarland University will fulfil its emphasis on France in its European focus by translating selected content into French.
43

  Ind icators
Indicators include the establishment of a specifically international marketing campaign and recruitment measures for the international target group, the number of international first-year students and the consistent provision of the university's website in English and where relevant also in French.
Measure: Targeted further development of the university's welcome culture and initiatives
In addition to targeted marketing, optimum condi- tions and facilities play a key role in making a location particularly attractive for international guests. Over the last few years, the Welcome Center has successfully established important structures, services and welcome initiatives. These are to be continued and further developed within the frame- work of student services at Saarland University. In addition to a front office as the first point of contact for national and international prospective students, applicants and students (see also chapter 2.3), the university will establish an International Service Center which will respond appropriately to the further-reaching specific needs of its international students, doctoral candidates and researchers.
The attractiveness of Saarland as a place to study is also dependent on further increasing the number of
affordable apartments for international students as well as on an open, outward-looking, non-dis- criminatory environment in the region.
Ind icators
Indicators are target group-specific satisfaction with the welcome services, which is regularly evaluated via surveys, and the number of student apartments.
Measure: Marketing and welcome culture to attract international academics and researchers to Saarland University
International academics and researchers should also be given special consideration as a target group in marketing and welcome services. In addition, greater use should be made of instruments such as the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, the German Academic International Network (GAIN), EU funding such as Marie Curie, DAAD funding or doctoral student exchange placements via Erasmus.
Ind icators
Indicators are the establishment of a service centre for international academics and researchers in the Welcome Center, target group-specific satisfaction with the welcome services which is regularly
evaluated via surveys, the number of international researchers and academics and the number of successful applications for the above-mentioned programmes.
Goal: Internationally organized: Internationalize organizational structures and personnel
An international organizational culture is both the basis for internationalization and the outcome of it. Saarland University strives to further internationalize all central and decentralized organizational struc- tures. Important milestones have already been reached with the Trilingual Campus, the Inter- nationalization Committee and the Internationaliza- tion Fund. The introduction of regular international- ization reporting requirement in all bodies will help the members of these bodies to identify with internationalization processes by providing compre- hensive information on efforts to promote further internationalization and progress made, inviting them to actively contribute.
44

networking and cooperation
Ind icators
The indicator is the introduction of a regular interna- tionalization reporting requirement in all central bodies.
Measure: Further reduction of hurdles for interna- tional guests
To ensure that international guests and university members can smoothly manage their daily univer- sity life, contact persons with English and/or French language skills and proven intercultural skills should be identified and deployed in key administrative positions. In addition to benefiting international guests, this measure will also contribute to the uni- versity's international organizational development. Saarland University will therefore continue to offer dedicated language courses for employees.
Further digitalization of international administrative processes is an important goal. Forms and comple- tion guides should additionally be made available in English and/or French. In close coordination with the state and potentially with other partners in the region, the pool of guest apartments for interna- tional academics and researchers must be further developed and modernized in line with their needs. The Trilingual Campus will also be continued and expanded by hiring in-house translators.
Ind icators
Indicators include the number of interculturally and linguistically trained employees in key positions for international guests, the number of language courses for employees and the number of partici- pants, the number of guest apartments, the recruit- ment of in-house translators and the continuation of the Trilingual Campus.
Measure: Increase staff mobility
By 2025, as many employees as possible in key positions for the internationalization of the univer- sity should make use of the opportunity for a work- related stay abroad, an international (virtual) event and Erasmus+ funding. This will contribute to individual professional development and training, strengthening relationships with partner institutions and growing understanding among Saarland Uni- versity staff of international university members' needs. The two strategic alliances – University of the Greater Region and Transform4Europe – offer unpar- alleled and often very low-threshold opportunities. In addition to the mobility of administrative person- nel, special attention should also be paid to the mobility of teaching staff, as this contributes signifi- cantly to internationalization at home in addition to making new contacts in research and teaching. The
university intends to recognize internationally performed teaching work. In the medium to long term, Saarland University aims to ensure that 20 percent of its employees have benefited from the option of staff mobility at least once in the course of their employment.
Ind icator
The indicator is the number of employees taking up the option of staff mobility or teaching mobility.
45

  Measure: Internationally oriented organization of study programmes
Further organizational development of the univer- sity is required in order to increase the proportion of international students and junior researchers. International programme coordinators need to be established and strengthened in the faculties to meet the special additional needs of international students. Uncomplicated administrative processes, individual advisory services and intercultural training all make an important contribution to integrating students into the academic life of the faculty.
Attracting and supporting international students and increasing student mobility require digitalized administrative procedures and tailored support structures, not only at the administrative level but in particular in the faculties and in the central and interdepartmental institutions. Measures include subject-specific organization of mobility processes and efficient examinations offices to handle the smooth transfer of credits and student statistics. The challenges posed by international student mobility and the associated individualization of study pathways can only be met if they are addressed by both the central administration and the interna- tional programme coordinators of the faculties.
Ind icator
Indicators are the establishment of international programme coordinators in all faculties and the central administration, the number of incoming and outgoing students as a measure of mobility and target group-specific satisfaction with the services which is regularly evaluated by surveys.
Measure: Support for student initiatives
Student initiatives have made a significant contribution to the university's welcome culture for years through the voluntary engagement of students, providing im- portant points of contact for our international guests. The university intends to further strengthen student engagement and provide special support in this area.
Ind icator
The indicator is the number of student initiatives provided by and for international students.
Goal: Internationally networked – expanding and strategically leveraging partnerships
Saarland University aims to expand its numerous international partnerships. Through strategic man- agement and targeted quality management, greater
use should be made of international partnerships in order to drive the internationalization of the univer- sity. In addition to developing new subject-related collaborations and partnerships in research, teach- ing and student exchange, the focus is also on the DAAD Eastern Partnerships of Saarland University as well as the two strategic alliances, UniGR and Transform4Europe.
Measure: Further development of the University of the Greater Region network
Initiated by Saarland University in 2008, the University of the Greater Region (UniGR) promotes the univer- sity's (cross-border) regional ties and is regarded as a model for the European Higher Education Area and the European Research Area. Flagship initiatives include border area research conducted by the UniGR Center for Border Studies and the UniGR Center for Circular Economy of Materials and Metals which is currently being established. The university is also pursuing the goal of a joint teacher training pro- gramme for primary schools with Lorraine. The expansion of research and teaching cooperation agreements with UniGR partners is an explicit univer- sity-wide goal and will be further encouraged. In addition, the momentum of the European Universities initiative should be leveraged to the maximum extent for the benefit of the UniGR.
46

networking and cooperation
Ind icators
Indicators are the continuation of the UniGR Center for Border Studies, the number of bi-, tri- and multilateral projects with UniGR partners as well as the successful acquisition of external EU funding for the UniGR, in particular in connection with the European Universities initiative if the framework conditions of the programme allow.
Measure: Consolidation of the European university alliance Transform4Europe
The European university alliance Transform4Europe (T4EU), which is initially being funded by the Euro- pean Commission until 2023, offers huge develop- ment potential for the university. In addition to the successful implementation of the highly ambitious project in which many central and decentralized actors of the university are involved, it is also important to establish sustainable scientific cooper- ation agreements with the T4EU partners. With Transform4Europe, the university is also seizing the opportunity to actively shape European higher education policy and to help implement European goals as a pioneering university, for example the European Student Card or the European Degree. A further aim is to secure subsequent funding for Transform4Europe until 2029 by participating in the competitive funding process.
Ind icators
Indicators are the number of bi-, tri- and multilateral projects with T4EU partners, the positive evaluation of the outcomes of the current Erasmus project by the Commission and successfully securing subse- quent funding for European universities until 2029.
Measure: Expansion of the range of double-degree programmes
Study programme cooperations with double or multiple degree qualifications are innovative ad- vertisements for Saarland University, which is one of the leading universities in this regard nationwide. By leveraging its European and international partner- ships and extensive expertise in this area, the existing range of programmes is to be expanded as far as pos- sible, including via the use of innovative digital formats.
Ind icator
The indicator is the number of study programme cooperations with double or multiple degree qualifications.
Measure: Internationalization of study programmes through mobility windows
Saarland University aims to provide the majority of its students with a mobility experience without
them having to be concerned about recognition of credits and compatibility with their study programme. Particularly within the framework of the two univer- sity alliances, UniGR and Transform4Europe, a wide range of opportunities are available to students. By 2025, mobility windows will be integrated into all new study programmes. In the longer term, stays abroad (potentially also shorter and hybrid stays) will be integrated into all study programmes as a mandatory element.
Ind icator
The indicator is the number of study programmes with integrated mobility windows.
Goal: Internationally successful: Optimally qualify graduates for the global labour market
Saarland University wants to optimally prepare its graduates for the labour market: In the same way as German students are prepared for the international labour market, international students should be qualified for the German labour market. In addition to outstanding professional training and proficiency in German, international skills also ensure successful entry into the global labour market.
47

  Measure: European, intercultural and language skills as well as skills development through interna- tional experiences and mobility
As an international European university, Saarland University strives to educate young people with European knowledge, language skills and inter- cultural awareness. The Europaicum Certificate, the EurIdentity Certificate within the framework of the UniGR and the Transform4Europe Tracks aim to provide students with these core skills. In addition, the mobility of students is to be further supported, for example by the Go-Out! Service Center at the International Service Center, and expanded and extended to include new innovative short formats as part of Transform4Europe Week. The plan is to gradually introduce the annual Transform4Europe Week as an international innovation week at Saar- land University, with the aim of establishing it university-wide by 2029. Saarland University aims to significantly increase the number of internships and work placements abroad and to enable at least half of its students to undertake a form of physical and/or virtual mobility that is recognized with credits by 2029. In order to increase language skills, the university will continue to develop and expand the services offered by its Language Centre. In the long term, it will incorporate language courses into the study programmes in as many subjects as possible.
Ind icators
Indicators are the number of participants in the Europaicum Certificate, the EURIdentity Certificate and the Transform4Europe Tracks, the continuation of the Go-Out! Service Center, the gradual introduc- tion of the Transform4Europe Week, the number of outgoing students and staff, the number of intern- ships abroad, the number of language courses and the number of participants as well as the number of study programmes with fully integrated language courses.
Measure: Ensuring the academic success of inter- national students
The expansion of parallel integrated German courses (especially as part of study programmes conducted in English) as well as support with topics such as academic work in Germany and intercultural communication will contribute to ensuring the academic success of international students. The numerous actors and initiatives in the areas of intercultural communication and academic writing are to be consolidated and strengthened. The ex- pansion of the aforementioned programmes not only contributes to ensuring international students are successful in their studies but also significantly strengthens the chances of integrating our interna- tional graduates into the German labour market. Thanks to the established services of the ISZ Saar
(International Study Centre Saar), Saarland Univer- sity can already specifically address the needs of international students. This needs to be preserved and further expanded together with appropriate support measures from the faculties.
In addition, the range of services for supporting career planning and preparing international stu- dents for the German labour market will also be further developed.
Ind icators
Indicators are the number of parallel integrated German courses and their participants, the number of preparatory German courses and their partici- pants, the number of other parallel integrated measures and their participants, the percentage of international graduates, the number of services for international students offered by the Career Center and target group-specific satisfaction which is evaluated by regular surveys.
48

 UdS 2030
employment and structuring
FIGURE 13:
The implementation of transformation processes and greater quality of service will help to increase the standing of Saarland University.
49

FIGURE 14:
Transformation processes, services and govern- ance at a glance (data as of 31 December 2021)
 One of the largest employers in Saarland
 4,613 employees in total 257 chairs
23 junior professorships
1,595 academic employees
1,460 administrative and technical personnel
1,278 research assistants
51 trainees and apprentices
   University site development plan
Additional maintenance funds
2.5 million
euros p.a.
 Digital teaching and digital working
   Transformation processes, services and governance
 Public library structure
Freely accessible literature
 Homburg
Saarbrücken Campus and Meerwiesertalweg
 Gender- and diversity- sensitive university
  150
buildings
12,000
rooms
305,000 m2
usable area
 Funding and budget
 231 million euros of state funding
8 million euros Future contract funding
16 million euros Higher Education Pact funding
 Family-friendly university
 
employment and structuring
5 Transformation processes, services and governance
5.1 Vision and guidelines
Following extensive restructuring in recent years to adequately respond to the austerity measures in the period up to 2020 and enable all university units to adapt to the changed and increased requirements, the process- and target-group-oriented alignment of all service areas is a crucial success factor for the implementation of the overall strategy by 2030. Building on the structural changes that have already taken place, the university has begun to instigate targeted transformation processes and will be focusing on comprehensively implementing them over the coming years. In the course of the transfor- mation process, the academic support areas will be developed into a consolidated service that is more systematically geared towards the needs of the university members, tailored according to the various target groups. The basis for this increased service quality is an effective working environment that promotes employee satisfaction. To ensure this, the university plans to continuously improve and digi- talize working conditions and processes and to provide its employees with adequate support.
As part of a continuous improvement process, a survey of administrative staff and customers of the university's administrative services was conducted in the second half of 2021. The results identify further areas for action in the area of administration. Inter- nal information management and the organization
of interfaces in process flows are the two key tasks that need to be addressed in the coming years in order to increase service quality.
An internal evaluation has also shown that due to age-related fluctuation, only just over half of the current administrative and technical staff will still be working at the university in 2030. This generational change represents both an opportunity and a risk. On the one hand, there is a risk of not being able to adequately fill positions that become vacant; on the other hand, it opens up the opportunity to better take into account the changing requirements of the working world in the qualification profiles of new employees.
51

5.2 Current status
Analysis
FIGURE 15:
SWOT analysis for transformation processes, services and governance
 Strengths:
Basic financial stability until 2025 through growing global budget
Gender- and diversity-sensitive family-friendly university
Digital transformation process started and the resulting increased requirements incorporated into the administrative culture
Employee satisfaction with working conditions
 Weaknesses:
Significant refurbishment and modernization backlog for buildings and IT infrastructure
Information management and process interfaces in need of improvement
Saarland University is not sufficiently perceived externally as an attractive employer
Complex financial structure
 Opportunities:
Digitalization of administrative and service processes
Generational change in the workforce
University site development plan to reduce the building refurbishment backlog
Further development of the libraries Excellence process will boost quality
 Risks:
Loss of knowledge due to generational change Strong competition for best minds at all levels
High dependence of the global budget on federal state funding
Excellence process requires binding long-term decisions and financial capital
52

employment and structuring
5.3 Implementation of digital transformation
The demands on digitalization are growing rapidly, sometimes by leaps and bounds, as recently shown by the COVID-19 pandemic. For a university, it is also a major challenge to continuously keep pace with the new developments, needs and framework conditions. It is therefore particularly important to systematically address this issue in all university units. The existing digitalization strategy of Saarland University provides the basis for achieving this goal.
A functional and reliable network infrastructure is essential for university operations. The outdated state of the current structure is a critical factor, which is why the progressive replacement of the network infrastructure was started as part of the HORUS 3.0 project. Over the course of several years, the aim of this project is to return the university to the state of the art and to remain at this level in future through continuous investment.
In the areas of teaching and administration, cloud- based solutions are increasingly being used. How- ever, this is not possible in research due to the high demands placed on IT performance and the need to implement research-specific solutions. The necessary high-performance computing capacities and research data storage services must therefore be provided locally. Since the extensive computing capacity cannot be provided with the currently outdated
data centre, preparations are underway for the con- struction of a new data centre that will meet these high demands. The distributed computer structures will also be centralized and brought together in a new modern infrastructure in a Centre for Scientific Computing (see chapter 3.3 Infrastructure).
When implementing the digital transformation, the university has also set itself the goal of increasing the quality of work, the job satisfaction of users and communication with a view to improving service quality in all aspects. Digitalization is thus not merely a matter of transferring manual processes into IT solutions, it also serves to review and streamline administrative processes.
In addition to digitalization in teaching and studying (see chapter 2), the digitalization of administration which has already begun in basic form will also be intensified. In particular, processes for staff recruit- ment, travel expense accounting, appointment management, the personal work environment in general and complex processes based on shared tasks will all be digitalized to provide useful IT-based forms of support. A core project is the gradual replacement of the SAP system, an undertaking to which the university has committed itself for the next few years. Since 1999, Saarland University has been using an SAP ERP system in its administration.
The university aims to migrate to the successor system S/4 HANA by 2027. Possible migration concepts have already been developed as part of an Adoption Starter programme. The core of the recommendation is to introduce selected SAP cloud products before the actual S/4HANA migration in order to reduce the complexity of the migration project and simplify the development of a new system.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for digitalization as a work tool to keep the univer- sity running and enable working without geograph- ical boundaries. At the same time, experience shows that broad qualification of all employees in digitali- zation will be necessary in future in order to make full use of the possibilities that are opened up with regard to delivering an appropriate service quality. It is therefore a key task for Saarland University as a teaching institution to comprehensively ensure the qualification of its own employees with regard to their digital skills at an early stage and to expand the training opportunities offered by the academic institution in addition to the existing training in a manner that is appropriate to the target group. Particular attention must be paid to ensuring that employee groups that may be less familiar with using technology are not neglected.
53

      Goals
Measures
 Ind icators
 — Functional and reliable network infrastructure — High-performance computing capacity and
research data storage expanded locally
—Largely digital management and process streamlining
—Increased work quality, satisfaction and communication
—Broad qualification of all employees in digitalization
— Start of network infrastructure replacement as part of the Horus 3.0 project
— New data centre building
— Centralization and infrastructure
modernization of computer structures
— Replacement of the SAP system used
— Expansion of target group-oriented training programmes
 —Numerous fully digitalized administrative processes
— If applicable, position in rankings (Digital Readiness Ranking) https://www.studycheck.de/digital-readiness- ranking
    54

employment and structuring
5.4 Modernization of libraries as central places for information, learning and work
Library facilities at Saarland University are indispens- able for ensuring an attractive study location and supporting excellence in university research and teaching. To guarantee and consolidate their contri- bution to fulfilling the university's core tasks in future, Saarland University has set itself the goal of further expanding the various libraries as central places for information, learning and working.
In order to leverage a wide range of synergy potentials and implement a uniform service concept across the board, Saarland University is planning to follow up its physical reorganization with an emphasis on shared functional processes. To this end, cooperation between the central and departmental libraries will be significantly expanded. An important step is the integration of all libraries into a new multi-client capable software solution which will be introduced under the responsibility of the SULB. In addition to providing literature, the creation of new places to learn and work is another core factor in supporting excellence in teaching and research – an area on which we need to place greater focus. This approach is supported by a study conducted by HIS HE1, which highlights the need for specific spaces that can be used as flexibly as possible. The fact that there is a high need for space was also the conclusion of the space
requirements assessment conducted in 2021 as part of the university site development plan. The resulting goal is thus to develop appropriate design concepts for self-directed learning spaces in the medium term. The derived measures for redesigning and equipping and, if necessary, converting rooms need to be implemented in intensive cooperation with the responsible departments.
The libraries will continue to offer students, teach- ing staff, researchers and the people of Saarland a comprehensive and diverse range of specialized and regional literature as well as modern library services. Particular importance is attached to future-oriented forms of literature provision and library use. The increasing importance of specialized literature and information sources in digital form (e-books, e-journals, databases) will be taken into account. Automated systems for booking workstations and creative spaces, borrowing and returning media, and electronic document delivery services will extend the classic range of services. By teaching the necessary media and information skills – in future particularly in the area of digital formats and services – libraries are expertly fulfilling one of their core tasks.
In future, the SULB's range of services will clearly focus on consulting and funding with regard to open access academic publications. In the medium term, the transition will have to be made from the local/ consortium subscription model to nationwide pub- lication-based funding models in line with the goal set by the DFG (cf. DEAL project). The approved applica- tion for the Open Access Publication Funding programme of the DFG will contribute to ensuring that researchers and academics will continue to receive financial support for fee-based open access publications in future. The expected costs have already increased and will continue to rise significantly in the future. It is therefore imperative for Saarland University to organize additional funding for this open access strategy. In future, a balance must also be ensured between the funding of publication costs (Open Access) and the procurement of media.
To complete the range of services, the SULB will continue to maintain and develop the open access repository for freely accessible publications by re- searchers at the university. In addition, open access publications can be made via the university's publish- ing house, universaar. Developed and operated by the SULB, a clear goal of the university bibliography, is to record and hold all metadata on publication activi- ties at Saarland University in future.
1 cf. Orte des Selbststudiums 2018 (Places of Self-Study 2018 – an empirical study on the temporal and spatial organization of student learning.)
55

      Goals
Measures
 Ind icators
 — Shared functional services
— New learning and working places created
— Future-proof funding for media acquisitions and open access
— Rooms redesigned in intensive cooperation with the responsible departments (self- learning spaces concept)
— Establishment of a central library system
—Open access fund to provide financial support for open access publications
 — University bibliography up to date
— User-friendly library opening hours in line
with demand
—Open access publications account for a significant proportion of the total number of publications by Saarland University members
    5.5 Driving the development of campus infrastructure
The development of the campus buildings and the improvement of the infrastructure at all university locations will remain an especially extensive task for Saarland and Saarland University. In order to continue to rise to this challenge and make a fundamental contribution to excellence in research and teaching, Saarland University intends to implement new central measures and drive measures that have already been initiated.
The University Site Development Plan (USDP) forms the basis for developing the campus buildings and infrastructure. It is currently being drafted in cooper- ation with the federal state.
The already performed site analysis will be followed by a building analysis and construction master plan to enable systematic new building and refurbish- ment measures.
A significant increase in investment for construction measures will be needed for this undertaking. The university is therefore very pleased that it has been allocated additional funding for self-managed building maintenance of 2.5 million euros annually since 2021. This funding is being used in particular to prevent the existing refurbishment backlog from increasing any further.
56

employment and structuring
In order to conduct particularly urgent building measures that are not foreseen in the state budget, the state and the university have agreed that the university will provide preliminary funding and assume responsibility. The preliminary funding of these construction measures will be financed from the university's liquid assets and with later reim- bursement by the state from the construction budget. From the university's point of view, this cooperation with the federal state has worked well so far and is therefore to be continued.
Building sustainability is becoming increasingly important and should be increasingly promoted by the university in the course of construction mea- sures. In 2021, the state launched a model project for funding construction measures according to the criteria of the federal government's Assessment System for Sustainable Building (BNB). Saarland University has expressed great interest in imple- menting measures in this context. In addition, digital transformation (see chapter 5.3) plays an equally important role in sustainable campus development in terms of working without spatial limitations.
Besides sustainability, the university is striving to increasingly incorporate the aspect of accessibility into the development of campus infrastructure. An overarching accessibility concept will consolidate
the different approaches with the aim of establish- ing accessibility standards for the university.
In the course of the building development mea- sures, Saarland University will establish new teach- ing, learning and working facilities on both cam- puses, including in the libraries (see chapter 5.4). A focus area is to create social and recreation spaces, in particular for students, in order to promote an active campus life.
In the medium to long term, profound changes in private and public mobility will have an impact on circulating and stationary traffic around and on the campus grounds as well as at all other university locations. The possibility of using environmentally friendly means of transport, such as pedelecs, e- scooters or e-cars, will lead to a permanent reduc- tion in traffic and changes in parking space manage- ment. In order to support these new means of transport and the changing circumstances, thus also paving the way for a largely car-free campus, the university intends to plan and implement suitable measures (e.g. organization of campus traffic, reorganization of the parking situation, expansion of bicycle parking facilities and charging facilities, coordination with the city and state regarding public transport) as part of a specific mobility concept.
57

       Goals
Measures
Ind icators
—Building infrastructure improved at all university locations
— Creation of social spaces
— Largely car-free campus
— Building accessibility increased
—Completion and implementation of the university site development plan
—Increase in investments for construction measures
— Organization of campus traffic, reorganization of the parking situation and expansion of bicycle parking facilities and charging facilities
— Planning and implementation of an accessibility concept
— Level of refurbishment backlog
— Environmental footprint of buildings — Campus mobility analysis
— Degree of accessibility
    5.6 Increasing attractiveness as an employer
With approximately 4,700 employees in science, administration and technology, Saarland University sees itself as a modern, forward-looking and diverse university that keeps pace with the demands of the times through excellence in research and teaching as well as a supportive working atmosphere that values every individual. This is reflected in the wide range of measures for all member groups in areas such as work and family, promotion of physical
activity and health, implementation of gender equality, professional development and structuring of workplaces and working hours.
The fact that Saarland University is already perceived as an attractive employer has been confirmed by relevant rankings such as Focus Business and the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research award. In order to qualify for the EU award for the
first time, a human resources strategy was devel- oped to offer researchers of all career levels an attractive working environment and promising career opportunities, including permanent positions for ongoing tasks.
58

employment and structuring
Complementing the agreements of the 'Future Contract for Strengthening Studies and Teaching in Higher Education', this contributes to achieving good work- ing conditions in research, a subject which is currently being intensively discussed in society in the context of healthy working and #ichbinhanna (#IAmHanna is a Twitter hash tag under which criticisms have been posted of the Academic Fixed-Term Contract Act – Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz).
However, given the strong competition between universities, the growing shortage of skilled workers and the current demographic change with a shift towards an employee's market, it continues to be crucial to promote and further optimize the attractive- ness of Saarland University as an employer. Frame- work conditions must also be created to offer attrac- tive entry opportunities for personnel in occupations where there are shortages of staff, despite often rigid legal requirements. This is the only way that the university can attract and retain outstanding research- ers and highly qualified and motivated employees in research support roles as one of the largest employers in the region. The university offers all of its employees a wide range of development opportunities through- out their employment and equally promotes aca- demic career paths beyond professorships (for exam- ple in research management) and research-sup- porting areas of administration and technology.
The university sees strengthening its attractiveness as an employer as a key strategy which needs to be pursued. The goal is to build and maintain a strong employer brand from which internal measures for motivating and retaining employees as well as external measures to optimize the recruitment of future employees are derived and implemented on the basis of the employer brand value proposition. Activities are specifically planned in the areas of recruitment management, job application manage- ment and life phase-oriented personnel manage- ment. From support during the application process to smooth recruitment and a successful start to work, continuous professional development and the opportunity to stay in contact throughout all phases of work and life, the entire process should be made as constructive and positive as possible for both current and future employees.
In order to cover the described demand for special- ists and managers in the best way possible in future, the university is continuously investing young people's vocational training with the aim of increas- ing the number of trainees and apprentices as well as students on a cooperative study programme. This will enable qualified employees to be recruited for the university and retained in the long term, talents to be identified at an early stage and personnel gaps to be counteracted in a targeted manner, particu-
larly in occupations where there are shortages of staff. In addition, needs-oriented and target group- specific training courses are continuously offered for all employee groups subject to available resources. The development programme established for existing and prospective managers will also be continuously developed and expanded.
To achieve these ambitious goals, the university is working closely with the Gender Equality Officer, staff representatives, interest groups and other advisory bodies.
59

       Goals
Measures
Ind icators
—Employer brand strengthened externally and internally (including an attractive working environment and communicated career opportunities)
— Appropriate ratio of permanent positions
— Demand for specialists and managers largely
met
— Stable number of trainees and apprentices as well as students on a cooperative study programme
— Implementation of measures in the areas of recruitment management, job application management and life phase-oriented personnel management
—Resource-dependent implementation of topic- and target group-specific profes- sional development opportunities for all employee groups
— Positioning in employer rankings and portals
— Results of the regular customer survey, administrative survey and the Bielefeld questionnaire
—Key performance indicators for vocational training in the area of administration and technology (number of trainees/apprentices and students on a cooperative study programme, success and failure figures, dropout rates and duration of vocational training)
— Key performance indicators for academic training (success and failure figures, dropout rates and duration of qualification training)
    5.7 Strengthening a gender- and diversity-sensitive family-friendly university culture
Theuniversityseesitselfasagender-sensitiveand diversity-aware institution that strives to meet the needs of its varied and valued workforce and that embodies an open and responsive university culture.
Greatimportanceshouldcontinuetobeattachedto this idea in future, also with regard to the univer- sity's development and achieving excellence in the core areas.
Fair working conditions that are family- and employee-friendly should also be continuously ensured through the targeted implementation of central measures.
60

employment and structuring
Gender mainstreaming and an intersectional gender policy are regarded as principles for action and guidance, implemented as an integral part of the structural and development plan and personnel decisions.
Research and teaching at the university are con- ducted in a gender-sensitive manner in compliance with the Saarland State Equal Opportunity Act and the university's accordingly derived gender equality plan. The latter will continue to be revised every four years in order to identify new needs and take into account social developments and internal develop- ments at the university. In addition, faculty gender equality plan will ensure initiatives geared to the needs of the faculties and tailored to the respective academic cultures in future. Saarland University will also continue to participate in national and EU-wide calls for proposals to promote gender equality. The university's gender equality plan complies with the EU-wide criteria for a gender equality plan which have been in force since 2022, significantly increasing the chances of a positive outcome. To ensure the successful continuation of this strategy, Saarland University will in future provide indicators and data that can be retrieved at any time and differentiated by gender. Furthermore, the university is consis- tently and sustainably committed to gender equality and takes particular account of young researchers
through various support programmes – especially with regard to the career prospects in academia. As well as providing individual support, all initiatives aim to strengthen gender sensitivity in the univer- sity's overall culture and contribute to integrating the perspective of gender into research, studies and teaching, such as the active recruitment of out- standing female scientists and the establishment of gender-sensitive appointment guidelines.
Within the framework of its diversity policy, Saarland University will continue to take into account all diversity dimensions of its members and create a diversity-sensitive environment for studying and working. It also cultivates an open and responsive university culture and aims to emphasize its positive attitude towards diversity in all management and decision-making processes. In line with its diversity policy, guidelines for diversity management are being drawn up to foster a university free of discrimi- nation and take account of the internationalization strategy.
Saarland University is a place of teaching and research where studying and working combined with family responsibilities is supported both structurally and in its values. As a university for everyone, Saarland University respects the unique challenges faced by parents and carers in order to
pursue the goal of being a family-friendly university and achieve equity as comprehensively as possible. The wide range of support measures and initiatives to promote the compatibility of family life and studying/work or care is continuously being expanded as needed to ensure a suitable working environment at all times as well as the university's ability to rise to the challenges of the future in general. A key factor in this area is the rising demand for child daycare places. The establishment of a forest group at the Unikate day-care centre has already gone some way to meeting this need. In the medium to long term, the university plans to create further places as part of the CISPA expansion. To support the recruitment of excellent employees at all levels in the competition for the best minds, in particular in the area of research, the university is expanding its dual-career services.
It is also eliminating barriers to accessibility, com- pensating for disadvantages and opening up opportunities. In order to support students and employees with health impairments, the university intends to make (digital) teaching more accessible. With regard to studying and working conditions, the achievement of accessibility at the university is subject to a continuous improvement process (accessible campus).
61

       Goals
Measures
Ind icators
— Sensitization and increased awareness of all university employees regarding the issue of (sexualized) discrimination and violence as well as the establishment of a discrimination-sensitive environment with proactive measures to reduce the transgression of personal boundaries
— Promotion of comprehensive gender equality via gender mainstreaming
— Creation of a diversity-sensitive environment for studying and working (including becoming a discrimination-free university)
— Family friendliness comprehensively achieved
— Accessibility increased
— Continuous updating of the gender equality plan and establishment of faculty gender equality plans, implementation of resulting measures
—Measures for consistently implementing gender equality in studies, teaching and research
—Development of guidelines for diversity management based on diversity monitoring
— Continuous and needs-oriented expansion of initiatives to promote the compatibility of family life and studying/working (e.g. establishment of the Unikate forest group and planning of additional day-care places
— Specific pilot projects to ensure accessibility of (digital) teaching and websites
— Further consideration of the issue of how to prevent and deal with behaviour and actions that transgress personal boundaries in cooperation with all Saarland higher education institutions
—Cascade model in the context of the university's gender equality plan and the faculty gender equality plans
— Evaluation, documentation and achievement of qualitative targets in the faculties
— Measures and initiatives carried out, evaluation (establishment of the topic documented, need for guidance and advice identified, results of surveys: measurable awareness/ measurable satisfaction)
— Day-care occupancy rate and child-care rate
— Rankings where applicable (e.g. BEST study)
    62

employment and structuring
5.8 Further development of internal financial management
In the area of internal financial management, Saarland University has made significant adjust- ments in recent years. These include forward- looking financial planning over several years, the introduction of a new budgeting model combined with extensive budget autonomy for faculties, institutions and administration, as well as the establishment of a strategy fund, a research fund, a teaching and studying fund and an internationaliza- tion fund to support important measures and projects in the respective areas. In order to maintain a positive return on the investment of current external funds, the university has set up a special fund which will be gradually drawn on over the next few years in order to implement key future projects in the university's investment programme.
Building on the established functioning financial basis, the task is now to further develop the existing instruments in the context of the transformation processes described and the university's service- oriented focus over the coming years. The core aim is to further strengthen the intelligent use of future financial leeway with regard to stability, continuity and flexibility through internal financial manage- ment.
As the university uses a considerable amount of its own liquid assets to finance its major future tasks, it
is becoming increasingly important to further develop its liquidity management. This means being able to take better account of inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents, particularly in the area of external funding, and to incorporate them adequately into the liquidity forecast.
In connection with further developing budgeting, it is also necessary to examine whether the remaining position management system can be replaced, taking into account capacity requirements. With regard to the university's internal target and perfor- mance agreements in conjunction with the faculty development plans and all other internal develop- ment plans, this would enable a high degree of flexibility in the management and planning of budgets, including the coordinated implementation and further development of how new appointment offers are assessed.
In addition to the above-mentioned framework conditions, various other factors must be taken into account for the forthcoming plans which will have a considerable impact on the development of the university but which are unable to be specified in detail at present. These include plans at the federal level for comprehensive reforms of medicine and dentistry study programmes and psychotherapy training as well as outstanding questions regarding
the continuation of funding that has so far been made available on a fixed-term basis, for example the funding of tenure-track professorships from the federal-state WISNA tenure-track programme. The effects of the 'Future Contract for Strengthening Studies and Teaching in Higher Education' with changed framework conditions and new parame- ters for the distribution of funds also cannot yet be fully foreseen at this point in time.
63

       Goals
Measures
Ind icators
—Stable and flexible financial management
— Further development of liquidity management — Replacement of position management
— Financial planning, budget plan, annual financial statements
—State subsidy rate depending on the key performance indicators as listed in the Research chapter
    5.9 Further development of governance structure
In order to implement the outlined goals in all areas in the course of the development of the university, it is important to implement adequate control mecha- nisms in addition to a stable and flexible financial management system. Together with the university development plan, the faculty development plans drawn up by the faculties provide the framework for the further development of the university. The FDPs help to ensure the reliability of long-term coordina- tion and planning, even when people change positions. Furthermore, together with the UDP, they serve to define the framework for the target and development discussions between faculties and the University Board and to develop the university's internal performance-based funding system in joint
coordination. A comprehensive discussion of targets and planning of measures also includes clarifying conflicting targets, prioritizing different projects and taking into account questions of financing and causal or time-related links between individual projects or measures. The ideal outcome is an overall plan for the university with specific targets, measures and time frames, representing a significant step forward in terms of content-related consistency and transparency for all stakeholders. Close interlinking also provides the optimum basis for further developing performance-based funding at the university. The future internal performance- based funding system will be based on three pillars. In addition to the personal performance bonuses of
the individual professors, target fulfilment based on the achievement of defined key performance indicators will be a further element. Support for the expansion of new approaches constitutes the third pillar, including the development of new study programmes, increasing capacities and support for spin-offs (to name just a few examples of possible areas of action). This enables additional funds to be used for the further development of the respective faculty in order to achieve the goals of the UDP. The funding allocation procedure is set out in the following figure:
64

employment and structuring
 Performance-based funding (LoM)
  Personal performance bonus
Individual performance (currently under revision: criteria and duration of bonus)
Faculty- or subject-based allocation of funds
    Allocation of funds based on key performance indicators (KPIs)
Global level goal achievement, Faculty contribution to UDP
Strategic allocation of funds
Targeted steering (start-up funding)
Performance
Criteria
Basis for decision Use of funds
Performance-based funding (LoM)
    Person
Performance significantly above average over several years (i.e. special performance bonuses)
Performance meets criteria for special performance bonuses
KPIs
–
Special performance bonus system
Private
Faculty or department
   Contribution to goals (global level) and achievement of goals (faculty level)
Contribution made to goal (global level), Goals achieved (faculty level)
Implementation of central measures (faculty level)
Preliminary performance at the beginning
of the measure
Measure determined between University Board and faculty (faculty level)
Measure
          KPIs
– Global goals
Free
KPIs
– Faculty level goals
Free
     In addition to the aspects already outlined here, the governance structures at the various levels of the
university will be examined and further developed by joint agreement.
FIGURE 16: Development option for performance-based funding allocation
65

 UdS 2030
inspire and reach
FIGURE 17:
As part of its Third Mission, Saarland University engages with society, business and politics.
66

inspire and reach
FIGURE 18:
The Third Mission of Saarland University at a glance
 Transfer in society and business
 Source of impetus for the region
 Technology transfer
 Interaction with society
 Save energy campaign, power supply with 100% green electricity, saving energy in the workplace, series of lectures on climate protection
   Third Mission
 Events for the public, including open days, lecture series, science slam
 Saarland Student Services –
Sustainable restaurants: reusable instead of disposable, climate-friendly meals, fair trade ingredients
 Numerous activities and initiatives for school students, including children's university, lab courses, early-access programme (Juniorstudium)
 Sustainability
 First Fairtrade University in Germany
  Science communication
 Lifelong learning: courses for first-year students, students, individuals with professional experience, people interested in professional development, students with non-enrolled status (Gasthörer)

  6 Third Mission
Beyond its core tasks in teaching, studying and research, Saarland University shoulders a high level of social responsibility and is therefore committed to cultivating close ties with its environment, in particular society and business. In future, the university will fulfil its Third Mission to an even greater degree and will continue to involve itself in topics and activities that are of high relevance to its environment. The diverse activities of the university
have an impact on the entire region in a multitude of ways and are also a mirror of society. Saarland University aims to be a pioneer and role model, promoting ethical principles and values that are also manifested in our teaching and research activities as well as with tolerance, respect and diversity by training the academics and leaders of the future and impacting society in numerous different ways. At the same time, the COVID-19 pandemic and climate
change show how research is needed to solve the huge challenges faced by society. By leveraging its potential, Saarland University can address pressing social and ecological challenges and play a leading role as a pioneer for the necessary transformation in Germany.
6.1 Sustainability in research, teaching and university operations
Saarland University aims to integrate the concept of sustainability not only in teaching and research, but also to advance the university in this regard by incorporating sustainability into everyday university life. To achieve this goal, the university will further expand its activities as follows:
— Sustainability concept: The university will develop sustainability guidelines and governance struc- tures to further support and promote the multi- tude of activities in the three areas of sustainability (ecology, economy and society).
— The university is consolidating measures in its university climate protection concept and working towards becoming carbon-neutral by 2030.
Sustainability is also taken into account in topic areas such as construction and mobility (see chapter 5.5).
— The university networks with partner universities in the region (e.g. UniGR) and in Europe (e.g. T4EU, Environmental Transformation topic area) in order to work together on the sustainability goals and make progress in these areas.
—Sustainable development education/sustain- ability as teaching content: teaching, learning and research are no longer conceivable without taking into account how processes can be sustainably developed. Saarland University will therefore fulfil its role model function as a
university for society and impart knowledge about sustainable development both to its members and society. In addition to integrating the topic into various study programmes, extra- curricular events will also contribute to this transfer of knowledge. Sustainability is not just taken at face value; it must be sustainably and systematically embedded in existing structures.
68

inspire and reach
6.2 Expansion of knowledge and technology transfer and science communication
Saarland University strongly supports the possibility of transferring research results and technologies to the economy and society. It particularly focuses on its special geographical location and, as a European university, thinks across borders when it comes to transfer, start-up support, cooperation with local companies and science communication. Science com- munication plays a central role in transferring research results to society. To ensure a fruitful exchange, science must actively seek dialogue with society, not only to build and maintain the necessary trust, but also to receive valuable input from its environment. Saarland University will therefore continue to strengthen its activities in the following areas:
—The university communicates science-based findings and expertise to society by offering a wide range of continuing professional develop- ment, training and information services as well as supporting press and PR not only for its members but for a broad target group – from schoolchildren to professionals to retirees. In accordance with its education mandate for society, the university meets the lifelong individual continuing educa- tion needs of citizens by providing innovative and flexible learning formats, for example via courses for students with non-enrolled status (Gasthörer). Saarland University will ensure its visibility in the area of transfer to society in order to consolidate
and strengthen its diverse activities and take into account the sustainability of knowledge transfer.
— The university will continue to expand its position as an innovation driver for Saarland by promoting technology transfer and start-ups in the university environment. To facilitate this process, an Innova- tion Center will be created as a meeting place on campus that will provide a platform for collabora- tive forms of networking where science and society can exchange ideas (see chapter 3.3).
— The university is committed to ensuring that scien- tific thinking and methodologies are familiar to the general public and can be applied in the 'real world', which is proving to be a very significant goal, not only in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. To achieve this goal, the university uses innovative educational formats as a means of com- municating the results of current research to society.
— Saarland University actively involves society in its teaching and research activities in keeping with the principles of Open Science and Citizen Science, enabling society and the scientific community to have transparent and open access to its scientific data, findings and publications as far as possible. A dialogue-oriented communication culture makes it possible to absorb valuable input from society and business.
—Saarland University strives to address target groups that have not been reached or have not been reached enough so far in order to enable 'science for everyone'. This requires not only people to come to the university's two campuses, but for the university to reach out to people and pursue an outreach communication strategy, for example through projects in rural areas or by using vacant spaces in city centres.
— To achieve the aforementioned goals, the univer- sity empowers its academics and researchers by offering appropriate training and support in the field of science communication and promotes outreach activities. This explicitly includes sup- porting researchers in the event of aggressive attacks, a development which has been increas- ingly observed since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
— With regard to the accountability of researchers to society, Saarland University ensures that the principles of good scientific practice and scientific integrity it has adopted are known to its research- ers at all levels of their careers. The university sup- ports compliance through its ombudsman system as well as its internal and external ethics commit- tees and offers advice and support for all research projects via the relevant bodies.
69

  6.3 Source of impetus for the region
Saarland University demonstrates a special level of commitment and responsibility for its region. It actively practices the cross-border philosophy in Saarland and represents a social, economic and structural 'innovation engine' for the Greater Region. This commitment must be developed further.
— The university sees itself as a meeting place for people from the region. Through its activities, it brings people into contact with each other locally and promotes exchange and dialogue, helping creative and new ideas to emerge. The university will further increase its attractiveness through changes on campus such as new buildings and the promotion of an active campus life (see chapter 1.4).
— The Saarland University and State Library (SULB) will continue to fulfil its state library duties in accordance with the requirements set out in the Saarland Media Act. In addition, a focus area will be the digitization of state library media. In the context of open access, supporting publishing scientists and researchers from the region and providing infrastructure in the form of the SaarDok repository are becoming increasingly important. This will be further expanded in addi- tion to the Saarland Bibliography (see chapter 5).
— Multilingualism and the continuous develop- ment of linguistic accessibility of services, espe- cially at the administrative level, are practiced on campus. To promote this, the Trilingual Campus is being established in which German, English and French contribute to active internationalization (see chapter 4).
—Via its university outpatient clinics, Saarland University offers a special transfer service. At an early stage in their training, future specialists have the opportunity to apply their skills in practice, promoting professionalism and inter- action with patients.
70

Concluding remarks
The University Development Plan 2030 was prepared for Saarland University by the University Board with the participation of the faculties, institutions, divi- sions, staff units, officers and university committees. It was approved by the University Council in its meeting on 30 September 2022. Faculty development plans have been drawn up for all six faculties to support the UDP 2030.
The University Board is responsible for the implemen- tation of the UDP 2030. Responsibility for the various topics is shared between all areas of the university. During the term of the UDP, continuous monitoring will be carried out, accompanied by regular reports on the status of implementation by the University Board in the Extended University Board, Senate and Univer- sity Council. Halfway through the term of the UDP, a review is planned with adjustment of the goals and measures if necessary.
The University Board would like to thank all those involved in the creation of the University Development Plan for their constructive participation, comments and additions. It is only with the collective efforts of the entire university that we will be able to successfully implement the goals of the 2030 UDP. The University Board would like to thank the members of the university for their commitment and willingness to provide support.