Reimagining SOAS for the 21stCentury
8 July 2021 
1. Vision & Methodology
2. Pillars:
I. Student Responsiveness
II. Research -Intensity 
III. International Partnerships
IV. Institutional Community 
3. Enablers:
i. Financial Sustainability
ii. Institutional Effectiveness
a) People
b) Information & Technology
c) Estates
d) Fundraising
e) Public ImageContents
4. Opportunities, Risks & Mitigation
5. Executive Summary of Strategic 
Actions 
6. Appendices:
i. Strategic Planning Process
ii. Questions Informing the Strategic 
Planning Process
iii. Application & Conversion Trends
iv. Race Equity Action Plan 2021 -24
v. Statement on Racism & Anti -
Blackness at SOAS
vi. SOAS Charter Against 
Discrimination
vii. Recommendations of the Academic 
Freedom Committee
viii. Institutional Scorecard
i.Student Responsiveness
Through our teaching, we are preparing a new generation of graduates, professionals & citizens who are 
technically skilled, socially responsive & committed to the building of an equitable planetary community. We will 
do this by widening participation & pioneering a new model of education which transcends national boundaries. 
ii.Research -Intensity
The world needs universities that can serve as knowledge bases that speak to the immediate & future concerns 
of all of humanity. Most of our current knowledge bases surface only parts of our collective knowledge 
inheritance & speak to the concerns of those who are most empowered. Our vision is to build a research -
intensive university which is world -class but also responsive to the marginalized communities of our world. 
iii.International Partnerships
At the heart of this project is a partnership with the learning institutions of the world to make the development of 
this new knowledge base a collective endeavour. Rethinking international partnerships is important in this
historical moment when all our challenges are transnational in character & require us to build human & 
institutional capacities which are both local & planetary . 
iv.Institutional Community
We are committed to ensuring a socially just institutional community in which all our members experience 
belonging & are treated with civility & respect.Vision
Reading the Market & Mitigating the Risks
We are in a changing environment because of the pandemic & other new circumstances, both
domestically & globally. This means that risks & opportunities are evolving fast.
In this context, this Strategic Plan is intended to be a living document. It articulates a vision but should 
allow us to continuously assess the market & quickly adapt, under the stewardship of the Board of 
Trustees.
Enabling Agility
The UG & PG markets are evolving: 
•The UG market is undergoing significant political contestation on fees.
•The PG market might benefit from the increase in household income globally , although the pandemic 
might have an impact.
We therefore should pursue growth in both markets initially & only adjust our mix in favour of PG if &
when our student recruitment data proves that this is a sensible course to take.
Research income is also subject to external pressures so we should not be over -reliant on this income.
Departments will have discretion on how they generate income from the 3 available
sources: student numbers, research income & endowments, to ensure that we remain responsive to
shifts in the funding landscape.Methodology
Pillar I: Student Responsiveness
How will we enable this? 
1.Attractive curriculum portfolio
2.Revised academic programme structure
3.Comprehensive Student Support Structures
4. Excellent Student ExperiencePillar I: Student Responsiveness
The learning experience should be:
•Grounded in our regional expertise
•Enabling of integration with international partners
•Interdisciplinary
•Inclusive & decolonising
•Undertaken through multiple teaching modalities, including face -to-face, online & distance, blended 
& MOOCs  
•Interdisciplinary courses across departments
•International partnerships that enable co -curricula, co -teaching & co -
credentials
•Good, innovative & inclusive teaching & assessments, embedding & 
championing decolonising work
•Student voice incorporated in the pedagogy of learning
Attractive 
Curriculum 
PortfolioPillar I: Student Responsiveness
•Guided curriculum –reduce diversity of module offer to enable development 
& growth
•An academic calendar that supports flexible delivery of teaching & 
assessment
•Academic programmes across departments –reduce silos & enable staff 
working in teams
•WAM –transparent, fair workloads that work for staff & the institution
Revised 
Academic 
Programme
Structure
•Deliver responsive, proactive, effective & accessible academic & well -
being support
•Provide preparation for work & further study that ensures graduates at 
all levels are positioned to have impact on the world in the roles of the 
future
•Offer clear & regular opportunities to listen & respond to the diversity of 
student voice
Comprehensive 
Student Support 
Structures
•Provide a transformative student experience that widens participation 
& seeks to redress structural inequalities 
•Deliver an experience that supports excellent educational & personal 
development outcomes for all individuals in our diverse student 
community
•Work with students as co -creators of curricular & co -curricular 
experiences
•Enable mobility of staff & students
•Working with the student union to appropriately upgrade student 
facilities to enhance their student experience
Excellent 
Student 
ExperiencePillar I: Student Responsiveness
Pillar II: Research -Intensity
Pillar II: Research -Intensity
•There is broad support for a return to a research -intensive institution .
•We therefore need to:
1.Set clear, qualitative & quantitative research targets 
so that we can define where we want to go & 
monitor progress
2.Begin to shift to a majority postgraduate institution 
with a more mature student demographic
Research Targets & Culture
Research Income
Increase research income by 30% by 2025/26. Ensure a mix of large, medium & small 
grants, & increase large grants from 20% to 30% of portfolio.
Quantity 
Increase outputs to achieve institutional average of 3 per academic per year (w/weighting 
for books) every 5 years. 
Quality
Increase high quality outputs to minimum of 3 per academic (w/weighting for books) every 
5 years. Increase overall SOAS citations by 10% by 2022/23. 
Knowledge Exchange, Impact & Enterprise
Ensure 50% of academics engaged with KE, I & E activity by 2025/26. Increase HEIF -able 
knowledge exchange income by 100% to £2.1M by 2025/26.
Research Vitality, Environment & Culture
Increase competitiveness by investing in fellowships, researcher development, impact 
capacity, creative communications, practice -based associates, creative communications, 
equitable partnerships & methodological innovation.Pillar II: Research -Intensity
* These targets will be redeliberated as part of the development of the research plan. 
•What should be our UG/PG split? We need to determine this in relation to our context, mandate, 
size, disciplinary portfolio & competitive position.Pillar II: Research -Intensity
Institution PG Percentage Total Students
SOAS 42% 5,524
UCL 46% 38,000
MIT * 67% 6,000
LSE 55% 11,000* MIT has a distinctive
disciplinary portfolio & 
funding system which 
hasenabled it to carve 
out a niche compared to 
other top US institutions .
•LSE is our closest comparator in terms of size & disciplinary portfolio:
•SOAS could achieve a similar market positioning within the humanities & social sciences
•We therefore should adopt 55% PG as our 5 -year goal
•This target is supported by our student recruitment data: UG applications have steadily declined ( -16% 
since 2018), while PGT applications have steadily increased (+7% since 2018) (see Appendix III: 
Application & Conversion Trends).
•However, we are in an evolving market which is difficult to read; we therefore need to continue to 
target UG growth alongside PG growth, while assessing the feasibility of our PG targets & making 
calculated judgements going forward. 
Pillar III: International Partnerships
Pillar III: International Partnerships
•Are Africa, Asia & the Middle East areas of study, or the lens through which we interrogate & 
understand the planetary questions of our time? 
•The latter view is the preference of the SOAS community & we need to think through its 
operationalization.
•There is an urgent need for equitable partnerships globally. All our challenges –pandemics, climate 
change, inequality, political & social polarization –are transnational in character & cannot be resolved 
within the context of a single nation state. We are going to require institutional & human capacities 
around the world.
•But our current global partnership model undermines this because it attracts talented people away 
from the Global South & weakens institutions in those regions. 
•Equitable global partnerships are an explicit goal of all institutions but have not been seriously 
implemented because it is difficult to build equal partnerships in an unequal world. 
•This is where we can make a difference. 
•If we can develop a new model of partnerships & a business model that sustains it, we could have a 
dramatic national & planetary impact. 
•Our distinctiveness must not be simply our offering in Bloomsbury, London but the collective offering 
through all of our partnerships.
•We need to make our size our advantage –be nimble & innovative.
Pillar III: International Partnerships
•Co-establish & co -
manage 3 -5 research 
institutes in partnership 
with research 
universities in the 
Global South.
•Partnerships will be 
collectively decided by 
HoDs & academics.
•They will cover different 
geographies & thematic 
areas.
•These partnerships will 
bring in about 75 -100 
scholars who could be 
drawn on for their 
research & supervisory 
capacity, including for 
doctoral students.
•Partnerships will be with 
established, substantive 
universities & other HEIs.
•Research institutes will be co -
financed by these universities.
•Initial financing for 2 years will 
be needed (potentially through 
strategic funds but this will 
need to be collectively 
decided).
•Will only proceed once there 
is a plan on how to generate 
sustainable financing after first 
2 years ( teaching, research or 
donor income ).
•Institutes could apply for UKRI 
grants as they will be co -
owned by SOAS (normal 
SOAS overheads would 
apply).
Vision
 Financial Sustainability
 Operations
•Enable equitable global 
partnerships.
•Build human & institutional 
capacities in the Global 
South.
•Enable SOAS to borrow 
academic expertise in 
specific areas to subvent
expenditure.
•Distinguish SOAS against 
our competitors by enabling 
our students to do modules 
at partner institutions, 
through online & distance 
learning, blended learning, 
or study abroad.
•Our students will have 
learning experiences not 
only in Bloomsbury, London 
but also in Accra, Tokyo, 
Delhi, Shanghai, etc. 
Pillar IV: Institutional Community
Take action on racial justice Ensure collegiality & respect
Enhance our capacity to listen & respond Foster an enabling environmentHow do we ensure a socially just 
community?
•A dedicated senior person, reporting to the Director, should be appointed to engage key 
stakeholders to develop a detailed institutional community action plan with clear targets. 
•The Equality & Diversity Committee will oversee this pillar. Progress reports should be a 
standing item at BoT & EB meetings.Pillar IV: Institutional Community
•Embed the SOAS Charter Against Discrimination, which commits us to:
ØValuing diversity, critical enquiry & disagreement
ØBeing committed to tolerance, respect & collegiality 
ØStanding firm against all forms of discrimination 
•Implement the recommendations of the Academic Freedom Panel.
•Ensure effective implementation of the SOAS Dignity & Respect policy, & 
rapid, fair & effective resolution of disputes & complaints.
Ensure 
collegiality & 
respect
•Implement the Race Equity Action Plan 2021 -24, which takes into account 
the recommendations of the Statement on Racism & Anti -Blackness at 
SOAS.
•Set appropriate targets for increased recruitment, retention, progression & 
representation of ethnically underrepresented employees & students over 
the next 5 years, across all ranks. These targets will be developed & 
regularly updated by the Race Equity Action Plan.
•Identify & address structural barriers to degree outcomes, research grants 
& career progression for employees & students of colour including 
through grants & scholarships, inclusive curriculum, & a culture of 
accountability.
•Provide increased anti -racism support, guidance & mandatory training for 
all employees & students.
Take action on 
racial justicePillar IV: Institutional Community
•Create Director's leadership programme for all staff.
•Integrate & deliver on EDI Strategic Plan commitments on culture, HR, 
learning & scholarship, student experience & student outcomes, including 
on inclusive curricula, classroom experiences & assessment processes.
•Enhance staff wellbeing & student support.
•Ensure professionalism as articulated in more detail under Institutional 
Effectiveness.
Foster an 
enabling 
environment
•Host regular all -staff & all -student forums.
•Ensure training in coaching & alternative dispute resolution skills for 
managers. 
•Create enabling & supportive spaces for institutional community 
dialogues.
Enhance our 
capacity to 
listen & 
respondPillar IV: Institutional Community
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
•UK higher education has been through seismic shifts & significant challenges over the last 20 years, 
partly to do with the marketisation of HE, partly to do with fees.
•Every other university in the UK responded by adapting their strategy –by growing; they increased 
their turnover & used this to invest back in the university.
•SOAS added subject areas & the Foundation Year, but in 2019 its student numbers were smaller than 
they were in 2010.
•We need to grow by at least an additional 1,000 students in order to achieve financial 
sustainability & start building reserves so that we can invest back into the university.
•On average we want to achieve a surplus each year of £3m, plus another £6-7m which will 
enable us to invest in IT & Estates.
•In addition, our strategic goal is to increase PG numbers to 55% of our student demographic. 
•This target is supported by our student recruitment data: UG applications have steadily declined ( -16% 
since 2018), while PGT applications have steadily increased (+7% since 2018) (see Appendix III: 
Application & Conversion Trends).
•A higher proportion of UG students enables a greater predictability of finances because of the longer 
academic programme . However, risks are on the horizon in this regard, especially through the Augar
Review which could reduce UG fees to £7,500.
•Given this evolving student market which is difficult to read, we need to continue to target UG growth 
alongside PG growth, while assessing the feasibility of our PG targets & making calculated 
judgements going forward.
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
SOAS Compared to Research Universities –Total FTE Students Over 5 Years
•There has been significant growth in UK universities, but SOAS has shrunk: 
Ø2009/10 –5,039 FTE students* 
Ø2019/20 –4,375 FTE students*
•SOAS is half the size of the next biggest institution in this group (LSE).
* Excludes Foundation Year, diplomas & certificates, exchange & occasionals , Language Centre
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
We need to think through financial sustainability at 3 levels:
Institutional
Centres
& 
InstitutesDepartmentalThis will require:
Ø Financial transparency & literacy 
across SOAS
Ø Monitoring & red -flagging of 
expenditure
Ø HoDs & DoPS (or equivalent) acting 
as strategic managers to drive income 
& contain expenditure
Total Costs (Red) & Revenue (Blue), with Indirect Costs (Yellow) & Direct Costs (Green)Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Transformation & Change brought down our costs –now we need to focus on increasing income.
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Student Numbers as Agreed with Depts in 2020/21
•Assumes cost increases of 80% of new income every year, including 60% reinvestment in staff.
•PG growth is in PGT only.
•Estates can accommodate growth in student numbers which results in a maximum 
of 6,500 FTE students after 5 years. 
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Student Numbers Targeting 45% UG / 55% PG
•Enables us to slowly decrease UG while gradually increasing PG, allowing time 
for us to test our market assumptions.
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Student Numbers Targeting 45% UG / 55% PG
•This scenario is feasible & should inform our 5 -year targets.
•PG students who want to get an understanding of a particular area or 
discipline.
•PG students from Africa, Asia & the Middle East who want a UK 
certification in order to access the global job market.
•UG students from the UK who want to understand a particular part of the 
world because they have a particular social identity, or an interest in that 
part of the world.
•UG students who are children of upwardly mobile families in Africa, Asia 
& the Middle East & want a British or American certification.
•SOAS is seeing remarkable growth in overseas PGT applications (+55% 
y-y).
•Potential growth subject areas: Economics, Finance & Management, 
Law, Politics.
•Additional growth subject areas (needs further market research & 
development of enabling partnerships): Psychology, Human Geography, 
Pandemics, Climate Change.
Target Markets
Growth MarketsEnabler I: Financial Sustainability
Through our student recruitment strategy, we will focus on making SOAS a university of choice, rather than 
a university of recruitment. 
Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
•There are 3 levers for increasing income at the departmental level:
Ø Student numbers
Ø Research income (average overhead of 30%)
Ø Endowments
•Departments will structure their income using a mix of these 3 levers which is most appropriate for 
each individual department.
•The contribution model will finance institutional support.
•Pursuit of research income & endowments will be incentivised by enabling departments to retain 
most of this (after contributions).
•Distribution of departmental surpluses:
Ø 30% to strategic fund, research office, institutional support (to be collectively decided upon)
Ø 70% to be retained by departments and distributed as follows:
o Min. 20% for PG scholarships 
o Min. 5% to research account of grant holder (in the case of research income)
o Remainder to be retained by department for its own use
Departmental Financial Sustainability
Centres & institutes enable the congregation of scholars for 
focussed interventions in thematic areas, as a vehicle for 
building partnerships, influence & critical mass.
But they have to be financially sustainable & externally 
resourced. While many centres recover most of their costs, 
we currently fund most of the cost of our institutes directly. 
A review of centres & institutes is underway. Institutes will be 
given a year to develop a cost -recovery strategy & become 
cost-neutral to SOAS, or be reorganised / closed. Enabler I: Financial Sustainability
Enabler II: Institutional Effectiveness
Enabler II: Institutional Effectiveness
There are many people at SOAS who work very hard & everyone is operating under difficult conditions. 
However, independent of the pandemic, we have had serious issues with effectiveness & efficiencies. This 
is largely a product of 3 distinct elements:
Staff Productivity
Systems & 
Infrastructure Software & 
Integration
We need to address these factors using a balance of incentives & penalties.
People
Largely permanent workforce, with 
development opportunities & 
internal progression, competing 
externally as appropriateFlexible working patterns including 
remote working, reflecting 
operational needs & promoting a 
campus -based community
Predominantly teaching & 
research academics, alongside a 
smaller Academic -Focused 
Education pathway & research -
only communitySmall proportion of primarily fixed 
term & short -term fractional staff in 
carefully defined areasSome principles for an 
effective SOAS workforce
•Implement performance management for all 
staff.
•Finalise Workload Allocation Model & 
implement Academic Performance 
Framework.
•Implement promotion & reward schemes that 
increase retention of productive & talented 
staff.
•Manage poor performance through review & 
implementation of probation, training & 
performance management procedures.
•Benchmark & actively manage our benefits in 
relation to our institutional peers.
Enhancing productivity & accountabilityPeople
A detailed HR plan aligned with our institutional strategy needs to be developed & approved, & should 
include the following:
1.Enhancing productivity & accountability
2.Promoting staff wellbeing
3.Decasualising our staffing establishment
•Recognise good mental health & wellbeing as 
a cornerstone of a successful SOAS.
•Implement SOAS Mental Health Strategy.
•Workplace adjustments in place on campus & 
working remotely.
•Keep the benefits of remote working post -
Covid -19.
•Flexible working patterns that promote good 
work -life balance. 
•Inclusive teams & meetings wherever you are 
working.
Promoting wellbeing
In alignment 
with legal 
regulationsPeople –Decasualising our staffing establishment
SOAS has 185 staff who are on part -time or fractional contracts. This 
constitutes 10.02% of academic FTE when the sector average is 4.3%. We 
need to bring SOAS in line with the sector average by doing the following:
Retain fractional appointments as far as possible for GTAs (particularly 
from among our doctoral students & PG community). This is an important 
part of developing our academic pipeline.
Reduce fractional employment of academic FTE to 4.3% by 2025. This 
needs to be actively stewarded with explicit 3 -year targets for 
departments.
Future fractional appointments outside of GTAs must be based on 
operational requirements. In addition, these appointments must be:
Limited to specific disciplines such as 
languages, or defined roles & purposes 
such as standing in for staff with social & 
academic obligations
Approved by a 
committee 
chaired by the 
Provost 
Implemented in a 
manner which 
avoids 
casualisation
We need to invest in a safe & scalable network & 
computing capacity that can respond to new 
business models that support our activity in London 
& other parts of the world. We also need to 
modernise, integrate & simplify our bloated suite of 
software systems.
Key principles:
ØStandardise our technology platforms
ØRefresh core elements of our infrastructure that 
enable blended learning & harness cloud 
services
ØInvest in more cyber security measures
ØProvide joined up systems built on sound 
business processes & high quality data
ØDevelop IT governance structures on software 
procurement & data management
Develop appropriate skills among IT staff:
ØReduce complexity of our technologies to 
minimise need for upskilling 
ØDevelop digital champions in professional 
service areas
ØEnable training of workforce
ØManage performance of individual staff
Develop a mixed IT skills plan:
ØRetain core in -house skills
ØShare services with other higher education 
institutions where beneficial
ØPartner technology companies on activities 
where beneficial
Infrastructure, Systems & Software
 Skills & PartnershipsInformation & Technology
•A detailed IT plan aligned with our institutional strategy needs to be developed & approved, so that o urIT 
systems are able to support our strategic actions. 
•Initial assessments suggest we may need to invest about £23m over 5 years. 
Essential maintenance & repair
•Toilet upgrades
•Enhanced lighting/repair ceilings
•Improved decoration in key high use areas
•Decluttering/simplifying our campus & core spaces 
Efficiency & utilisation
•Survey of occupancy & utilisation of space
•Re-planning selected areas to improve usage & flexibility e.g., 
reduce on -site book stack in favour of study spaces
•Improved used of core circulation & gathering spaces e.g., with study 
pods, temporary exhibitions
•Look to opportunities for improved, shared office workspaces
Creating new opportunities & spaces
•Increased & enhanced single & group study spaces
•Dedicated spaces for PGR & PGT community
•Better use of outdoor spaces
•Improved teaching spaces
We will advance our Estates strategy & modernise existing infrastructure 
with a view to reducing our carbon footprint as per existing & new plans.Corridor, Philips BuildingEstates
Key objective –focus on a range of small projects with immediate & beneficial impact for SOAS, with 
anticipated investment of around £3.5M per year.

Fundraising
Current Endowments by Department : 
46 Permanent & 104 Expendable (12 Posts)
•SOAS has passed a resolution to adopt a 
Total Returns (TR) approach to managing 
our endowments. 
•This means that in addition to spending 
income, we can now spend some of the 
capital gains accrued by the endowment 
funds.
•This could enable us to increase our annual 
returns (funds must be spent in line with the 
purposes & objects of the original donation).
•We need to benchmark & actively manage 
the performance of our endowments to 
approximate the global standard of 4%.
Fundraising should be revitalised with a focus on 
endowments in 2 areas:
1. Scholarships:
•Must enable growth in student numbers, 
particularly from the Global South.
2. Subvention of labour & other costs:
•Identify what our existing endowments cover, 
the gaps that still need to be financed & who to 
approach
•Identify & fundraise in new areas
Fundraising should prioritise & target notable & 
wealthy alumni, as well as UK, US, European & 
relevant Global South foundations.
We might also want to explore other financial 
arrangements such as social development bonds.
Increase interest & returns from existing 
endowments
Grow number & overall size of endowment 
portfolioFundraising
Public Image 
Re-establish 
SOAS’ image in 
the public 
domain
Communication must 
not only be internally 
but also externally 
directed
Go beyond the Director 
& focus on getting our 
research into the public 
domain, perhaps via an 
online public magazine
High profile lecture 
series, such as a 
Director’s Leadership 
Series on the 
discontents of our 
worlds
Expanded set of 
lectures & public 
engagements by 
academics, 
departments, centres & 
institutes
Opportunities, Risks & Mitigation
Risks
•An immediate short -term risk is the 
pandemic & the continued spread globally.
•Augar Report: A more medium -term risk is 
the future of UG fees & the threat of UG 
fee reduction to £7,500.
•The broader political environment is 
hostile to institutions with “poor 
employment metrics”, as is manifest in the 
rhetoric of cabinet ministers, the revision 
of the London weighting allowance & the 
overall shift to STEM.
•There are also separate financial risks 
emanating from revisions to the pension 
obligations & broader economic 
challenges.Opportunities, Risks & Mitigation
Mitigation
•The Strategic Plan will be a living document –it will evolve as we read the market & will require continual 
stewardship via an institutional scorecard which the Board of Trustees will use to assess the executive 
management & enable them to revise the strategy.
Opportunities
•The UK is about to experience a once in a generation 
upsurge in demand for higher education with a 
demographic bulge of 350,000 additional young 
people. In addition, there is going to be an increase of 
260-400 million households earning $45-100k USD 
(PPP) between now & 2030 globally. The SOAS brand 
is strong in the international market & could benefit 
from the growth in global household income.
•We have a greater proportion of PGR students than 
most other higher education institutions (although 
SOAS is relatively small, so this is numerically fewer 
PGRs than other HEIs) . International PGR recruitment 
can play a part in financial sustainability –we are 
seeing a large uptick in overseas PG applications. The 
challenge is financing –we would have to put in place 
a scholarship regime to capitalise on this opportunity.
Executive Summary of Strategic Actions
Executive Summary of Strategic Actions
Student Responsiveness: 
1. Provide a learning experience which is grounded in our regional expertise, is enabling of integration with international 
partners, is interdisciplinary, inclusive & decolonised, & is undertaken through multiple teaching modalities. This will be 
enabled by developing an attractive curriculum portfolio, revising our academic programme structure, & ensuring 
comprehensive student support structures & an excellent student experience.
Research Intensity: 
2. Increase research income by 30% by 2025/26 & increase large grants from 20% to 30% of portfolio. Increase outputs 
to achieve institutional average of 3 per academic per year (w/weighting for books) every 5 years . Increase high 
quality outputs to minimum of 3 per academic (w/weighting for books) every 5 years. Increase overall SOAS citations 
by 10% by 2023. Ensure 50% of academics engaged with KE, I & E activity by 2025/26. Increase HEIF -able 
knowledge exchange income by 100% by 2025/26.
3. Increase proportion of PG students to 55% of student demographic.
Institutional Community: 
5. Appoint a dedicated senior person, reporting to the Director, to engage key stakeholders & develop a detailed 
institutional community action plan with clear targets. Ensure oversight by the Equality & Diversity Committee & 
progress reports at all BoT & EB meetings.
International Partnerships:
4. Partner with established research universities in the Global South to co -establish & co -manage 3 to 5 research 
institutes in different geographic & thematic areas.
Executive Summary of Strategic Actions
Financial Sustainability:
6. Increase overall FTE student numbers & generate an unrestricted surplus that would enable both our envisaged 
investments & increase our financial reserves.
7. Achieve financial sustainability for every department by increasing income through a mix of student numbers, 
research income & endowments to be stewarded through explicit annual targets. 
8. Conclude review of centres & institutes. Ensure that institutes develop cost -recovery strategies & become cost -
neutral to SOAS or be reorganised / closed.
Institutional Effectiveness:
8. Implement a HR plan which enhances productivity & accountability, promotes wellbeing & decasualises our staffing 
establishment to bring SOAS in line with the sector average of 4.3%.
9. Develop & implement a capital investment programme for IT (£ 23M over 5 years ) & Estates ( £3.5M per year ) in line 
with our institutional strategy.
10. Implement a philanthropic income strategy which increases our overall endowment portfolio & actively manages 
returns from existing endowments.
11. Improve SOAS’s image in the public domain through a series of externally -focussed interventions such as public 
lectures & commentaries by a broad range of SOAS stakeholders.
Appendices
Initiation of strategic planning process
Listening phase
Feedback to Board of Trustees
Deliberative phase
Revisions to Strategic Plan
Approval of Strategic Plan by Board of Trustees18 Jan
18 Jan -10 Feb
18 Feb
19 Feb -31 Mar
1 Apr -25 Apr
26 Apr -28 May
8 July
Strategic Planning Process
Second deliberative phase
Finalisation of 3 -year budget & operational plans at RPCOngoing review of Strategic Plan to confirm broad alignment with 3 -year 
budget & operational plans 
Refinement of plans & impact on financial forecasts 9 July -Autumn 23 June21 May -22 June
Feedback to Board of Trustees 20 May
Identity –Shape & Size
•Should it be our goal to re -establish SOAS as research intensive?
•What should be the overall size of our student community? Is there a market for growing UG and 
PGT students? What should be the balance between UG and PG? 
•How do we grow research output, income and quality?Questions Informing Strategic Planning Process
Identity –Internationalisation
•What should be our relationship with institutions in the rest of the world? 
•Should we reimagine our regional expertise as a conceptual lens through which to tackle the big 
questions of our time, as opposed to our traditional area studies approach?
•Are Africa, Asia and the Middle East the regions which we study, or are they the lens through which 
we research the planetary questions of our time –pandemics, climate change, inequality, migration, 
etc.?
•Should we focus on partnerships with prestigious research universities, including co -ownership of 
research institutions, across the Global South?
Financial Sustainability
•How do we ensure financial sustainability and run an annual surplus to develop some cash 
reserves? Do we need to review staff / student ratios to find the correct balance between protecting 
the student experience and financial sustainability?
•What are the strategies for departments to achieve financial sustainability? This may involve the 
correct mix of student numbers, research income and endowments.
•How do we develop better financial literacy among staff?
Institutional Community
•How do we address the fractiousness of SOAS? 
•How do we enable critical academic discourse which also respects and entrenches academic 
freedom of speech?
•Is the lack of clear common understanding and rules around appropriate conduct and civility stifling 
academic debate and freedom? Questions Informing Strategic Planning Process
Institutional Efficiencies
•How do we guarantee institutional efficiencies and manage the issue of low productivity across the 
institution? How do we retain talented staff? 
•What is an appropriate proportion of fractional staff for a research university and how do we get 
there? 
•What organisational structure would best enable efficiencies?
•What technologies should we invest in?Questions Informing Strategic Planning Process
