The Strategic Plan  
The Strategic Plan defines Sorbonne University's major strategic orientations for the next five 
years. Based on clear choices, it comprises 4 are as of focus:  
Participating in the World Globally  
With its scientific strengths and reputation, Sorbonne University's first objective is to develop 
its impact and its ability to attract top students and researchers at European and international 
level. To  this end, it is developing a limited number of long -term, comprehensive strategic 
partnerships, including research and educations, with leading international universities. It is 
also stepping up its participation in European Union programs and initiatives , and 
strengthening mobility and hospitality for students and staff.  
Leading Open Science and the digital and data revolutions  
The university is involved in the digital revolution, which is giving new importance to data 
and its use. Sorbonne University is equipping itself with cutting -edge infrastructures, training, 
raising awareness and developing research into digital technology and artificial intelligence. 
It is also committed to reasoned use, demanding greater transparency and ethics, and 
promoting open  science.  
Learning, understanding and entrepreneurship in a 
changing world  
As a key player in public debate, Sorbonne University remains at the forefront of knowledge 
and its dissemination to all its students. With the expertise and agility to respond to s ociety's 
expectations and questions, it adapts its teaching methods, supports and encourages 
entrepreneurship and stimulates innovation. In this way, it is able to support and enlighten 
society in the challenges it faces: globalization, mobility, the digit al revolution, demographic 
and health changes, environmental transition and more.  
An Established University with Its Own Identity  
As a world -class public university open to all, Sorbonne University values a strong university 
with strong faculties —which pos itions it as a new and unique French institution. It is on this 
foundation that it is building a clear and visible identity, as well as bringing together, 
promoting and nurturing its community —students, staff, and alumni.  
The Strategic Plan defines the uni versity's major strategic orientations for the next five years, 
and mobilizes all the university's resources to this new implementation. This will, in 
particular, concern the fruitful partnership of the Sorbonne University Alliance (with the 
Museum nationa l d'histoire naturelle (MNHN), the Université de technologie de Compiègne 
(UTC), INSEAD, the Pôle supérieur de Paris Boulogne -Billancourt (PSPBB) and France 
Education International (formerly CIEP) as well as CNRS, INSERM, INRIA and IRD.  
Designed to be real istic over time, its rigorous implementation schedule will enable the entire 
community to pursue its efforts in a reasoned manner, so that Sorbonne University lives and 
develops as a world -class multidisciplinary research university.  
 
