

ii ╲ Foreword 
iv ╲ Executive Summary
ix ╲ Glossary
 
 ╲ Chapter One:
1  Vision, Mission and Core Values
 
 ╲ Chapter Two:
3  Creating a Tangible Legacy for the Future (CityU’s Roadmap to 2045)
 
 ╲ Chapter Three:
7  Strategic Plan 2015–2020 and Highlights of Major Accomplishments
 
 ╲ Chapter Four:
17  Challenges, Opportunities and Gaps in the Current Planning Environment
 
 ╲ Chapter Five:
25  Strategic Plan 2020–2025: Themes and Aims 
 
 ╲ Chapter Six:
33  From Planning to Implementation to Monitoring Progress
 
 ╲ Appendix 1:
35  University Major Achievements 2015–2020
 ╲ Appendix 2:
48  Strategic Plan 2020–2025 Formulation Process and TimelineTable of Contents
Foreword
iiSince its establishment as a university 25 years ago, City University of Hong 
Kong (CityU) has developed to become one of the world’s top universities, 
known for innovation, creativity and research aimed at improving the quality 
of life. In the following pages, we are proud to present our Strategic Plan 
for 2020–2025, World-class Research and Education, building upon 
these achievements. This Plan provides a roadmap for our future, enables 
us to navigate current challenges and develops our identity as a world-class 
university. With the support and concerted efforts of our students, faculty, 
staff, stakeholders, alumni, donors and friends, we have succeeded in building 
a university that is committed to excellence. We are excited to move forward 
and continue our remarkable trajectory of success over the next five years. 
What will change during that time? While it is difficult to predict the 
future five years from now, we have identified recent developments in 
the economic, societal and technological landscapes that will significantly 
impact the higher education sector. Locally, Hong Kong is experiencing 
unprecedented challenges and rapid changes in its social, economic, public 
health and political situation, all of which pose an even greater demand 
for universities to be publicly accountable. Globally, technological advances 
are shaping society in profound ways and international divides are altering 
competitive dynamics and economic systems. In response to these challenges, 
we will develop and offer an integrated, interdisciplinary, cutting-edge 
curriculum, one that is designed to nurture the future generation of 
professionals and transform students into creative problem-solvers, effective 
communicators and future leaders. Focusing on five key research areas 
(One Health, Digital Society, Smart City, Matter and Brain) and developing 
applicable interdisciplinary research are essential strategies to pursue 
academic excellence and address global problems. Hence, CityU is dedicated 
to excellence in professional education and translational research in order to 
facilitate positive change for a better society.
iiiWhat will not change in the next five years? In an ever-changing world, the common 
mission of universities remains the same: to advance knowledge and promote 
understanding. Since Professor Way Kuo took up the CityU presidency in 2008, we 
have embraced research as an integral part of teaching with the clear mission of 
becoming a leading global university, excelling in research and professional education. 
We remain true to these aspirations and keep our mission firmly in mind. Despite the 
recent social instability, we continue to treasure the autonomy of universities, holding 
fast to the belief that universities should not be arenas for conflicting political views, 
but rather, safe spaces in which research and education can flourish for the benefit of 
all. The importance of instilling in our students respect, understanding of alternative 
viewpoints and the values of good citizenship remains at the heart of everything we 
do. Over the next five years, we will further strengthen the teaching–research nexus to 
help students link their learning to the contemporary knowledge, creativity and skills 
needed for them to succeed in their professions now and in the future. As an attractive 
regional hub for higher education in the Greater China Region, we will continue to 
develop wider academic networks and partnerships, empowering CityU as a world-
leading university that is the home of international talents with global citizenship.
The spirit of CityU is to pursue excellence for a better future. The future is now. We call 
for the actions and contributions of our large and supportive community of students, 
faculty, staff, alumni and friends to join us to achieve the ambitious goals of the 
Strategic Plan 2020–2025. With the unfailing support of the University community, we 
will continue to create our own success stories in the years to come. 
Lester Garson HUANG, SBS, JP
Chairman of the CouncilWay KUO
President and University Distinguished Professor
Executive Summary
ivThe Plan
Our Strategic Plan 2020–2025: World-class Research and Education builds 
on the aspirations defined in our previous plan for 2015–2020 and includes a 
roadmap for the next 25 years. This roadmap will guide us in raising CityU’s 
levels of excellence in research and education for the benefit of the world at 
large. 
These five strategic themes will guide our development over the next five 
years:
• Education and Student Development
• Research and Knowledge Transfer
• Faculty and Staff Advancement
• Campus Growth and Sustainability
• Global Identity and University Advancement
Chapter 5 lists specific aims for the actions required to fulfil the 2020–2025 
strategic themes, and hence to realise CityU’s vision as a leading global 
university. In accordance with our mission statement, we will continue to 
nurture our students’ talents and create applicable knowledge for social and 
economic advancement. Success in these endeavours over the next five years 
will allow us to further raise CityU’s academic excellence, international and 
local standing, and societal importance along the trajectory set up to 2045.
Readiness for World-class Research and Education
The successful implementation of our Strategic Plan 2015–2020 Making a Difference 
through Excellence in Research and Professional Education has created a strong 
foundation for our next five-year planning horizon. CityU’s improvement in the QS 
World University Rankings, from 108th in 2015 to 52nd in 2020, indicates how much the 
University has accomplished. Our academic excellence is also evidenced in the 2016 QAC 
Quality Audit Report, which noted the success of CityU’s discovery-enriched curricula 
in enhancing the student learning experience, commended our effort in facilitating 
innovation among students and staff, and praised the excellent network of student 
services and the variety of overseas exchanges and internships promoting global 
engagement. Graduate employment also continued to improve. In 2018, 90% of our 
graduates were in full-time employment with an increased average income.
CityU’s readiness to be a centre of excellence for world-class research and education 
is evidenced by some of the following landmarks over the 2015–2020 strategic plan 
period: 
• establishing the Hong Kong Institute for Advanced Study in 2015;
• receiving the greatest number of US utility patents among universities in Hong Kong 
for three consecutive years from 2016;
• receiving major donations, such as HK$500M from The Hong Kong Jockey Club 
Charities Trust in 2017 to build the One Health Tower;
• offering the first local six-year Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine programme in 
2017/18;
• launching the redesigned website and unifying logos in 2019 to strengthen our 
institutional identity and promote the University to a wider audience; and
• signing an agreement with the Dongguan government in 2020.
v
viCampus Autonomy
Despite the social unrest in Hong Kong in 2019, CityU will continue to 
maintain political neutrality. In addition, we will monitor our budget closely 
in view of the financial constraints caused by the social unrest in 2019 
and the pandemic in 2020. Notwithstanding these restrictions, we remain 
committed to our core values and mission, nurturing student talent, and 
creating applicable knowledge for social and economic development.
Consultative Process and Implementation
The development of this strategic plan has benefited from the wisdom 
of the CityU community at all levels through consultation meetings and 
subsequent submissions from related units. The strategic plan for 2020–2025 
is the outcome of three stages of campus-wide consultations that took place 
between May and October 2019. The process involved collecting information 
from all stakeholders through face-to-face in-depth interviews, focus group 
interviews, and online consultations, among others. Our heartfelt thanks go 
to all participants.
The whole of the University community supports taking action within the five 
strategic themes to maintain our upward trajectory in the 2020–2025 period. 
By meeting challenges, seizing opportunities, building on our strengths, and 
addressing gaps in our planning and provision, we can fulfil our mission and 
vision as a great university and become an even stronger force for good in 
the world.
vii概要
計劃計劃
《2020-2025年策略性發展計劃：世界級研究與教學》承接並擴展《2015-2020年策略性發展
計劃》的願景，及構建未來二十五年的規劃路線圖，以指引城大持續提升教研卓越，為世界
謀福祉。
大學為今後五年的發展確立了五大主題：
• 教學與學生發展
• 研究與知識轉移
• 教職員發展
• 校園建設與可持續性
• 全球定位與大學拓展
第五章列舉為實現《2020-2025年策略性發展計劃》之具體目標，以實現城大成為國際領先大
學的願景。承擔城大的使命，大學將繼續矢志培育及拓展學生才能，創造實用知識，推動社
會與經濟進步。期待未來五年教研的斐然成績，推動大學沿着2045路線圖的發展方向，進一
步提升學術卓越、國際與本港地位，以及對社會的重要性。
世界級研究與教學：蓄勢待發世界級研究與教學：蓄勢待發
城大成功落實以「卓越精益求創新、教研並進育專才」為主題的《2015-2020年策略性發展計
劃》，為下一個五年計劃的遠景打下穩固基礎。城大在QS世界大學排名由2015年的第108位躍
升至2020年的第52位，印證大學在此期間取得的出色成就。大學的優異學術成績在質素保證
局2016年公佈的質素核證報告中也得到確認。報告提及城大的「重探索求創新」課程成功提升
學生的學習體驗，表彰大學為促進學生與教師創新所做的努力，並稱讚大學的優質學生服務網
絡，以及各種促進全球參與的海外交流與實習。城大畢業生就業能力也持續提升，據2018年的
紀錄，90%的城大畢業生獲全職聘用，平均薪酬不斷提升。
viii城大已準備就緒，銳意成為世界級卓越教研中心，而以下一些過去五年來的非凡成
就可以佐證：
• 於2015年創立香港高等研究院；
• 從2016年起連續三年在本地大學中獲得最多美國發明專利；
• 獲大額捐款，如香港賽馬會慈善信託基金2017年捐贈用於興建健康一體化大樓
的五億港元；
• 於2017/18學年推出本地首個六年制獸醫學學士課程；
• 於2019年推出新設計的網頁和統一各部門的標誌，以提升大學形象識別，進一
步推廣城大；及
• 於2020年與東莞巿政府簽署協議。
校園自主校園自主
在2019年香港社會動盪期間，城大保持了政治中立，往後仍會貫徹始終。我們亦
密切注意財政預算以應對由2019年社會動盪及2020年新冠肺炎疫情引致的財政緊
絀。縱使面對各種逆境，城大仍會繼續緊守其價值觀和使命，致力培育和拓展學生
才能，創造實用知識，推動社會和經濟進步。
諮詢過程及實施諮詢過程及實施
大學透過系列諮詢會議及部門的書面提交，收集城大社群上下的寶貴意見，以制定
此《策略性發展計劃》。《2020 -2025年策略性發展計劃》是2019年5月至10月期
間在全校進行三個階段諮詢後集思廣益的成果。諮詢過程包括透過面對面深度訪
談、焦點小組訪談、網上諮詢，以及其它不同途徑收集各方持份者的意見。在此謹
向所有參與者致以衷心感謝。
大學成員一致支持城大於2020 -2025年間倍道而進，循五大策略主題繼續致力向
上。為落實各目標，大學將迎接挑戰，把握機會，發揮優勢，補足差距，以實現成
為世界一流大學及推動社會進步的使命及願景。
ixGlossary
Abbreviation Full Name
CAS Chinese Academy of Sciences
CityU City University of Hong Kong
CLP CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
CRESDA Central Repository on Student Development Activities
HKSTP Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation
IT Information Technology 
JUPAS Joint University Programmes Admissions System
MOOCs Massive Open Online Courses
NGOs Non-governmental Organisations
PhD Doctor of Philosophy
PPP Public-Private Partnerships
QAC Quality Assurance Council
QS Quacquarelli Symonds
RGC Research Grants Council
RMB Renminbi
SEN Special Educational Needs
THE Times Higher Education
UAA University Accountability Agreements
UGC University Grants Committee
UTD The University of Texas at Dallas 
Chapter One
1Vision, Mission and
Core Values
1.2  Mission   1.1  Vision   
City University of Hong Kong 
aspires to become a leading 
global university, excelling 
in research and professional 
education.To nurture and develop 
students’ talents and 
to create applicable 
knowledge for social and 
economic advancement.
The academic capacity and vitality of 
City University of Hong Kong flow from 
the core values of excellence, honesty, 
freedom of enquiry, accountability, civility 
and collegiality. These values, as defined 
on the following page, also underpin the 
Strategic Plan. 1.3  Core Values   
21. Excellence
City University of Hong Kong is committed to building 
excellence throughout its educational, research and 
outreach programmes, involving every unit of the 
institution and every member of the CityU community. 
This pursuit of excellence is driven by our respect for 
knowledge, our passion for learning, and our concern for 
human well-being. 
2. Honesty
Honesty and high ethical standards will inform all 
actions of CityU as an academic enterprise dedicated to 
scholarship, discovery and creativity.  These standards are 
the hallmark of our success as a leading university and 
support our commitment to excellence.
3. Freedom of Enquiry
The freedom and responsibility of all faculty and students 
to engage in critical enquiry, intellectual discourse 
and academic debate is vital to the advancement of 
the frontiers of knowledge and the pursuit of higher 
truths. Within the CityU community, academic faculty 
are expected to take the lead in promoting the rational 
debate of ideas and constructive problem-solving based 
on academic values and priorities.4. Accountability
A sustained commitment to openness and accountability 
is critical to CityU’s success as a public institution of 
international standing. The best interests of CityU are 
served by creating and maintaining structures that ensure 
accountability at all levels and by raising quality through 
continuous improvement.
5. Civility and Collegiality
Fostering civil dialogue, promoting collegial exchanges 
and cultivating mutual respect are essential to our 
healthy development as an increasingly diverse and 
vigorous community of students, alumni, faculty and 
staff. These values support a robust academic culture, 
which nurtures our academic enterprise and intellectual 
life.
Chapter Two
3Creating a Tangible Legacy  
for the Future
The guiding principle of CityU’s plans for the next 25 
years is the common mission of all great universities 
worldwide: that is, to advance knowledge, improve 
lives, sustain livelihoods, and strengthen the societies 
we serve. The roadmap outlined in this chapter is 
therefore designed to elevate CityU’s excellence in 
professional education and research in order to benefit 
the world at large, and thus to maintain our dynamic 
trajectory towards becoming a leading global university. 
In order to achieve this goal, we will continue to 
nurture and develop the talents of our students and to 
create applicable knowledge for social and economic 
advancement, in accordance with our mission statement 
above. 
2.1  Areas of Excellence
As further detailed in section 3.2 below, CityU has already 
achieved international positioning in certain areas of (CityU’s Roadmap to 2045)
excellence. Building on these achievements, our ambition 
for the future is to be the best university in Hong Kong 
and a leader in interdisciplinary research and education at 
both regional and global levels. Accordingly, we intend to:
► Deliver high-quality fundamental and technology-
driven professional education
► Conduct high-impact research in science and 
technology that transforms society and the 
economy 
► Excel in the following strategic interdisciplinary 
areas
u One Health: Interdisciplinary, problem-based 
research collaborations and communications in 
all aspects of health-related issues involving the 
complex interactions and inter-dependencies of 
animal and human populations with each other 
and the environment to generate better health 
outcomes
3
4u Digital Society: The understanding of the 
relationship between technology and society, 
informed by the humanities, natural sciences and 
social sciences, involving vigorous interdisciplinary 
research leading to substantial knowledge 
transfer activities
u Smart City: A cross-cutting theme that, among 
diverse disciplines and programmes leading to 
innovative solutions to address regional and 
global concerns, encompasses such challenges 
as sustainable energy, climate change, 
environmental degradation, urban planning, 
government regulation and the law
u Matter: The interdisciplinary study of matter 
(or materials) in its various forms, involving 
researchers from all the natural sciences in 
the collaborative development of science, 
engineering and technology, aims to provide 
an impetus to innovation through practical 
applications in various disciplines and fields
u Brain: An interdisciplinary field covering biology, 
neuroscience, medicine, psychology, computer 
science and linguistics to study the human brain 
and the computer brain for a deep understanding 
of the potential of the human–machine interface 
as well as creating significant improvements in 
productivity2.2 Goals
1. Excellence Targets
► Top 10 in subject areas with more than 750 
programmes globally and top 5 in subject areas 
with fewer than 750 programmes globally
► Top in Hong Kong in faculty hiring (excellence in 
research and teaching), student recruitment and 
student employability
2. Education
► Delivering innovative curricula for cross-disciplinary 
research and education
► Integrating all of the disciplines at CityU — 
business, engineering, liberal arts, social sciences, 
science, veterinary medicine, life sciences, creative 
media, data science, energy, environment and 
law — within one overarching interdisciplinary 
framework 
► Equipping students with the skills required for the 
future professional working environment: creativity, 
critical and systems thinking, and adaptive learning; 
and helping develop students’ social responsibility 
and contribution to the public good
53. Research
► Promoting diversity in disciplinary and 
methodological approaches that contribute to 
creating a better world
► Establishing a world-recognised high-impact 
dissemination platform for interdisciplinary 
research 
► Establishing appropriate procedures to recognise 
and reward interdisciplinary research and education
4. Strategic Directions
► Making CityU a renowned name brand
► Success in commercialisation, especially in the 
Greater Bay Area
► Deep collaboration with Mainland China
► Positioning for a school for medical research2.3  Resources
► National and local policy support and resources
► Resources in space, funding and talent in:
u Mainland China, providing multiple locations for 
campus development
u Greater Bay Area, including a school for medical 
research focusing on biomedical sciences,  
neuroscience and engineering
u Hong Kong, including a teaching hospital, 
external funding and support from alumni
u Foundations/trusts
► Internal:
u Redefining institutional structure and 
collaborations 
u Sharing resources, including major facilities, and 
creative solutions to space constraints
6u Technology and facilities to support strategic 
directions including development beyond Hong 
Kong
u Appropriate budget to facilitate advancement 
towards measurable goals
u Research funding gained by faculty through 
successful applications to government, industry 
and international bodies
This 25-year roadmap is designed to guide us in building 
on CityU’s existing strengths to continue on our trajectory 
towards being a world-class university and to create a 
lasting social and economic legacy, based on scholarship 
and applicable knowledge, for future generations to 
enjoy and to further contribute to the betterment of 
society.
7Chapter Three
Strategic Plan  2015–2020  
and Highlights  of  
Major Accompli shments
3.1 Strategic Plan 2015–2020
In 2015, CityU issued its Strategic Plan 2015–2020 titled 
Making a Difference through Excellence in Research and Professional Education, providing a roadmap for the University to take action around five strategic themes in order to realise our aspiration to become a leading university for professional education and problem-based research in Asia:►Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional
Education
►Expand Interdisciplinarity and T eam-based Research
to Address Global Challenges
►Strengthen Internationalisation and Global
Partnerships
►Enlarge Capacity for Knowledge T ransfer and
Entrepreneurship
►Enhance Good Governance and the CityU Brand
7
8This Plan articulated CityU’s continuing emphasis on 
promoting discovery and innovation as core elements in 
our educational enterprise, and initiating cutting-edge, 
high-impact, interdisciplinary research projects to address 
global and local challenges and to advance the quality of 
life. 
As a result of our strategic investment in resources, 
dedicated teamwork and the strong support of the 
Council, staff, students, alumni and the wider community, 
CityU has shown its uniqueness and strengths to 
the world. Though only celebrating its 25th year as a 
university in 2019, CityU’s colleges and schools have 
emerged as leaders in important fields of professional 
study, offering outstanding academic programmes to 
nurture the talents of our students, and expanding 
the frontiers of knowledge to advance science and 
engineering, and for the betterment of society.
3.2 Highlights of Major Milestones and 
Accomplishments
Building on our firm foundation and established 
track record, CityU has a well-earned regional and 
international reputation as an innovative hub for 
research and professional education addressing global 
issues and empowering positive change. CityU is ranked:
► 52nd in QS World University Rankings 2020 from 
108th in 2015
► 4th in QS “Top 50 under 50” 2020 from 5th in 2015
► 15th in THE Asia University Rankings 2019 from 23rd 
in 2015
► 90th in QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2020 
from 201st+ in 2017
► 1st in THE Most International Universities 2020
► 1st in THE World University Rankings 2019 in 
“International Outlook”
► Computer Science: 13th in the world and 1st in Hong 
Kong (2020 Best Global Universities1)
► Electrical and Electronic Engineering: 15th in the 
world and 1st in Hong Kong (2020 Best Global 
Universities)
► Engineering: 16th in the world and 1st in Hong Kong 
(2020 Best Global Universities)
► Business: 27th in the world and 1st in the Asia-Pacific 
region (UTD Top 100 Business School Research 
Rankings in 2019)
Our academic excellence is evidenced in the 2016 QAC 
Quality Audit Report. The Audit Panel found ample 
evidence demonstrating the success of CityU’s discovery-
1 By US News and World Report
9enriched curricula in enhancing the student learning 
experience. The Panel also commended CityU for its effort 
in facilitating innovation among students and staff across 
various disciplines, and praised the excellent network of 
student services and the variety of overseas exchanges 
and internships promoting global engagement.
A more detailed account of CityU’s Major Milestones, 
Accomplishments and Supporting Initiatives in Appendix 
1 provides evidence of upward growth and development 
along the strategic areas set out in the Strategic Plan 
2015–2020.
1. Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional 
Education
The CityU brand of professional education, emphasising 
discovery and innovation, has enabled the University to 
transform its curriculum and has provided all students 
with opportunities to make original discoveries. Students have been encouraged to participate in competitions; 
many have outperformed their counterparts at other 
universities and have won a myriad of awards. CityU’s 
brand of professional education has been recognised 
by the University Grants Committee, which presented 
the 2017 UGC Teaching Award to a group of CityU staff 
in recognition of the University’s bold commitment to 
embedding discovery and innovation in its curriculum.
To support these curriculum changes, several new 
departments were created, including the Department of 
Infectious Diseases and Public Health, the Department of 
Materials Science and Engineering and the Department 
of Neuroscience. The first six-year Bachelor of Veterinary 
Medicine programme in Hong Kong was offered in 2017 
in collaboration with Cornell University. The School 
of Data Science and the Hong Kong Institute for Data 
Science were established in 2018 in direct response to the 
increased demand for data scientists and engineers to 
10support future societal and economic developments, and 
the interdisciplinary Bachelor of Science in Data Science 
programme was offered from 2019/20.
Expanding our professional education and interdisciplinary 
research in life sciences and biomedical sciences under 
the One Health paradigm is a core strategic priority in 
the 2019–2022 triennium. CityU has increased the student 
numbers for biomedical engineering and biomedical 
sciences programmes to meet the increasing demand for 
highly-skilled and well-trained healthcare and biomedical 
professionals in Hong Kong over the next decade.
The University has devoted considerable resources to help 
prepare both undergraduate and postgraduate students 
for their future careers. Research students are required 
to take up Teaching Assistant duties and to attend 
a compulsory course to prepare them for successful 
university-level teaching. Our faculty play a key role in 
helping research students develop academic links with 
scholars in their fields, publish research findings, apply 
for academic positions, engage in knowledge transfer, 
launch start-ups, and connect to industry. One exciting 
example of such connections is the establishment of 
Vitargent (International) Biotechnology, which was co-
founded by a CityU PhD graduate utilising award-winning 
technology developed at CityU and which has been 
acclaimed as Hong Kong’s next unicorn company. With 
the many career preparation initiatives offered by the University, including the signature employers’ luncheon, 
careers festival, cultural immersion programmes, global 
work attachments and internship placements, our 
students are well prepared for the workplace. More 
than half of our bachelor’s degree graduates have been 
engaged in internships and placements at organisations 
and companies within or outside Hong Kong.
There has been continued improvement in our graduate 
employment with 90% in full-time employment and 
having increased income, according to data collected 
from the Graduate Employment Survey in 2018. Our 
employment ranking has risen to 90th in the world and 
19th in Asia in the QS Graduate Employability Rankings 
2020. These improvements confirm our increased effort 
in enhancing students’ employability.
A University-wide task force has been established to 
formulate and coordinate outreach and networking 
programmes to better prepare secondary school 
students for higher education and for the CityU brand 
of professional education. A number of initiatives have 
been launched with the intent of attracting the best 
students and nurturing their talents, including the CityU 
Scholarships for Hong Kong Talents and the Non-Local 
Student Athletes Admission Scheme.
In addition to solid training for future professions, 
students’ other talents were nurtured. One particular 
11achievement was CityU students’ dominance in inter-
varsity sports competitions through winning a record-
breaking 9th Grand Slam in the 2016/17 annual sports 
competitions organised by The University Sports 
Federation of Hong Kong, China. The University also 
ran cultural and social initiatives including arts festivals, 
community engagement service learning programmes, 
service leadership training and culture promotion 
programmes, with the aim of helping our students 
develop as well-rounded, creative and caring citizens.
In line with our strategic target of significantly 
increasing research degree student numbers, the 2018/19 
research postgraduate student enrolment number of 
1,896 increased by 13% from the previous year. In 2019, 
376 research postgraduate and professional doctoral 
students graduated from CityU.2. Expand Interdisciplinarity and Team-based 
Research to Address Global Challenges
Three overarching themes identified in the Strategic 
Plan 2015–2020 spearhead interdisciplinary research and 
education: One Health, Digital Society and Smart City. 
The Hong Kong Institute for Advanced Study established 
in 2015 strengthens a global partnership promoting 
research, education and innovation under these three 
themes to contribute to solutions to pressing real-world 
problems.
Evidenced by the accomplishments of our faculty 
researchers, CityU has continued to nurture cutting-
edge, discipline-based and interdisciplinary research. 
New discoveries and innovations, such as super alloys, 
a droplet-based electricity generator and a tiny on-chip 
lithium niobate modulator, have extended the frontiers 
of knowledge. The work of our researchers also benefits 
society. One example is the development in 2019 of 
groundbreaking technology to accurately perform early 
12screening for cancer cells and effectively monitor disease 
status, allowing patients to know their risk of cancer as 
early as possible.
In the 2019/20 funding cycle, CityU won a total of 192 
General Research Fund and Early Career Scheme grants 
with total funding of over $111M, the fourth among the 
eight UGC-funded institutions. The University secured 
over HK$50M competitive external grants for veterinary 
and One Health research from local and international 
funding schemes.
With the approval of the Ministry of Science and 
Technology of the People’s Republic of China, CityU has 
established two State Key Laboratories and one Hong 
Kong Branch of Chinese National Engineering Research 
Center; meanwhile, the annual funding support from the 
Innovation and Technology Commission was increased 
to HK$10M for each laboratory from 2019 onwards. 
Four CAS–CityU joint laboratories were accredited by 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) in the evaluation 
conducted in 2018. Among these four laboratories, the 
Joint Laboratory of Nanomaterials and Nanomechanics, 
established by CityU and the Institute of Metal Research, 
was ranked by CAS as an “Outstanding” joint laboratory. 
In addition, in 2019, CityU teams secured HK$12M from 
the Research Grants Council under the Joint Laboratory 
Funding Scheme to enhance the research infrastructure 
of the CAS–CityU joint laboratories in Hong Kong.Ten of our faculty members in Engineering, Materials 
Science, Computer Science and in cross-field research 
were named Highly Cited Researchers for 2018 by 
Clarivate Analytics, reflecting the high academic standard 
of our faculty and our excellent research performance. 
The list acknowledged their positive impact on the 
research community and on society.
Through the Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Life Sciences, in collaboration with Cornell 
University, CityU created a unique and strategic platform 
for interdisciplinary research in veterinary medicine, 
neuroscience, cancer biology, regenerative medicine, 
nanomedicine, and biomedical engineering to promote 
the effective control and prevention of infectious 
diseases, sustainable development of local farms and 
fisheries, and the development of animal and human 
pharmaceutics, biological products, and diagnostic 
services in Hong Kong and the region. A companion 
animal clinic was acquired and a veterinary diagnostic 
laboratory was established as subsidiaries to further 
advance our development of translational research under 
the One Health paradigm.
3. Strengthen Internationalisation and Global 
Partnerships
To prepare our graduates for leadership and success 
in the increasingly global environment of the 21st 
century, we have strengthened our overseas exchange 
13programmes through a total of over 400 student 
exchange partners in 45 countries and regions, as of 
2019. More funding support has been provided through 
a variety of programmes to enable more local students to 
go abroad and gain international experience. More than 
half of our undergraduates have international experience 
and, on campus, one third of the students are non-local.
CityU adopts a mixed and balanced approach in 
the recruitment of non-local students as part of our 
internationalisation strategy. We have reached out 
to recruit students from countries and regions whose 
cultures are less familiar to our local students, such 
as the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia. A 
Diversity Grant launched in 2016/17 supports students 
from countries less represented on the CityU campus to 
achieve a more balanced mix of our international student 
population in order to enrich learning and broaden 
perspectives. In 2019/20, international students from 71 
countries were successfully recruited.Conscious efforts have been made to integrate non-local 
students with their local peers. Examples of these efforts 
are the multiple student-initiated projects organised 
annually by student groups and funded by the University 
to enhance interaction, promote cooperation, and 
foster mutual understanding. An extensive orientation 
programme has been organised to help enrich non-local 
students’ international experience at CityU, along with 
other programmes and activities on campus and in halls 
of residence, with the additional aims of strengthening 
integration and providing opportunities for local students 
to interact with their peers from around the world.
Our curriculum has been globalised through joint degree 
initiatives that broaden the student learning experience 
and expand global partnerships. Our renowned partners 
include Columbia University, National Taiwan University 
and Leuphana University. CityU started collaborating 
with Columbia University to offer a joint bachelor’s 
14degree in Computing Mathematics and has extended 
this collaboration to other disciplines, including 
Computational Finance, Business Economics, Business 
Analysis, Computer Science, Asian and International 
Studies, Politics, Applied Sociology, Psychology and 
Applied Physics. Among the 29 graduates from this 
demanding programme, many are now working in 
multinational corporations such as Google and Goldman 
Sachs, or pursuing further studies.
As of January 2020, 72% of our regular faculty was 
non-local, contributing to the diversity of our already 
multicultural campus. The majority of these faculty 
members came from Mainland China, the United States, 
and the United Kingdom; others, from countries as 
various as South Africa, Uzbekistan, Finland, Mexico and 
Uruguay.
4. Enlarge Capacity for Knowledge Transfer and 
Entrepreneurship
To support social and economic development by 
nurturing innovation, facilitating knowledge transfer 
and promoting entrepreneurship, the University has 
strengthened its intellectual property management 
process and produced tangible results. In 2018, CityU was 
ranked 63rd among the Top 100 Worldwide Universities 
Granted US Utility Patents, and was top in Hong Kong 
for receiving the greatest number of US utility patents 
for three consecutive years, starting in 2016. Inventions 
of high commercialisation value were pursued for patent filing, and in 2017/18, our invention commercialisation 
rate was 20%.
The University promotes all forms of knowledge transfer, 
including technological and non-technological transfer, 
and CityU faculty have forged closer links with industry, 
NGOs and government. In 2017/18, CityU faculty 
partnered with over 1,500 organisations. 
In 2017, CityU launched the CLP Low Carbon Energy 
Education Centre in order to connect research and 
education to emerging industry interests within Hong 
Kong. This Centre, the first of its kind, brings together 
professional bodies, green groups, government 
departments and businesses to promote public education 
on climate change and to develop innovative solutions 
through cross-sectoral collaboration. CityU will make use 
of this unique platform to promote low-energy living for 
Hong Kong as a smart city ready for the challenges of 
climate change.
Different levels of collaboration have been undertaken 
to broaden our Mainland corporate partnership 
and strengthen institutional support for knowledge 
transfer and entrepreneurship and thus to drive 
increased innovation by our students, faculty and 
staff. In 2020, CityU signed an agreement with the 
Dongguan government to develop a multilateral 
and interdisciplinary platform that can strengthen 
collaborations contributing to the Greater Bay Area 
15development in education, research, technology transfer 
and innovation. Together with our Shenzhen Research 
Institute and our Chengdu Research Institute, these 
strategic platforms provide a springboard for CityU to 
enhance our participation in the Belt and Road national 
initiative, expand the career pathways of our graduates, 
and extend the global outreach of our professional 
education, research, and knowledge transfer activities. 
The CityU Research Centre on One-Belt-One-Road signed 
an agreement in 2016 with Tsinghua University and 
the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe 
to establish the International PPP Specialist Centre of 
Excellence for Public Transport Logistics. 
To encourage entrepreneurship, an online collection of 
relevant information has been created and available 
for use from 2015, covering a wide range of topics 
from creativity to practical tips on business plan writing 
to fundraising from venture capital investors (http://libguides.library.cityu.edu.hk/entrep). In partnership with 
Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation 
(HKSTP), CityU runs the CityU–HKSTP Incubator Scheme 
as part of a joint university incubation programme that 
provides financial subsidies and mentorship for selected 
student entrepreneurs. 
5. Enhance Good Governance and the CityU 
Brand
Effective engagement activities and our strong 
performance in world rankings have substantially 
strengthened the CityU brand, resulting in enhanced 
support and donations from the community. The 
University received major donations including HK$500M 
from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust in 2017 
to build the One Health Tower, HK$200M from Dr Yeung 
Kin-man and HK$100M from Dr and Mrs Li Dak-sum in 
2015, HK$100M from BOCHK Charitable Foundation in 
2017, and HK$120M from Dr The Honourable Lee Shau-
15
16kee, GBM in 2018. Community support is also evidenced 
by alumni engagement. In 2017, over 5,000 alumni, 
students, staff and their families participated in the 
homecoming gala and campus run. Alumni events were 
also held outside Hong Kong in locations including Gold 
Coast, London, San Francisco, Shanghai, Singapore, 
Sydney, Toronto and Xichang. 
The University is committed to excellence, good 
governance and accountability. Particular efforts have 
been made to address long-term issues in human 
resources. In 2018, the University implemented a one-
off voluntary departure scheme, a new human resources 
model with some human resources operations delegated 
to academic units and a job rotation of eight senior 
administrative staff. In 2019, the long-standing complex 
grading structure for non-academic staff was simplified 
to a seven-level broad banding structure. These initiatives 
helped enhance the performance quality of the University 
and strengthened the sense of ownership of academic 
units, hence raising operational effectiveness and 
ensuring the efficiency of the search for talent, which 
is key to the University’s strategic development. The 
University has continued to ensure its financial well-being 
as well as promoting the general well-being of the staff 
at work. The Staff Social Club was launched in 2015 and 
health/sustainability initiatives such as “Wellness For All” 
and “No Straw Campus @ CityU” were introduced. In 2017 
and 2019, the University was awarded the prestigious 
international Silver Level and in 2020 the highest Gold Level “Exercise is Medicine on Campus” recognition from 
the American College of Sports Medicine. 
We have intensified our efforts towards institutional 
identity building and strengthened our image as 
a leading global university pursuing high levels of 
excellence and promoting innovation. In 2019, we 
launched our redesigned website, a strategic branding 
platform that communicates our achievements and 
successes. In the same year, we released the corporate 
identity manual on the visual identity of CityU to help 
build a more effective, unifying and recognisable brand 
for all parts of the University and all the activities the 
University undertakes.
At CityU, we support the vision of excelling in research 
and professional education through artistic, innovative, 
technology-rich and cross-disciplinary exhibitions, and 
engaging with the community. Establishing an exhibition 
gallery and organising the annual CityU Arts Festival 
are two such initiatives. Since its establishment in 2015, 
the CityU Exhibition Gallery, named the Indra and Harry 
Banga Gallery in 2019, has organised cutting-edge, 
technology-rich and cross-disciplinary exhibitions to 
enhance the integration of science and art, and to inspire 
innovation at CityU. One example is the award-winning 
“ANiMAL: Art Science Nature Society” exhibition, on show 
from October 2018 to January 2019, which was unique in 
its blending of art and science and its engagement with 
some of today’s most urgent issues.
17Located in the heart of Hong Kong, CityU has gained 
a well-earned reputation as an innovative hub for 
research and professional education and for addressing 
global issues and empowering positive change. Our 
University’s unique features include its multinational 
faculty and student body and its dynamism, energy and 
boldness in tackling difficult problems under pressure. 
Our adaptability, looking outward and thinking beyond 
conventional boundaries was well illustrated when we 
promptly prepared and introduced real-time online 
learning, i.e. CityU-Learning, on a campus-wide scale 
to continue delivering teaching during the coronavirus 
epidemic in 2020. We broke records when the initiative 
went online on 7 February 2020 with more than 2,000 
students attending online classes at the same time at 
each session on that day.
The past five years have witnessed important changes 
around the world, in the mindsets of Generation Z and in the skills required for the labour market of the future, 
opening spaces for disruptive innovations and for new 
players to enter the market. We fully appreciate the 
need to meet the challenges common to all world-class 
universities, arising from technological change, the 
globalisation of higher education, and the impact of 
COVID-19. In addition, we have to map out our own 
unique path, taking into account specific challenges 
and gaps in the current planning  environment. By 
capitalising on our strengths and taking advantage of 
the opportunities available, we can define our priorities 
and set our strategic goals for successful and sustainable 
development.
4.1 Challenges to Higher Education
Greater demand for public accountability
Universities in Hong Kong are now coming under more 
external scrutiny than ever to ensure public confidence Challenges, Opportunities 
and Gapsin the Current Planning 
EnvironmentChapter Four
18in society’s investment. In 2019, the University Grants 
Committee (UGC) signed University Accountability 
Agreements (UAA) with all eight UGC-funded universities 
for the 2019–2022 triennium. In addition to setting out 
the duties and responsibilities associated with public 
funding for universities, the UAA contains performance 
indicators that the UGC will use for assessment. In 
the Research Assessment Exercise 2020, impact and 
environment were newly included in the assessment 
criteria, reflecting the government’s closer scrutiny of the 
cost-effectiveness and social relevance of research.
Analytics-enabled transformations in higher 
education
The challenge faced by universities in this area will 
require changes in culture, policy and processes. Examples 
of the positive impact of analytics on student recruitment 
and staff productivity are available but many universities 
are still lagging behind in effectively incorporating 
analytics into institutional operations. A culture of data-
driven decision-making, informed by useful and reliable 
evidence, relies on a good data platform managed by 
in-house analytical talents who are familiar with the 
operations needed to carry out authentic assessments.
Changed student profile
The demographic shift in Hong Kong caused by the 
low fertility rate has impacted the number of students 
entering higher education overall, resulting in a changed student profile. With the total number of publicly-funded 
university places remaining the same for a shrinking 
population of applicants, there has been a general drop 
in JUPAS entrance scores across the sector and, at the 
same time, more local students are being admitted from 
the non-JUPAS stream. In general, our incoming students 
are from Generation Z, a generation of digital natives 
in a truly globalised world.  Their learning preferences, 
expectation of instantaneous responses, beliefs in 
the power of working collaboratively to solve world 
problems, views of success and career aspirations are 
different from those who teach them. Social media play a 
significant role in shaping their opinions and behaviour. 
They also have their own mind-set and interpretations 
of how society should be managed and operated. These 
changes in student profile require educators to redefine 
their role to facilitate students’ development as modern 
citizens in an interconnected world. Educators need to 
offer rich and relevant input with effective, engaging 
teaching methods to help develop students' resilience, 
adaptability, creativity, communication and collaboration 
skills, empathy and emotional intelligence.  Above all, 
educators should provide students with inspiring role 
models to follow through supporting socially relevant 
scholarship, academic integrity and a commitment to 
teaching and learning.  University's ideal graduate 
outcomes need to be refined to reflect the changed 
student profile.
19Changes in skills needed for the changing 
workplace
Today’s higher education has seen a shift in teaching 
and educational trends due to the advancement of new 
technologies and new academic frameworks. Education 
reforms are called for in order to keep up with all of 
the new technological advancements and employment 
opportunities that are becoming available and to 
anticipate those that are predicted to arise. Renewing 
education to make it relevant to the workplace of 
tomorrow has become a necessity. In particular, with 
the proliferation of disruptive technologies that change 
how systems work, new jobs requiring new skills are 
created daily. The pandemic in 2020 demonstrated how 
the job market could have changed according to the 
circumstances. Future professionals need to be ready for 
lifelong learning to respond effectively to technological 
and workplace changes. Strengths in critical thinking 
and creative problem solving are therefore essential 
for success; both teachers’ role in education and the approaches to education adopted by universities need to 
be reviewed to enable them to prepare students for the 
changing workplace and for a fast-changing world.
Social changes
Academic institutions have a primary mission of teaching, 
learning and scholarship and are not an appropriate place 
for resolving political differences or imposing ideologies. 
However, we can and should help students develop the 
skills needed to exchange opinions and address social and 
political issues as educated citizens who maintain positive 
relationships with the community. Universities have a 
duty to create and maintain an environment for students 
to grow as individuals, aspire to use their gifts, make new 
friends and think independently. Social developments 
and the pace of change in Hong Kong have reminded 
universities of the need to cultivate leadership, social 
entrepreneurship, empathy and respect for others among 
our students so as to help society deal with change 
constructively and effectively.
20Information security and data protection
Information security is a major risk area for universities, 
being custodians of large amounts of digitised personal 
data. Universities need to constantly upgrade their resources 
to monitor these risks. IT infrastructure changes frequently; 
ensuring sound protection for data is a resource-intensive 
task requiring universities to update or replace obsolete 
systems and improve entry points that might be vulnerable. 
Staying vigilant against cyber threats is critical.
Growth of private higher education
Since the Hong Kong government’s promotion in 2000 
of its policy to increase the percentage of secondary 
school graduates entering further studies, there has 
been a drastic increase in the number of private degree 
providers and programmes. As of March 2020, there are 
22 local degree-awarding higher education institutions. 
The government has also started to offer a subsidy to 
undergraduates pursuing full-time degrees in non-UGC- 
funded institutions from 2017/18.
Intense competition
The University is facing increasingly intense competition, 
both at the global and the local level, for the best faculty 
and students. We need to strengthen our global outreach 
to expand connections and collaboration with talent 
around the world; continuously enhance our research 
and learning environment to attract the best faculty, 
researchers and students; and streamline procedures 
through benchmarking against top global universities.Post-crises higher education
Universities in Hong Kong are facing consequential 
challenges from the damage to campus in November 
2019 and the pandemic in 2020. The unfavourable 
environment since June 2019 has impacted not only 
our operations but also led to a reduction in different 
sources of income, on top of the costly repair bill 
resulting from the social unrest and the investment 
needed for improving campus safety and security. To 
operate effectively and to fulfil the role as a higher 
education provider after the crises, various university 
practices need to be reviewed including education 
goals, crisis management strategies, approaches to 
recruiting international students, mode of teaching 
delivery, admission and recruitment practices, outreach 
channels and support for graduate employment. In 
particular, strategies to monitor budgets, raise resources 
and donations for university advancement, and student 
activities will need to be reviewed.
4.2 Opportunities
Government priority strategic development 
areas
The government regards cutting-edge cross-disciplinary 
training as a priority strategic development area for 
strengthening Hong Kong’s talent pool. Universities are 
encouraged to devise innovative and cross-disciplinary 
programmes that will benefit society. Support for 
research has been implemented through a huge increase 
in research funding. Universities’ development directions 
21will need to align with those of the government in order 
to leverage this funding support.
Impactful research to address world issues
Many world issues — such as ageing, data protection and 
climate change — require cross-disciplinary research to 
identify effective solutions. The University can leverage 
our existing strengths in various disciplines and utilise 
our already established collaboration platforms for 
multi-disciplinary research to ensure that we continue 
to contribute meaningfully to this ongoing and vital 
endeavour.
Greater Bay Area opportunities
The development of the Guangdong–Hong Kong–Macao 
Greater Bay Area has opened up significant possibilities 
for all sectors. Both the Hong Kong government and the 
Greater Bay Area governments encourage universities in Hong Kong to offer education services in this rapidly 
developing zone. Operating a campus outside Hong 
Kong carries risks but will also create many positive 
opportunities, especially in areas of collaborative 
innovation by students and faculty. CityU was approached 
by most of the cities in the Greater Bay Area about 
collaboration possibilities. In the end, a collaboration 
agreement was signed with the Dongguan government 
in 2020.
Collaboration with top universities
With elevated strengths in research and in strategic 
areas important to society, more and more collaboration 
opportunities with top universities around the world 
are available to CityU. The University can leverage 
such collaborations for further advancement in terms 
of research capability for student development, thus 
enhancing the career prospects of our students, 
22attracting high-quality faculty and undergraduate and 
postgraduate students and strengthening the connection 
between research and teaching.
New academic facilities 
Strategic space planning is ongoing to fully utilise the 
restricted space provision at the University. Construction 
projects of different scales are in progress to address the 
University’s development needs. One key example is the 
Jockey Club One Health Tower, which has successfully 
secured government approval for the relaxation of height 
restrictions to double the available academic facilities it 
can offer, and which is targeted for completion by 2023.
4.3 Gaps
Education and student development
CityU needs to be unique in terms of the education it 
offers and its related strengths in specific research fields 
in order to become a leading university at a global 
level. The institutional practice of teaching by senior 
faculty provides an excellent stimulus for undergraduate 
students but needs to be comprehensively implemented. 
Undergraduates should be provided with fundamental 
courses from other disciplines, rather than generic 
courses, to support their major studies and widen 
their educational experience. To strengthen work-
integrated education and better prepare students for the 
changing workplace, the University will need to consider 
promoting compulsory internships and work placements and embedding more career preparation elements within 
the curriculum. Curricular and co-curricular opportunities 
to help develop students' resilience, adaptability, 
empathy and positive relationships with the community 
should be strengthened.
Research performance and technology 
translation
CityU academics have performed well in competing 
for external research funding over past years but there 
is still room for improvement: more faculty should 
become research active and generate more external 
research funding in order to sustain an excellent research 
performance and contribute to the development and 
transfer of applicable knowledge. In particular, since our 
University champions translational research — that is, the 
interdisciplinary application of the findings of science and 
technology to promote human and planetary well-being 
— every effort should be made to encourage faculty 
to undertake such research and to continue to create 
institutional arrangements that will facilitate their doing 
so. Improving our knowledge transfer infrastructure and 
promotion is much needed.
Faculty and staff advancement
To ensure a smooth succession plan to maintain our 
education and research excellence, strengthened 
measures to help develop our junior faculty should be 
adopted. The University can benchmark its provision 
23against other top universities to maintain competitiveness 
in faculty and staff recruitment. With the continued 
monitoring of non-academic staff headcount, faculty 
members have undoubtedly experienced an increase 
in their administrative workload. To ameliorate this 
situation, improve output and enable faculty to make the 
best use of their talents, it is essential for the heads of 
academic units to streamline the division of labour and 
to ensure that administrative tasks are assigned in a fair 
and timely manner. More efficient space planning also 
needs to be implemented to facilitate faculty recruitment 
by providing a pleasant working environment.
Faculty, staff and student recruitment
Our proactive global recruitment strategy has allowed 
the University to successfully increase our faculty 
strength in the past years and the same applies to our international student recruitment. However, recruitment 
is a collective task; all members of the University should 
participate in and contribute to the recruitment exercise 
to further strengthen the quality of our faculty, our staff 
and our student intake.
Centralised data analytics
In response to the challenge outlined in 4.1 above, 
improving analytics is a strategic priority. The University 
has taken steps in the past few years to strengthen the 
collection and analysis of institutional data but still 
needs to reinforce a culture of data-driven decision 
making to help deliver measurable outcomes. We need 
to strengthen our institutional infrastructure, with the 
right systems and the appropriate talent, to completely 
centralise and streamline data collection in order to 
reveal key trends and metrics, especially on aspects 
24related to student learning and development, research 
performance and financial well-being.
Campus growth
Congestion is common on campus. With various 
building projects in progress, campus safety needs to be 
guaranteed. Serious student housing shortage is a long-
standing issue; meanwhile, ageing building infrastructure 
and maintenance issues of campus buildings, which also 
have cost implications, can negatively affect end users. 
Creative solutions to space issues are needed, especially 
before the new academic buildings and residence hostels 
for students become available at the end of the next five 
years.
Support for non-local students
Providing institutional support for non-local students 
and ensuring that they are included in local student 
activities is essential. This is a cross-sector issue, 
and is thus everyone’s concern. While promoting 
internationalisation, the University needs to further 
strengthen support for non-local students and enhance 
their integration with local students to ensure that 
these ambassadors for the University return home after 
a memorable and positive experience of studying and 
living at CityU.Public relations
Good media relations and enhancing the branding of the 
University are crucial to raising our reputation among our 
stakeholders. Our public relations and communication 
infrastructure needs to be considerably improved to 
strengthen our visibility and support the University’s 
rise to the next level of development. It is everyone’s 
responsibility to promote the University by exemplifying 
our vision and mission in their professional conduct and 
reflecting a positive view of the University within their 
network.
4.4 Moving Forward
The University aims to pursue world-class research and 
education, drawing on the skills and talents of every 
member of the University in order to meet challenges, 
seize opportunities, build on our strengths and address 
any gaps in our current provision and planning as 
outlined above. The University community as a whole 
supports actions to maintain our upward trajectory in 
the 2020–2025 period within the following strategic 
themes: education and student development; research 
and knowledge transfer; faculty and staff advancement; 
campus growth and sustainability; global identity and 
university advancement.
Education &
Student
Development Resear ch &
Knowledge
TransferGlobal Identity
& University
AdvancementCampus
Growth &
SustainabilityFaculty &
Staff
Advancement2020–2025 Strategic Plan:
WORLD-CLASS RESEARCH AND EDUCA TION
Educaattion &
SSttudent
Deevelopment
Facult yy &
Stafff
Addvancement
GGllobal Identiittyy
& UUnniivveersity
AAAddvancemenntt
Reseearcch &
Knowwleedge
Traansffer
Cammpus
Growwthh &
Susta iinabilit y
25Strategic Plan 2020–2025: 
Themes and AimsChapter Five
The Strategic Plan 2020–2025 is the outcome of three 
stages of campus-wide consultations that took place 
between May and October 2019. The process was 
conducted through face-to-face in-depth interviews, 
focus group interviews, online consultations and using 
various instruments to collect information and to solicit 
input from the University community and stakeholders. 
Appendix 2 gives details of the consultation and approval 
processes.
This Plan is prepared with reference to the 25-year 
roadmap presented in Chapter 2, input collected from consultations, the existing directives and strategic plans, 
and the challenges, opportunities and gaps in the current 
planning environment.
Five strategic themes have been identified for 2020–
2025 to guide the University’s development towards 
conducting and delivering world-class research and 
education. The action aims needed to fulfil these 
strategic themes, and hence to realise CityU’s vision and 
mission to be a leading global university, are given below. 
The detailed action plans are listed in a separate booklet 
for internal reference.
25
265.1 Education and Student Development
Creating knowledge and disseminating it through 
professional education for a better society and a better 
future are core activities of any world-class university. 
CityU intends to differentiate its professional education 
from that of other universities by making the integration 
of disciplines a distinctive feature. We believe that the 
mutual enrichment of disciplines in education is vital 
to achieving the University’s mission to nurture future 
generations of professional leaders in the fast-changing, 
globalised world of the 21st century, and promoting the 
advancement of knowledge. All disciplines are branches 
of the same tree of knowledge, mutually reinforcing and 
deeply connected. A holistic learning experience that 
integrates different disciplines better prepares students 
to meet the challenges and opportunities of the future. 
Interdisciplinary teaching is encouraged to provide 
students with a diverse and intellectually stimulating 
and challenging educational experience. The curricula 
will be fine-tuned in order to transform students into 
creative problem-solvers, effective communicators and 
future leaders in order to help society deal with change 
constructively and effectively.
Teaching and research are bound together and cutting-
edge research inspires students to learn. The University 
will further strengthen the teaching–research nexus 
by implementing a more challenging curriculum that incorporates problem-based learning and research 
elements to equip students with the tools to find 
creative solutions to real-world problems. Students will 
be provided with a learning experience that involves 
tackling problems from a research perspective and 
offers rich opportunities to participate in and conduct 
innovative research in faculty-led projects through 
collaborations such as CityU’s InnoHK Laboratories and 
other research laboratories. In the digital age, emerging 
technologies such as artificial intelligence are reshaping 
the social and economic landscape. The University will 
keep the curriculum contemporary, leverage advances 
in technology and deliver a portfolio of innovative 
technology-enriched programmes to prepare students 
for careers of the future. With global competition for 
talented students, it is imperative for us to attract, admit 
and add value to high-quality, motivated students who 
will benefit from our interdisciplinary and technology-
enriched curriculum and research opportunities.
Aim 1. Develop integrated, interdisciplinary, 
cutting-edge programmes
Aim 2. Continue to strengthen the research–
teaching nexus
Aim 3. Develop a contemporary technology-
enriched curriculum
Aim 4. Improve overall quality of admissions and 
placement, and develop students’ talents
275.2 Research and Knowledge Transfer
CityU is home to some notable scholars in various 
disciplines from around the world. While ensuring 
excellence in disciplines as a foundation, the University 
promotes interdisciplinary research to extend the 
frontiers of knowledge within and beyond existing 
research disciplines in order to contribute to solutions to 
real-world problems and critical global challenges. It is 
essential to build sufficient critical mass and familiarity so 
that in time interdisciplinary work will develop a life of 
its own. While this needs to be a ‘ground up’ effort for 
sustainability, leadership/convenorship at University level 
at the initial stage is essential.
In response to global challenges, we will combine our 
collective research expertise to develop translational 
research under the following five areas: One Health: One Health will develop and 
integrate interdisciplinary, problem-based research 
collaborations and communications in all aspects 
of health-related issues, such as policy, delivery 
systems, and services related to healthcare; public 
health efficiency; food nexus; and management 
operations, biocompatible materials/coating, 
transport in biosystems, and systems engineering. 
This research area involves the complex interactions 
and inter-dependencies of animal and human 
populations with each other and the environment 
to generate better health outcomes.
 Digital Society: The potential impact of the digital 
age is enormous, entailing the use of technological 
development (such as new materials for computing, 
batteries, and sensors) to advance our economy, 
28culture and society. A thorough understanding of 
the relationship between technology and society, 
informed by the humanities, natural sciences and 
social sciences, will be generated by vigorous 
interdisciplinary research leading to substantial 
knowledge transfer activities.
 Smart City: Smart City provides a cross-cutting 
research initiative among diverse disciplines and 
programmes leading to innovative solutions 
to address regional and global concerns about 
sustainable economic development, high quality 
of life, and harmony of the built environment 
with nature. This initiative encompasses such 
challenges as sustainable energy, climate change, 
environmental degradation, urban planning, 
government regulation and the law.
 Matter: The study of matter (or materials) is 
one of the three pillars on which the modern 
civilisation is built, with the study of energy 
and information as the other two. The study 
of matter in its various forms brings together 
researchers from all the natural sciences in the 
collaborative development of science, engineering 
and technology. This interdisciplinary research 
initiative aims to provide an impetus to innovation 
through practical applications in various disciplines and fields. It therefore covers different aspects 
of research, including the theoretical, numerical 
and experimental study of matter from synthesis 
to processing and fabrication, from properties 
evaluation to modification, and from design to 
applications. Other focuses include the integration 
of advanced materials, nanotechnology and 
computer science to address major contemporary 
challenges in ageing and health, new energy 
sources and storage, environmental hazards, future 
information and communication technology, and 
additive manufacturing routes such as 3D/4D 
printing.
 Brain: Research topics related to the human brain 
and the computer brain — that is, neuroscience 
and artificial intelligence — provide a deep 
understanding of the potential of the human–
machine interface as well as creating significant 
improvements in productivity, thus driving the 
advancement of human intelligence and society 
as a whole. The understanding of the brain and 
the understanding of the mind are inseparable. 
Cognitive science is based on the assumption that 
human cognition can be modelled as computation. 
With the help of brain imaging, in combination 
with extensive health records, clinical data and 
genetic data, interdisciplinary collaborative 
29efforts covering biology, neuroscience, medicine, 
psychology, computer science and linguistics 
can help us better understand the structure and 
functions of the brain, study the pathology and 
genetic predisposition of neurological disorders, 
and contribute to developing diagnostic tools and 
treatments for disease. This area of study therefore 
connects with the first research area — One Health 
— and suggests that collaboration between the 
areas we have identified, as well as within them, 
could be productive.
To directly benefit Hong Kong and beyond, CityU 
supports technology and non-technology knowledge 
transfer and actively engages in global research 
collaborations to help solve real-world problems. In 
pursuing research in specific interdisciplinary areas, as 
outlined above, we therefore aim to:
Aim 5. Achieve global leadership in science, 
engineering and life sciencesAim 6. Develop translational research within five 
interdisciplinary focal areas (One Health, 
Digital Society, Smart City, Matter, Brain) 
Aim 7. Improve knowledge transfer 
infrastructure and promotion 
Aim 8. Lead global research networks to create 
positive social impact
5.3 Faculty and Staff Advancement
CityU’s most important asset is its human capital: 
students, faculty and staff. The remarkable achievements 
of our community over the past decades have made CityU 
one of the world’s outstanding universities. In order 
to continue our upward trajectory, it is of the utmost 
importance that we continue to attract talented people 
and motivate them to grow with us. 
To achieve this aim, we need to cultivate an inclusive 
workplace that embraces greater diversity, promotes 
30care and love for one another, respects differences, 
and nurtures individual talent. We must set priorities 
to recruit talented people with diverse backgrounds 
from around the world and support them to become 
stars in their field. In the current circumstances, creative 
approaches are needed to instil confidence among 
overseas talents to work in Hong Kong. We will also 
strengthen our management model further to improve 
accountability and efficiency, through appropriate 
delegation and vigilant streamlining of structures and 
processes. Our existing human resources policies provide 
the framework to reward performance and we will 
continue to refine these policies to respond to the rapidly 
changing external environment.
Aim 9.  Further improve number, quality, diversity 
and retention of high-performing faculty 
and staff
Aim 10. Maintain faculty and staff well-being and 
promote organisational inclusion 
Aim 11. Enhance knowledge generation and 
recognise faculty output
Aim 12. Strengthen the accountability of unit 
heads for effective unit management 
5.4 Campus Growth and Sustainability
Hong Kong is a vibrant but crowded city: these two factors are exemplified in our city campus. Despite a 
comprehensive and ambitious campus plan providing 
significant additional buildings for students and faculty, 
space remains at a premium. Improvements to space 
allocation methodology, adoption of smart campus 
initiatives and the use of effective initiatives including 
data analytics-based decision making will help to ensure 
we make the best use of our existing provision. However, 
the rapid development of the Greater Bay Area on the 
Mainland, in addition to other potential offshore sites, 
provides a timely opportunity to take advantage of 
preferential terms for strategic expansion. Therefore, the 
provision of new space away from the main campus to 
facilitate growth in our key areas is a pressing demand 
over the period of this and successive strategic plans.
The University places top priority on campus safety and 
security for faculty and students to conduct academic 
activities freely. Also, whilst expansion is necessary, this 
must be achieved in a sustainable and effective way to 
ensure that the University can continue to attract the 
very best talents in terms of faculty and students. Our 
world faces significant environmental, economic and 
social challenges, from inequality to climate change, 
food security and water shortages. Universities must 
take the lead in acting now to create a world that 
can support generations to come. CityU already has a 
strong strategy for sustainability, incorporating social, 
31economic and environmental principles that have been 
in place for a decade or more. The development and 
operation of effective self-sustaining campuses, utilising 
the latest developments in green technology, will ensure 
we continue to take a leading role in these global 
endeavours.
Aim 13. Maintain a safe and harmonious campus 
environment 
Aim 14. Operate self-sustaining campuses on 
the Mainland and elsewhere to focus 
on physical science, engineering and life 
sciences
Aim 15. Manage each campus through efficient 
planning and effective implementation
Aim 16. Synergise data analytics systems centrally 
to aid decision making
Aim 17. Continue to promote a sustainable green 
campus5.5 Global Identity and University 
Advancement
CityU is very much embedded in the Greater China Region 
and has become a regional hub for higher education. The 
University looks outward and thinks beyond conventional 
boundaries to educate the future generation of 
professionals who will work in a range of cultures. Our 
internationalised education system underscores the 
importance of equipping students with an international 
horizon and nurturing global citizenship. The enormous 
efforts already made towards CityU’s internationalisation 
agenda have been well recognised internationally. CityU 
is ranked 1st in THE World University Rankings 2019 in 
“International Outlook” and in THE Most International 
Universities 2020. The University is ready to devote more 
energy and resources to expanding its global partnership 
with overseas institutions in order to provide a diverse 
menu of overseas learning opportunities and learning 
32experiences. The University will continue to develop 
networks around the world through partnerships with 
industry and with universities and other institutions that 
empower CityU as an international reference brand.
CityU’s global reputation largely stems from its world-
class research and professional education. The University 
has become known for academically rigorous research in 
several fields, identifying and addressing grand challenges 
that impact the development of society and the future. 
Building upon past achievements, the University will 
reinforce areas in which we already have expertise and 
strength. As we look to the future, the University will 
identify and develop areas of internationally recognised 
research expertise as well as identify new areas with 
the potential to engage stakeholders and supporters 
directly and society more generally. CityU is committed to 
developing global excellence in a broader range of fields 
of science and engineering, not simply in a few niche 
areas. To increase our global reputation, we will promote 
our achievements and high-impact research in a more 
coherent, targeted manner and highlight our value to a 
wider range of stakeholders, including scholars, students, 
employers, government agencies, professional bodies, 
international organisations, donors and alumni. Through 
a review of our public relations strategy and publicity 
activities, the University will take a proactive approach 
to improving the effectiveness of communications and 
promotions.Aim 18.  Expand global outreach, promote diversity 
and foster an inclusive, multicultural 
environment
Aim 19. Develop global excellence in more areas 
and fields to increase recognition of the 
University’s accomplishments
Aim 20. Attract further community support for 
University advancement
Aim 21. Promote proactive approaches to public 
relations
33From Planning to
Implementation to Monitoring 
ProgressChapter Six
The Strategic Plan 2020–2025 builds upon and extends 
the aspirations defined in the University’s Strategic Plan 
for 2015–2020. It identifies aims under five strategic 
themes to guide the University’s development over the 
next five-year period, along the trajectory set for the 
next 25 years. Our overall goal is to further elevate the 
academic excellence, international and local standing, 
and societal importance of CityU.The development of this Strategic Plan has benefited 
from the wisdom of the CityU community at all levels 
through consultation meetings and subsequent 
submissions from related units, as outlined in Appendix 
2. We are committed to putting into action the aims 
identified: all academic and non-academic units will 
be involved in developing their specific action plans, 
including objectives, performance indicators and 
33
34timelines, in a manner that aligns with the aims identified 
as well as with reference to the standards and practice of 
leading institutions and the key performance indicators 
set by the University. Our purpose is to integrate the 
implementation of these plans into the daily operations 
of the University, with all units working together to meet 
their targets. The annual planning and budgeting process 
will provide the framework for making the Strategic 
Plan operational at the unit levels of the University. Vice-
Presidents and equivalent, who will be the owners of 
action plan items related to their areas of responsibility, 
will monitor progress through annual reports from 
the units that they line manage. They will report on 
implementation progress annually to the President’s 
Cabinet and a review of the 2020–2023 progress of these 
action plans will be conducted by the President’s Cabinet 
prior to preparation for the next Strategic Plan.In the light of the fast-changing landscape and rapid 
developments in global higher education and the local 
social situation, this Strategic Plan should be treated 
as a living document, adaptable and open to new and 
unexpected opportunities, while working towards 
the long-term goals outlined in Chapter 2. As a great 
university, we seek not only to respond to change, but to 
anticipate it and, when required, to help facilitate it.
Appendix 1
35University  
Major Achievements 
2015–2020
The Strategic Plan 2015–2020 has positioned CityU as a progressive global university, 
and has mapped out a clear set of goals and action plans for nurturing a new breed of 
professionals with creative skills and an innovative mind-set to respond to the challenges 
and opportunities of the fast-changing, knowledge-driven global environment.
This document takes stock of the major milestones, accomplishments and initiatives of 
the University in 2015–2020, which have significantly put CityU on an upward trajectory 
towards becoming a leading global university, excelling in research and professional 
education while serving the citizens of Hong Kong and ensuring our students are well 
prepared professionally for the fast-changing global environment of the 21st century. 
It provides a basis for considering how we should strategically invest our resources and 
successfully implement innovations. Only by doing this will we enable the University 
to reach the next level of excellence in interdisciplinary, applicable research and in 
technology-driven professional education.
“Milestones”, “Accomplishments” and “Supporting Initiatives”
In this document, the term “Milestones” is used to refer to major events, markers 
of the progress attained by the University relative to the academic aspirations and 
strategic goals set forth in the Strategic Plan 2015–2020. The term “Accomplishments” 
refers to significant campus achievements that have contributed to progress in the 
five overarching strategic themes. “Supporting Initiatives” are capacity-building or 
enhancement measures introduced to underpin the implementation of the Strategic 
Plan on campus within the past five years.
The data and information in Appendix 1 were extracted from CityU‘s NewsCentre, 
University Announcements and other publicly accessible information. Among the many 
accomplishments reported in these sources, only the more significant are listed here. 
Similarly, for events or initiatives that were organised repeatedly, only the first or the 
more significant ones are listed.
CityU established the School of Data Science and the Hong Kong Institute for Data Science in 
2018 to directly respond to the increased demand for data scientists and engineers who will 
support future societal and economic developments, while the interdisciplinary Bachelor of 
Science in Data Science programme was offered from 2019/20.
CityU’s College of Science and Engineering was restructured in 2018/19 into the College of 
Science and the College of Engineering to enable both colleges to move forward in their 
respective fields with a clear focus through targeted and strategic allocation of resources. Also 
in 2018/19, for the same reasons, the Department of Biomedical and Mechanical Engineering 
was restructured into two departments. To better reflect their strengths, the Department of 
Biology and Chemistry and the Department of Physics and Materials Science were retitled in 
2017 as the Department of Chemistry and the Department of Physics respectively.
CityU established two new departments under the Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Life Sciences. The Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health was set up in 2017 
to train veterinary professionals and to undertake state-of-the-art research on public health and 
animal health-related issues. The Department of Neuroscience commenced operations in 2019 
to create a modern neuroscience curriculum, to attract innovative scientists in this field and to 
encourage interdisciplinary research endeavours that draw on the existing strengths of CityU in 
biological sciences, veterinary medicine, engineering and computational science.
The Department of Materials Science and Engineering was established in 2017 to develop 
internationally competitive and leading-edge research and provide a professional education 
curriculum that can contribute to Hong Kong, Greater China, and the whole world in materials 
science, engineering and related sectors. 
CityU, in collaboration with Cornell University, offered the first six-year bachelor of veterinary 
medicine programme in 2017/18 to promote One Health and sustainable development, and to 
expand educational choice and career paths for our youth. Since 2019/20, the programme has 
been UGC-funded.
CityU set up CityU-Learning, a university-wide real-time online learning system, within a few 
days during the coronavirus epidemic in early 2020 for over 1,000 academic staff and all local 
and non-local students by customising and integrating various tools. It was record-breaking 
when the initiative went online on 7 February 2020 with more than 2,000 students attending 
online classes at the same time at each session on that day.Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional Educationa. Major Milestones
36
CityU launched a set of distinctive massive open online courses (MOOCs) in 2015/16, highlighting 
the University's expertise in entrepreneurship, Chinese culture, and media art. These MOOCs 
have been broadcast on several international platforms, including Futurelearn in the UK and 
CNMOOC in China. 
CityU sports teams extended their dominance in inter-varsity sports competitions by winning 
a record-breaking 9th Grand Slam in the 2016/17 annual sports competitions, organised by The 
University Sports Federation of Hong Kong, China.Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional Education
In 2015, CityU established the Hong Kong Institute for Advanced Study, an international 
centre of excellence for the advancement of technology and innovation, bringing together an 
interdisciplinary team of world-renowned scholars and researchers, including Nobel laureates 
and academicians, to contribute to solutions for pressing real-world problems.
CityU established the Hong Kong Branch of National Precious Metals Material Engineering 
Research Center in 2015 to promote research and applications of precious metal elements 
and nanomaterial engineering technology, professional training and academic exchange, as 
approved by Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China.
On top of having two state key laboratories on campus, with the approval of the Ministry of 
Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China, CityU established the Hong Kong 
Branch of Chinese National Engineering Research Center in 2015.
CityU acquired the Peace Avenue Veterinary Clinic (now named CityU Veterinary Medical 
Centre), a leading companion animal clinic in Hong Kong, in 2016 as a strategic investment for 
the University and for veterinary medicine and animal welfare in Hong Kong.
CityU established the CityU Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory in 2017, a subsidiary to provide 
the most comprehensive and advanced veterinary diagnostic laboratory services in Asia, and to 
identify, track and address emerging animal diseases and public health issues.Expand Interdisciplinarity and Team-based Research to Address Global Challenges
37
CityU established partnerships with world-renowned universities, including Columbia University, 
National Taiwan University and Leuphana University, to offer a variety of joint bachelor's degree 
programmes in the 2015–2020 period.
CityU launched the “Diversity Grant” in 2016/17 to increase the diversity of the non-local student 
population and successfully recruited international students from 71 countries in 2019/20.Strengthen Internationalisation and Global Partnerships
CityU ranked 63rd among the Top 100 Worldwide Universities Granted US Utility Patents in 2018 
and was top in Hong Kong in the period 2016–2018 for receiving the highest number of US 
utility patents.
CityU launched the CLP Low Carbon Energy Education Centre in 2017, the first of its kind, to 
bring together professional bodies, green groups, government departments and businesses to 
promote public education on climate change and to develop innovative solutions through cross-
sectoral collaboration.
CityU signed an agreement with the Dongguan government in 2020 to develop a multilateral 
and interdisciplinary platform to strengthen collaborations in education, research, technology 
transfer and innovation.Enlarge Capacity for Knowledge Transfer and Entrepreneurship
CityU was ranked 49th in the world in QS World University Rankings 2018 and ranked 1st in Hong 
Kong among the indicators of citations per faculty and international faculty.
CityU Exhibition Gallery, renamed as the Indra and Harry Banga Gallery in 2019, was set up 
and held its first exhibition in 2015 to support the University’s vision of excelling in research 
and professional education through artistic, innovative, technology-rich and cross-disciplinary 
exhibitions that engage with the community.
In 2016, the CityU community chose the Brazil Bougainvillea as the University Flower, expressing 
the dynamic, colourful and resilient CityU spirit.
CityU received a HK$500M donation from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust in 2017 to 
help build a high quality facility for One Health in Hong Kong.
In 2019, CityU launched the Broad Band Structure for Non-academic Staff to simplify the old 
structure from over 50 staff grades to seven. The new structure integrates housing benefits into 
a total package for easy administration, allows a broad latitude on pay enhancing flexibility to 
attract talented staff, and supports pay adjustment for performance management.
Also in 2019, CityU launched its redesigned website, adopting a modern, vibrant and easy-to-use 
navigation interface to deliver a dynamic and coherent branding message, one that encourages 
content discovery and enhances the user experience. In addition, the corporate identity manual 
on the visual identity of CityU was released to help build a more effective, unifying and 
recognisable brand for all parts of the University and all the activities the University undertakes.Enhance Good Governance and the CityU Brand
38
b. Major Accomplishments
A CityU team received the 2017 Team Award for Teaching Excellence from the University Grants 
Committee (UGC) for our groundbreaking Discovery-enriched Curriculum.
CityU students' urban media artworks were exhibited on the 77,000-square-metre façade of the 
International Commerce Centre, the largest urban display screen in the world, in 2015.
CityU students, along with students from another local university, were awarded a cash prize of 
HK$100,000 from a panel of respected banking and technology experts in the Student Category 
of the HSBC Safeguard App Competition 2017 for their proposal for an easy-to-navigate 
interface for users to monitor and maintain their account security.
A CityU PhD student in the Department of Mechanical and Biomedical Engineering, competing 
with roughly 130 contestants from 12 countries and regions, was awarded First Prize in the 
International Bionic Innovation Competition 2017 by the International Society of Bionic 
Engineering.
In 2018, a CityU student team won the First Prize in the ICC International Commercial Mediation 
Competition — Hong Kong, beating 15 other teams from universities in Hong Kong and the 
Asia Pacific Region, including countries along the Belt & Road.
In 2018, CityU PhD students from the Department of Media and Communication and 
Department of Social and Behavioural Sciences were awarded the Fulbright-RGC Hong Kong 
Research Scholar Award Programme funded by the US government.
In 2019, a CityU student team outperformed more than 150 other teams in the KPMG Business 
Administration Paper organised by the Hong Kong Federation of Business Students to win the 
championship for their system that helps property management companies control energy 
consumption in order to create a better and smarter society.
CityU student teams from the “Jockey Club Enhancing Youth Empathy Project through 
Immersive Visualisation” won the prestigious Hong Kong ICT Awards 2019 for innovative 
projects that aim to improve the quality of life for people with disabilities. One team beat 400 
other student teams to win the Student Innovation Grand Award and the Student Innovation 
(Post-Secondary and Undergraduate) Gold Award. The other team won the Student Innovation 
(Post-Secondary and Undergraduate) Silver Award.
A CityU alumnus won the Best New Director award at the 53rd Taipei Golden Horse Awards and 
the Best Director at the 23rd Hong Kong Film Critics Society Awards in 2016 for his first feature 
film.
Another CityU alumnus was a member of an animation team that won an Oscar in 2018 for Best 
Animated Feature.
Six outstanding local CityU undergraduate students were awarded HSBC Overseas Scholarships 
in 2016–2020 to study at universities abroad for one semester or more to maximise their 
exposure and equip them with real-world experience.Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional Education
39
In 2020, a CityU-led research team developed a new form of a droplet-based electricity 
generator with a drop of water lighting up 100 small LED bulbs. It features a field-effect 
transistor (FET)-like structure that allows for high energy-conversion efficiency, and its 
instantaneous power density is increased by thousands of times compared to its counterparts 
without FET-like structure. This groundbreaking achievement can help to advance scientific 
research into water energy generation and tackle the energy crisis.
In 2019, a CityU biomedical research team developed a groundbreaking technology that can 
accurately perform early screening for cancer cells and effectively monitor disease status. With 
an accuracy rate of over 90%, the new technology can detect cancer cells with as little as 4 ml of 
blood in no more than five minutes, allowing a patient to know his or her risk of cancer as soon 
as possible. The new technology can also monitor the effectiveness of drugs used for medical 
treatment. 
In 2019, a CityU-led research team, including members from Harvard University and renowned 
information technologies laboratory Nokia Bell Labs, has successfully fabricated a tiny on-chip 
lithium niobate modulator, an electro-optic modulator which is more efficient, with faster data 
transmission and lower costs for the 5G communication.
In 2019, CityU researchers developed technology that can optimise mobile network design and 
reduce the energy consumption of the base stations by a minimum of 4.5%. 
In 2019, a CityU-led research team from the Department of Biomedical Engineering and 
Department of Biomedical Sciences, with Harvard Medical School, found a shortcut to develop 
new drugs, speeding up the discovery process and saving costs.
In 2018, a CityU-led research team developed new super alloys that are extremely strong, yet 
ductile and flexible, paving the way for developing equipment that can operate at extremely 
low temperatures and in aerospace systems that operate at extremely high temperatures.
In 2018, a CityU-led research team discovered that diamonds can undergo ultra-large, fully 
reversible elastic deformation at nanoscale, paving the way for diamond’s practical applications 
in nano-mechanical engineering, biomedical engineering, photonics, optoelectronics, and ultra-
strength materials.
Ten CityU faculty members were named by Clarivate Analytics as Highly Cited Researchers 
for 2018, reflecting the high academic standard of our faculty and our excellent research 
performance. 
CityU co-established the Joint Laboratory on Neutron Scattering, which was officially opened 
in 2019 with the Institute of High Energy Physics under the Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
enhancing Hong Kong's role in developing science and technology in the Greater Bay Area.Expand Interdisciplinarity and Team-based Research to Address Global Challenges
40
Expand Interdisciplinarity and Team-based Research to Address Global Challenges
Four CAS–CityU joint laboratories (of nanomaterials and nanomechanics, for robotics, for 
functional materials and devices, and on neutron scattering science and technology) were 
accredited by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) in the evaluation conducted in 2018. 
Among them, the Joint Laboratory of Nanomaterials and Nanomechanics was ranked by CAS as 
an “Outstanding” joint laboratory; and the Joint Laboratory on Neutron Scattering Science and 
Technology was ranked 1st among five new joint laboratories. In addition, in 2019, CityU teams 
secured HK$12M from the Research Grants Council under the Joint Laboratory Funding Scheme 
to enhance the research infrastructure of the CAS–CityU joint laboratories in Hong Kong.
CityU research teams were awarded RMB66.2M in funding for research projects in 2016 through 
the CityU Shenzhen Research Institute, representing a jump of 66% compared to funding in the 
previous year.
A CityU research team was awarded more than HK$40M in funding in 2016 from the Research 
Grants Council to develop a platform of tools to improve safety and dependability of high 
speed rail and metro systems.
CityU research teams were awarded about HK$35M in funding in 2019 by the Agriculture, 
Fisheries and Conservation Department for three research projects to enhance the sustainability, 
health and production of local pig farms, poultry farms and fisheries.
A CityU-led international research team was awarded HK$28M in funding in 2016 by the 
Theme-based Research Scheme of the Research Grants Council for the design of a compact and 
affordable terahertz system that can be used to detect contaminants in food and drugs, and 
also cancerous cells and tumours.
CityU research teams were awarded HK$25M in funding under the Collaborative Research Fund 
Scheme of the Research Grants Council in the 2016/17 exercise to advance research into crucial 
tumour features, multidimensional big data analysis, threats to coral ecosystems and memory 
formation.
For the two state key laboratories and the Hong Kong Branch of Chinese National Engineering 
Research Center on campus, the annual funding support from the Innovation and Technology 
Commission for the laboratories was increased to HK$10M each from 2019 onwards. 
A CityU faculty member won the Silver Medal Award from the Journal of International Business 
Studies, a leading publication in the international business field, for his substantive research 
contributions.
A company founded by CityU alumni, Vitargent (International) Biotechnology Limited, won the 
Grand Prix of the 43rd International Exhibition of Inventions of Geneva in 2015 for its first-in-
the-world “transgenic medaka” and “zebrafish fish” embryo toxicity testing technologies to 
enhance global product safety testing standards.
41
Strengthen Internationalisation and Global Partnerships
CityU was a co-creator in a HK$216M project funded by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities 
Trust in 2016 to promote computational thinking and coding skills in primary schools.
CityU received over HK$15M funding from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust in 2017 
to promote youth empathy through immersive visualisation.
CityU achieved an invention commercialisation rate of 20.1% in 2017/18 with a well-established 
administrative framework and policy protecting the intellectual property generated from 
research activities.
CityU had over 1,500 partnerships in 2018 with companies, NGOs and government organisations 
on various knowledge transfer activities and collaborations.
CityU's groundbreaking wireless charging technology contributed to society and, in 2018, 
attracted the highest-ever license fee revenues received by the University for an invention. 
In 2019, the CityU-led “Jockey Club Enhancing Youth Empathy Project through Immersive 
Visualisation” co-organised, with the Hong Kong Science Museum, the first-ever cetacean-
themed exhibition in Hong Kong titled “CSI of the Cetaceans: Hope of Solutions”.Enlarge Capacity for Knowledge Transfer and EntrepreneurshipA CityU student project to promote internationalisation, with students from diverse 
backgrounds, was selected by the University Grants Committee in 2015 as the best sector-wide 
student-initiated project for encouraging multicultural integration.
CityU had 416 student exchange partners in 45 countries and regions in 2019.
Over 50% of CityU undergraduates had international experience in 2019 lasting from one to 
several months, providing multicultural exposure for our students.
CityU‘s non-local students constituted about one-third of the total student population in 2019 
with students coming from Europe, Central and South America and Africa, as well as Asia.
42
CityU received a HK$200M donation from Dr Yeung Kin-man in 2015 to support the veterinary 
medicine school, students’ overseas exchanges, and the strategic development of the University.
CityU received a donation of HK$100M from BOCHK Charitable Foundation in 2017 to support 
development of veterinary medicine and students' overseas exchanges and internships.
CityU received HK$100M from Dr and Mrs Li Dak-sum in 2015 to support development of 
veterinary medicine.
CityU received a donation of HK$120M from Dr The Honourable Lee Shau-kee, GBM in 2018 to 
support the long-term development of the University and to provide funding for the setting up 
of named chair professorships and student scholarships to promote academic advancement and 
student awards.
CityU celebrated the 20th anniversary in 2016 of the annual programme series “Wellness March”, 
which plays an important role in promoting a healthy campus for the CityU community through 
a series of competitions, exhibitions, workshops, talks and physical activities.
In 2016, CityU Students' Union resumed its 20-year-long tradition of running the CityU Banquet, 
attended by about 1,000 Council members, faculty, staff, students and alumni.
CityU was awarded Hong Kong’s FuturArc Green Leadership Award 2015, recognising its 
leadership in promoting sustainable architecture in the Lau Ming Wai Academic Building.
CityU received the Distinguished Family-Friendly Employers Award, the Family-Friendly 
Employers Award, and the Award for Breastfeeding Support from the Home Affairs Bureau and 
the Family Council in 2016, for our commitment to promoting a healthy and productive campus 
with a sound work-life balance and family-friendly policies.
CityU won FoodEver Award Diamond Class in 2016/17 and WasteWi$e certificate Excellence 
Level for 17 years consecutively since 2002 for taking a lead to influence our community to 
reduce food waste.
CityU was awarded second place in the Best Career Services Satisfaction Award and third place 
in the Best University Brand Perception Award, among more than 2,000 universities worldwide, 
in the Universum Talent 2018 Survey.
CityU has formed teams participating in the Hong Kong Marathon since 2008. The number of 
participants rose from 260 in 2008 to 1,100 in 2019 including students, alumni, staff and family 
members, along with students and teachers of special needs schools.
CityU was recognised with the “Silver Level Campus” award in both 2017 and 2019 and then 
the highest award "Gold Level Campus" in early 2020 from the American College of Sports 
Medicine for campus involvement and engagement in physical activity, aligning with the 
“Exercise is Medicine” principles and goals.
CityU won in the category “Onsite Digital Experience” at the Alliance of American Museums 
Convention in 2019 for the “ANiMAL: Art Science Nature Society” exhibition that combined the 
strengths of the School of Creative Media at CityU and the National Palace Museum in Taipei.Enhance Good Governance and the CityU Brand
43
c. Major Supporting Initiatives
CityU established the Center for Business Analytics in 2015 with IBM to support the University’s 
curriculum and talent development, and build a healthy eco-system between the University and 
the industry in big data and analytics.
CityU hosted its first Employers’ Luncheon in 2015 to strengthen connections with global and 
local businesses, and showcase exceptional student achievements to prospective employers.
CityU launched the Golden Key Club in 2015 to strengthen the competitiveness of graduates in 
their career development. It provides a platform for scholarship recipients, past and present, to 
share information and experience.
CityU has been organising the CityU Arts Festival since 2015 to connect CityU students with 
professional artists. Partnerships with performers from music departments of Mainland and 
overseas institutions (e.g. from Poland) enable our students to acquire professional music and 
stage performance experience.
CityU launched the Executive Mentorship Program in 2016 to enhance students’ understanding 
of the real-world environment, help them build social networks and obtain advice for career 
and personal development through professional coaching and interaction with successful 
business executives.
CityU sent more than 80 students to participate in 2016 summer overseas internships, lasting 
between 8 and 12 weeks, in six international cities through the Global Work Attachment 
Programme.
CityU launched the CityU Scholarships for Hong Kong Talents in 2016 to attract high-performing 
local students to apply for CityU’s UGC-funded undergraduate programmes.
CityU launched the Servant Leadership Training Programme in 2016 to develop a positive 
attitude and a service-driven mindset in students.
CityU launched CRESDA, a unique mobile-friendly platform to keep track of students’ activities, 
skills development and awards, and to promote students' self-development and enhance their 
career planning and employability, in 2016.
CityU launched a series of SPECIAL Hall Night Talks in student residences in 2016 by engaging 
distinguished speakers, company directors and celebrities to share their stories on “Serve the 
world”, “Passion”, “Entrepreneurship”, “Coding”, “Aspiration” and “Life & care” with student 
residents.
CityU commenced the development of the Jockey Club One Health Tower in 2017 to provide new 
space for strategic initiatives such as the Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine and Life 
Sciences, a new auditorium to host international conferences and an enhanced sports centre.
CityU organised the CityU Career Festival 2017, participated in by 87 reputable companies, to 
help students prepare for their future careers and provide them with a valuable opportunity to 
connect with employers and industry practitioners.Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional Education
44
CityU has provided support services for students with special educational needs (SEN) since 
2017 and has strengthened its networks with industry, NGOs and government to expand SEN 
students’ opportunities for work-related experience and foster knowledge transfer activities.
CityU received a HK$3M donation from Tin Ka Ping Foundation in 2018 to fund three 
programmes to promote Chinese culture - “Teaching & Learning Development Programmes and 
Historical and Cultural Study Tours”, the “City•Cultural Space” programme, and the “Tracing 
the Roots of Hakka Culture and Exploring the Origins of the One Belt, One Road Initiative” 
programme.
CityU developed a pilot scheme for University-reserved off-campus accommodation options 
in 2019 for full-time government-funded undergraduate students and year-long inbound 
exchange students who need housing.
CityU launched the Community Engagement Programme in 2019 to provide a platform to link 
CityU students with the community, engaging them in a variety of extra-curricular service-
learning experiences.
CityU provided real-time, interactive career counselling sessions and career training workshops 
to both undergraduate and postgraduate students in order to deliver the much-needed career 
service during the coronavirus epidemic in 2020.Deepen Discovery & Innovation in Professional Education
CityU acquired a site in Lam Tsuen, Tai Po to build a teaching farm in 2018 to benefit the 
students and researchers working in the Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine and Life 
Sciences, and to enhance our vision for One Health and food safety in Hong Kong and beyond.
CityU opened the Research Centre for Sustainable Hong Kong in 2017 for the analysis and 
development of solutions to critical sustainability issues in Hong Kong.Expand Interdisciplinarity and Team-based Research to Address Global Challenges
CityU launched a Yoga Day in student residences, engaging the Indian Consulate and Indian 
community in Hong Kong for three consecutive years since 2015.
CityU, in collaboration with the National Palace Museum in Taipei, presented “Rebuilding the 
Tong-an Ships New Media Art Exhibition” in 2015, a new media art exhibition that brought 
ancient ships and seafaring culture to life.
CityU, in collaboration with the National Palace Museum in Taipei, presented the “Giuseppe 
Castiglione — Lang Shining New Media Art Exhibition” in 2016, using 4G mobile technology to 
enable a virtual and physical presentation of the artwork of Castiglione, an artist at the imperial 
court of three Qing emperors.
CityU launched the Non-Local Student Athletes Admission Scheme in 2017 to attract high-
performing international athletes to CityU and further enhance the performance of our sports 
teams.
CityU has held the Dialogue Series with Consuls General since 2017 to provide opportunities for 
CityU students and faculty members to communicate with diplomats.Strengthen Internationalisation and Global Partnerships
45
CityU, in collaboration with Le French May, presented “The Roofs of Paris Exhibition” and “The 
Cabinets of Curiosities. From the Natural Sciences to the Art of Nature. Collections from France 
and Hong Kong” at CityU Exhibition Gallery in 2017 and 2018 respectively.
CityU became a founding member of the Blockchain consortium in 2018 and developed 
Blockchain software in 2019 to share academic credentials in a safe and secure IT environment.
CityU, in collaboration with the General Consulate of France in Hong Kong and Macau, 
presented “Art Deco. The France–China Connection” at CityU Exhibition Gallery in 2019.
CityU, in collaboration with the Veneranda Biblioteca Ambrosiana, Milan, presented “Leonardo 
da Vinci: Art & Science. Then & Now” in 2019 that featured for the first time in Hong Kong 
12 original da Vinci drawings and showcased his machine models and a replica of one of his 
famous paintings.Strengthen Internationalisation and Global Partnerships
CityU established a complete innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem in 2015 to offer 
comprehensive support at all stages of an entrepreneurial pursuit, from skills enhancement and 
physical space for start-ups to financial support worth at least HK$6.5M in total per year, plus 
additional investment capital for mature enterprises.
An online collection of information related to entrepreneurship has been created and available 
for use from 2015, covering a wide range of topics from creativity to practical tips on business 
plan writing to fundraising from venture capital investors (http://libguides.library.cityu.edu.hk/
entrep).
CityU Industrial and Business Leaders Circle was established in 2016 as a platform for 
strengthening communications with industry and business leaders and for sharing experiences 
and soliciting support for University advancement.
CityU Research Centre on One-Belt-One-Road signed an agreement in 2016 with Tsinghua 
University and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe to establish the 
International PPP Specialist Centre of Excellence for Public Transport Logistics.
CityU inaugurated the CityU Chengdu Research Institute in May 2017, jointly developed with the 
Shuangliu District’s Government of Chengdu, to focus on applied research and industry service, 
targeting demand for societal development and industry advancement on the Mainland.
CityU partnered with Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation (HKSTP) in 2017 to 
launch a joint university incubation programme.  Student participants can enjoy the facilities 
and benefits of HKSTP’s own incubation programme at Science Park in Shatin and those of the 
CityU–HKSTP Incubator Scheme housed in InnoCentre, next to our campus.
CityU’s research and professional education establishment in Shenzhen, Innovation Commons 
(Shenzhen) ( 香港城市大學創新創業中心 ( 深圳 ) ) was set up in 2018 to serve as another incubator for 
the technology startups of our students, staff members and alumni.
CityU signed a collaborative agreement with Changsha Municipal People’s Government in 2019 
to strengthen communication on collaboration between the two organisations, promote the 
establishment of the Changsha–Hong Kong–Macau Innovation Entrepreneurship Industrial Park, 
set up new research and technology organisations and enhance technology and knowledge 
transfer, while nurturing talent for innovation and entrepreneurship.Enlarge Capacity for Knowledge Transfer and Entrepreneurship
46
Enhance Good Governance and the CityU Brand
CityU installed Electric Vehicle Chargers on campus in 2016/17 in support of sustainability.
CityU Scholars, a research hub of excellence, was launched in 2017 to promote the awards of 
faculty members, facilitate reporting information to the government, enhance the efficiency of 
internal reporting, and eliminate duplication.
CityU launched the Staff Social Club in 2015, with over 9,000 hours of work-life balance and 
family-friendly activities conducted per annum.
Over 5,000 CityU alumni, students, staff and their families joined the “CityU Homecoming Gala 
cum Campus Run 2017”.
CityU cultivated a herb garden in the student residences and recycled usable household items at 
a mass donation to the needy in the vicinity via NGOs in 2017.
CityU implemented a one-off voluntary departure scheme, a new human resources model with 
some human resources operations delegated to academic units and a job rotation of eight 
senior administrative staff in 2018.
CityU has offered since 2018 a “Wellness For All” campaign, which plays an important role in 
promoting a healthy campus for the CityU community throughout the year with a series of 
competitions, exhibitions, workshops, talks and physical activities.
In 2018, CityU installed new Water Dispenser Systems to promote a no-bottled-water campus.
CityU has implemented a water conservation scheme since 2018 to recycle 2,176 cubic metres of 
grey water for irrigation per annum.
CityU launched the on-going “No Straw Campus @ CityU” campaign in 2019.
47
Appendix 2
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 
Formulation Process and 
Timeline
A working group was formed to coordinate the preparation of the 2020–2025 
strategic plan and the process to formulate the strategic plan started on 15 May 
2019, following its endorsement by senior management.
The first stage of consultation with senior officers in University Administration 
and some senior staff, based on a discussion guide, was held in May and June 
2019 with 13 meetings to collect their views in order to formulate the overall 
framework of the Strategic Plan. A retreat on strategic planning involving Council 
Members was held in July 2019. The second stage of consultation was held in 
August and September 2019 with 15 meetings to solicit input from Deans, Heads 
of academic and non-academic units, student and alumni representatives, donors/
supporters, and employers. To seek wider consultation among the University 
community, open invitations were sent to staff, students and alumni to invite 
their input through an online platform in October 2019. Details of meeting dates 
and formulation timeline are presented in Table A. Submissions from related 
offices were also collected during the consultation stage.
The Strategic Plan 2020–2025 was formulated on the basis of these consultations 
to guide the University’s development in the next five-year period, so as to realise 
its vision and mission and to excel in research and professional education.
48
May 2019 Working group formed and senior management endorsed the planning  
process for the strategic plan 2020–2025
Consultation (Stage 1) – Meetings with senior officers in University  
Administration and Council, and other staff
Provost and Associate Provosts 17 May 2019
President 20 May 2019
Vice-President (Student Affairs) 20 May 2019
Director of Student Development Services
Director of Student Residence Office
Vice-President (Administration) 21 May 2019
Chief Information Officer
Director of Campus Development
Director of Facilities Management
Director of Human Resources
Vice-President (Development and External Relations) 29 May 2019
Associate Vice-President (Development & Alumni Relations)
Vice-President (Research and Technology) 30 May 2019
Associate Dean (School of Graduate Studies)
Acting Director of Knowledge Transfer
Director of Research Grants & Contracts
Chief-of-Staff 30 May 2019
Director of Finance 11 June 2019
Deputy Director of Finance
Executive Director (Hong Kong Institute for Advanced Study)                           11 June 2019
Chief Information Officer 12 June 2019
Director of Computing Services
Director of Enterprise Solutions OfficeTable A: Meeting Dates and Formulation Timeline
May –
July 2019
49
Academicians and Visiting Professors 21 June 2019
Academicians 25 June 2019
Associate Provost (Institutional Initiatives) 26 June 2019
Director of Campus Development
(Strategic Planning Retreat) 31 July 2019
Council Chairman and Executive Committee of the Council
University Administration and senior staff
Consultation (Stage 2) – Meetings with Deans, Academic Heads, Non-academic Heads and  
other key stakeholders
College/School Deans and Academic Heads
Acting Dean and Heads, College of Business 27 August 2019
Dean and Heads, College of Engineering 10 September 2019
Dean and Heads, College of Science 10 September 2019
Acting Dean and Associate Dean, School of Data Science 10 September 2019
Dean and Associate Dean, School of Law 
Dean and Heads, College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences 11 September 2019
Acting Dean and Heads, Jockey Club College of Veterinary 13 September 2019
   Medicine and Life Sciences
Dean and Associate Dean, School of Creative Media 13 September 2019
Dean and Associate Deans, School of Energy and Environment
Non-academic Heads
Director of Academic Regulations and Records Office 9 September 2019
Director of Admissions Office
Director of Education Development and Gateway Education
Director of Global Engagement OfficeAugust –
September 2019
50
Director of Alumni Relations Office 9 September 2019
Acting Director of Communications and Public Relations
Director of Development Office
Acting Director of Knowledge Transfer
Director of School of Continuing and Professional Education
Director of CityU Press 10 September 2019
Head of In-House Legal Counsel
Director of Internal Audit
Acting Librarian
Director of Indra and Harry Banga Gallery (written submission)
Other Key Stakeholders
Former Dean of Students and postgraduate students 27 August 2019
Supporters and donors 9 September 2019
Dean of Students and undergraduate students 16 September 2019
Employers 16 September 2019
Convocation and alumni 18 September 2019
Consultation (Stage 3) – Campus-wide Online Consultation 
(to all staff, students and alumni)
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 Endorsed by senior management
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 Endorsed by Senate
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 Endorsed by the Executive Committee of the Council
Strategic Plan 2020–2025 Approved by the Council9-31 October 2019
30 December 2019
14 January 2020
16 March 2020
26 March 2020
51


