
1 Acknowledgement of Country 
The University of Sydney’s campuses and facilities sit on the 
ancestral lands of many of Australia’s First Peoples, who have for thousands of generations exchanged knowledge for the benefit of all. These include the Gadigal, Gamaraygal, Dharug, Wangal, Tharawal, Deerabbin, Darkinyung, Guringgai, Gamilaraay, Barkindji, Bundjalung, Wiradjuri, Wiljali, Ngunawal, Gureng Gureng and Gagudju Peoples. 
Respectfully acknowledging the ancient learning cultures and 
traditions of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, the University of Sydney declares its commitment to the continuation of this sharing through the agency of our work. There is no part of Australia where we work that has not been loved, nourished and cared for since the beginning of time. 
Rowena Welsh-Jarrett performs smoking ceremony 
2 3 Content s 
Leadership foreword 3 
Where we begin 6 
Our strategic aspirations  8 
Our aspirations for 2032 10 
Our student-focused education is transformational 12 
Our community thrives through diversity 15 
Our research is excellent, tackles the greatest challenges 
and contributes to the common good 16 
A better place to work, and a place that works better 18 
Where to next? 28 
Summary of our aspirations, strategies and outcomes 32 Leadership foreword 
On behalf of the University of Sydney Senate, we are delighted 
to present the University’s 2032 Strategy. 
This strategy sets out our vision of the future, but connects with 
our past and the commitment of our founders to excellence and public service. As we contemplate the approach of our 200th anniversary at the midpoint of this century, this strategy seeks to position the University of Sydney on a path to ensuring our work is truly world-class, and more important to society than at any other time in our history. Building on our achievements over the past decade, it is a long-horizon strategy focused on sustained and consistent excellence, with transformation at the core. 
We encapsulate our aspirations for the University by stating that 
“in 2032, the University of Sydney is known for the extraordinary power its world-class research and teaching has to transform people’s lives, and for the pride it generates throughout our city, our state and our nation.” Our aspirations are for excellence in everything we do, but with fairness in access to education and opportunity. Our aspirations are for how we work together as an organisation to realise our potential, and how we work in partnership on a local, national and global scale to deliver education and research that improves our world. 
As well as describing where we want to be, our 2032 Strategy 
also sets out what we will do to get there: our aspirations will be backed by action. A series of strategies underpin each aspiration, and these will focus our work across a series of three-year implementation periods in the next decade, providing regular opportunity for honest reflection on our progress as we move from one three-year period to the next. We know that this will be a challenging and demanding strategy to deliver, and we are operating in uncertain times. We will need to be fiscally responsible as an organisation to bring about substantial change. 
To succeed, we need to transform how we work together as 
a single university. We have started that work already, with development of this strategy being led by our University Executive – our most senior academic and professional staff leaders. We are very grateful to the executive for the time they have devoted to this task, and to their commitment to working together. We would also like to thank the hundreds and thousands of staff, students and others who contributed their views and aspirations – for showing both their pride in the University and their determination to help us succeed. We look forward to taking forward this spirit as we start to implement our 2032 Strategy. We have much to do. 
Belinda Hutchinson AC 
Chancel lor 
Professor Mark Scott AO Vice-Chancellor and President 
4 5 
Robert Andrew, Garabar a, 2018 
Social Sciences Building, Camperdown Campus 
6 7 
Where we begin 
We have developed this strategy in highly challenging times – times of geopolitical, 
environmental and economic crisis. This strategy channels our sense of responsibility to contribute to a better world, building on our past decade of significant change and challenges. 
As we look to the next decade, we want our work to be more 
compelling, and more important to society, than at any other time in our history. 
The past decade has seen much positive change within 
the University. We reformed our undergraduate education, developed new mechanisms for multidisciplinary collaboration and invested in much-needed research facilities. We committed to a stronger and more accountable partnership with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, increased our focus on diversity and inclusion, and saw our efforts recognised through the results of a sector-leading philanthropic campaign. We continued to nurture top-class graduates, equipped with leadership qualities to serve their communities. Yet, despite these advances, and many more besides, we concluded our 2016–20 strategy knowing that more needs to be done. 
As we look forward, we know that our research performance 
is not where we want it to be, and that our student satisfaction rates lag other universities. We know our student and staff communities still do not sufficiently reflect broader society – especially for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, those who are first in family and those students from a low socioeconomic background. We know that our comprehensiveness as an institution is a virtue but can also make us complex to navigate – for our staff and students, our community and for external partners. We know that we share challenges with our peers: Australia’s higher education funding model remains unsustainable, public funding for research has fallen in real terms, and government policies and expectations do not always align with supporting and sustaining world-class research and teaching. 
In looking beyond our sector, the external outlook could hardly 
be more confronting. 
Climate change increasingly wreaks havoc around the world. 
At home, on the east coast of Australia, recent incessant rain and floods have followed past summers of drought and fire. The existence of our Pacific neighbours is threatened by rising waters, and the consequences of a changed climate play out in equally damaging ways further afield: record-breaking heat, food shortages and melting glaciers. 
The COVID-19 pandemic seems a constant, with countless lives 
cut short or deeply changed, and with deep scars on mental health. Already-high levels of debt are rising, and inflation is hitting levels barely seen in a generation. There is war in Europe, with resultant trade sanctions and waves of refugees. Geopolitical tensions are increasing in other   
regions, including our own. Inequality is on the rise globally.   
As a nation we have not done nearly enough to close the   
gap between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples   
and non-Indigenous Australians. 
This is the world we have contemplated in developing this 
strategy, fully aware that further change and disruption awaits – but also aware of the enduring and stabilising role of universities in times such as these. 
Despite the bleak outlook, the work of our academics – and 
colleagues across the world – has come to the fore in recent times. Dramatic breakthroughs in medicine, technology and science give us hope that we can rise to any challenge. Equally, the resilience and dedication of our students and staff has been inspirational. 
We must strive to ensure today’s challenges are not passed 
on to future generations, and we know from our past that universities have a critical role in socially challenging times. As Australia’s first university, we were founded in the mid-nineteenth century with strong commitments to excellence and public service. Those commitments will continue to guide us through the next decade to 2032, the 180th anniversary of our inauguration. 
Under this strategy we will pursue aspirations focused on 
delivering sustained and consistent excellence, and developing the flexibility and resilience to keep pace with – or ahead of – the changes we will inevitably experience in an increasingly fluid and unpredictable world. These aspirations, described in the following section, all align to our most important wayfinder for the next decade: our strategic vision for 2032. 
Building on the First Nations knowledge of these lands, we are Australia’s first university, Sydney’s university and a great global university. 
In setting this vision, we recognise our obligations to the First Nations peoples of this land: to honour more than 60,000 years of knowledge creation and how it informs what we study and how we work today, and to contribute to and support the development of this knowledge in years to come and ensure that it is accessible to all. Recognising and valuing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander knowledges is what is needed for us all to belong here now, no matter how or when we came. 
In this way, and in tandem with our city, the University of Sydney 
is a place that deeply understands, connects, leverages and is itself a product of the intersection of cultures: Indigenous and non-Indigenous, East and West, North and South. With this recognition, we can shape and steer both Sydney’s role in Australia and Australia’s role in the region and the world. 
We will do so with confidence and ambition. We acknowledge 
we have work to do, and that we must work in culturally responsive ways. In developing our strategy, we have engaged and thought deeply about how Sydney can be a university where all can thrive and excel. 
Early morning over the city from the Quadrangle, Camperdown Campus 
8 9 
Our strategic 
aspiration s 
Sunrise through the New Law Building, Camperdown Campus 
10 11 Our aspirations for 2032 
When people speak about the University of Sydney in 2032, what will they say? 
What will we be known for? 
In 2032, the University of Sydney is known for the extraordinary 
power its world-class research and teaching has to transform people’s lives, and for the pride it generates throughout our city, our state and our nation. 
We have made a virtue of our scale, drawing on the breadth 
of our disciplines and the strength of our deep disciplinary expertise to deliver teaching and research of influence. Our students graduate with the skills and knowledge to adapt and thrive in a changing world; our researchers discover new truths and address society’s great challenges. Our work improves the wellbeing of our community no matter where they are. 
We benchmark our research and teaching against the best 
in the world and demonstrate outstanding capability in working together. We are renowned for addressing the biggest challenges facing the planet, including how we draw on our traditional strengths in the humanities and social sciences to explore and explain the profound social, economic and cultural implications of these challenges. How do we live sustainably in a rapidly growing world threatened by climate change? How do we harness the power of artificial intelligence for good? How do we prepare leaders to unite, rather than divide, society? How do we tackle inequality in all its forms? 
Our campuses are on lands that are home to the oldest 
continuous cultures in the world, and we celebrate this culture and its centrality to our work and study. Through our shared responsibilities to these lands, we have created a genuine sense of belonging among all students and staff. Having implemented our existing Sustainability and One Sydney, Many People strategies in the first half of the decade, we have deepened our commitment to embedding sustainability and caring for Country in all we do, working with First Nations knowledge and history for a future that is better, and more just. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students and staff want to join us, and they thrive as part of our University. 
There is no better place than Sydney for the most capable 
students, no matter where they come from. Our campuses are alive with students from different cultures and different countries, with different experiences and different ambitions. They benefit from studying in a large and comprehensive university, and we ensure they feel connected and supported throughout their study: students know the whole University community is invested in their success. We give our students the skills, knowledge, mindsets and worldview to serve and advance their own communities, the region and the world. They value that we are an Australian university that offers a uniquely Australian experience. 
As they progress through their time with us, their teachers 
become their mentors and learning partners. Graduation is just a milestone in their relationship with us. We are renowned for the continuing relationships we develop with our alumni, in how we support them and in how we enable them to give back and provide support for the next generation of students. Sydney is also the partner of choice for other universities, research institutions, donors, our alumni, government and industry. We are known as supportive and good to do business with, committed to helping others to achieve great things in partnership with us. 
The University of Sydney is a great place to work, where 
careers flourish. We invest in the success of our people, with excellent mentoring and innovative staff support programs. Our staff are highly collegial, valuing a shared culture of trust and accountability that motivates us all to lift our performance. Our administrative and support systems are the best there is, allowing frictionless support for both staff and students. There are no divisions between professional and academic staff, between the centre and faculties, or between faculties. We are one University, not a collection of organisational units. 
These aspirations have been hard won and are underpinned 
by some important attributes. We are known for making tough decisions, shrewd investments and prioritising well. We are dynamic, implement complex change effectively, and anticipate and respond to changes in our operating environment and broader society. We celebrate the power of teams – in our teaching, in our research community, and across our professional support communities – because we know that highly effective, top-quality teamwork helps us deliver to the highest standards. 
Our commitment to our shared mission drives a strong sense of 
unity across the University: we work together to bring our energy and focus to the value our work can provide for the world. 
Strateg y 2032 Sydney in 
OUR ASPIRATIONS 
Building on the First Nations knowledge of these lands, 
we are Australia’s first university, Sydney’s university 
and a great global university 
Our student-focused 
education is 
transformation al Our community 
thrives through 
diversit y Our research is 
excellent, tackles the 
greatest challenges 
and contributes to the 
common good 
A better place to work, and a place that works better 
Wherever we 
gather, we do 
our best work We lead with high 
trust and high 
accountabilit y 
to deliver high 
performanc e Our policies, 
processes, systems 
and services 
help us achieve 
our ambitions We are valued 
as outstanding 
partner s 

12 13 Our student-focused education 
is transformational 
We will be the best Australian university for teaching and learning. Our students 
will attest to the transformational impact a Sydney education has on their lives, whenever and wherever they learn. 
Every Sydney student – from school leavers seeking their first 
professional job to those seeking targeted learning opportunities throughout their career – will know the whole University community is invested in their success. 
All our learners will forge deep connections to their studies 
and leverage the opportunities we offer: our vibrancy, our unsurpassed links to international and domestic partners, our award-winning academics, our technological innovation, our educational offerings in digital domains, and our support – in person and online. Our staff will be our students’ role models and guides, and their graduation will not be a point of departure from the University but a milestone in a lifelong partnership in learning. 
To succeed, we will undertake our own transformational journey 
as a learning organisation. We will consider not only how we teach but also what, when and where. 
We will be driven by the ‘why’: Sydney graduates are critical 
in helping to deliver a highly educated workforce, upon which national wellbeing depends. We will develop our education offerings in Western Sydney, providing new opportunities for skills development that progress our existing strategy to build a greater presence in this vibrant, diverse area at the heart of our city. 
To drive a transformational experience, we will improve how 
we learn from data and insights from our students, staff and partners to ensure teaching contributes more effectively to desired learning outcomes. We will respond quickly to what we discover, so that we are more strategic in identifying – and learning from – excellent teaching practices. These insights will inform how we continuously improve our systems, timetabling, teaching, assessment and support, and ensure both that our current curricula are sustainable and that we are responsive to emerging areas of study. By doing this, we will meet the needs of our learners, and offer employers – and society more broadly – graduates driven by a sense of civic responsibility and ready to succeed in the field of their choice. Better insights will also shape how we harness new technology and digital transformation to reinvigorate existing courses and dynamically develop new ones, including short-form options so that we deliver the best learning in person and online. 
Underpinned by our new Academic Excellence Framework, 
we will be committed to a shared belief that excellence in teaching is as critical as excellence in research. We will define and reward excellence at every career stage, embracing peer review, and encouraging innovation. We will invest in more teaching and learning support staff, and support them with professional development grounded in the best research on learning. 
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Define, support and reward excellence and evidence-based 
innovation for individual teachers and teaching teams. 
— Better understand our students by leveraging academic 
research, data and insights to drive an educational experience that is transformational for our learners and sustainable for the institution. 
— Make partnership key to our education offerings. — Become an in-demand provider of dynamic lifelong learning. 
What will succe ss 
look like? Our teachers meet academic excellence expectations at every career stage, and we celebrate their achievements as visibly as high performance in research. We partner to create highly valued and respected lifelong learning opportunities in response to society’s changing need s. Our curricula are both learner-focus ed 
and sustainable. Regardless of where and how they learn, our students are confident in their abilities, sure of their personal goals, and feel that they belong. 
A student in the School of Architecture, Design and Planning 
14 15 
Our community thrives 
through diversity 
Social equity is at the heart of our past and our future. By 2032 our community will be 
more diverse and inclusive, helping us all to shape a positive future. 
If we genuinely aspire to be a world-leading university, we must 
reflect the communities around us. We want our student and staff community to be rich in life experiences and diverse in terms of age, ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexuality, disability, and other sociocultural coordinates. 
We will pursue this aspiration not only because it is the right 
thing to do but also because we know that equity, diversity and inclusion make the University experience better for us all, enriching how we contribute to society through our education and research. We are determined to play our part in overcoming the educational disadvantage that exists in society. 
Our first focus will be our domestic undergraduate cohort. We 
will ensure that this is a university open to students who have not had the same advantages as others throughout their schooling and their life. We have made some recent progress here – for example, through our Gadigal Program for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students - but under this strategy we will do better through an immediate program of investment for a broader group. 
We commit to greater packages of support for students from 
disadvantaged backgrounds. This support will be holistic, beginning before students join us and enduring throughout their candidature. Scholarships to cover tuition fees and costs of living, accommodation, dedicated learning and careers advice, mentoring and network-building will be key features. 
We will also increase the diversity of our staff. A staff 
community that reflects the communities we represent, and that values and is responsive to different perspectives, experiences and ideas, will directly support our broader aspirations under this strategy. It will help us make better decisions. It will provide role models for our students and broader society. It will enable higher-performing research and teaching teams. By ensuring our academic and teaching-support staff are highly skilled in inclusive teaching practices, we will be better equipped to support students on their learning journeys. All our people will feel a greater sense of belonging, be more in control of their careers and better able to realise their ambitions. 
We will be recognised as being an inclusive place where the 
most talented people want to work because they know they can thrive here. We will set targets to help us achieve these goals and monitor our progress.   
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Commit to pathways that ensure a greater diversity   
of students succeed at Sydney. 
— Increase the diversity of our staff, and our shared 
appreciation of how diversity improves all we do. 
— Reaffirm our commitment to equity, diversity   
and inclusion throughout the University. 
What will succe ss 
look like? We embrace equity, diversity and inclusion as core to our success, and our students and staff reflect the communities we serve. We demonstrate our ability to identify and support a full range of students from diverse backgrounds to flourish at the University. 
Students at University of Sydney during Welcome Week 
16 17 Our research is excellent, tackles the greatest 
challenges and contributes to the common good 
By 2032, our diverse and inclusive academic community will be renowned globally for 
discovering new knowledge and delivering solutions that benefit us all. 
Our role is to foster a research ecosystem that empowers 
our researchers to excel. We will support and encourage outstanding people who are rigorous in their scholarship, have disciplinary authority and a breadth of vision. Our people will take risks and innovate, be passionate about their subject and influence the world around them through their engagement within the University and beyond. 
We will be loud in our support for the full research pipeline, from 
‘blue-sky’ scholarship to research that has a clearer pathway to translation and application – pursued by the innovators who want to bring their ideas to life in the marketplace, in public policy, in the health system, or elsewhere. 
We will change how we work to realise this aspiration. 
As one of the world’s most comprehensive universities, we will create scale, focus and impact over a range of time frames. We will quickly assemble teams to respond with agility to acute disasters such as bushfires and floods, and cultivate a long-term vision to build foundations for the deep-rooted transformation required to tackle challenges such as the climate crisis and chronic disease. 
To improve our global standing and performance, an Academic 
Excellence Framework will define our expectations with reference to external disciplinary benchmarks, recognising both traditional research metrics and commercially oriented markers such as patent filings and startups. We will integrate engagement and impact into all research programs, and allocate discretionary funding to research areas, pure and applied, with a track record of excellence as well as those on the cusp of breakthroughs. 
By 2032, we will have fostered multiple cohorts of outstanding 
and innovative researchers and research leaders who collectively have raised the international standing of the University. Academics at all stages of their career will want to work with us, attracted by our world-class research infrastructure, our inclusive culture and our environmentally sustainable research practices. 
Our commitment will start early, with an exemplary supervisory 
environment for higher degree by research (HDR) students that sets them up for their career, be it in industry, the public sector, or academia, and targeted programs to develop early- and mid-career researchers. We will improve how we bring together multidisciplinary teams of different sizes. Some of these may evolve into new multidisciplinary institutes; others will be seeded so they can grow to leverage external funding. 
Our commitment to the Sydney Biomedical Accelerator 
(SBA) exemplifies this aspiration, investing in our potential to be a global leader in biomedical research. Embedding a multidisciplinary approach, the SBA will amplify our commitment to translation and commercialisation, and focus on developing research leaders, partnering on solutions to the most complex global health challenges, and building a research community focused on excellence.   
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Foster a culture where our HDR students and academics can 
excel, engage and have impact. 
— Define expectations for performance and innovation through 
an Academic Excellence Framework, and support and reward excellence for individuals and teams. 
— Focus investment on research with an excellent track record   
or the strongest potential to deliver excellence. 
— Leverage our comprehensiveness and partnerships to drive 
multidisciplinary problem solving.   
What will succe ss 
look like? Our diverse research community meets clearly defined academic excellence expectations at every career stage. Our excellence is evident in the national and global reach of our research partnerships, the diversity and scale of our funding support, and the translation of our research outputs into measurable benefit for society. 
Heart tissue bank at the Charles Perkins Centre 
18 19
A better place to work, 
and a place that works better 
View from Susan Wakil Health Building, Camperdown Campus, 
towards Wesley College 
20 21 
Wherever we gather,  we do our best work 
By 2032, we will attract the best people and enable them to flourish. Our shared ambitions 
will mean the very best research and education happens on all our campuses, through our international connections, and in increasingly digital domains. 
We will create an environment that is collegial and 
collaborative, a place that enables high levels of individual and collective performance, and one that supports the development of successful and rewarding careers for all our people. 
This shift is critical to our broader vision and will require us to 
think differently. Our recruitment processes will be proactive and contemporary, recognising the importance of our decisions at the point of selection, so that we benefit both from high-calibre and diverse appointments, knowing that those who join us will go on to contribute to the University in lasting and meaningful ways. We will ensure that we have the right people in the right positions, and support them to build their careers in a complex higher education and research landscape so that they can excel in the work they have been trained to do. 
Opportunities for career development will be a feature of 
working at the University of Sydney. We are a learning institution and will therefore value continual learning and development for our staff as well as our students, and create a culture of high performance based on self-reflection, informed feedback and transparency. We will forge a culture of strong mentorship and collaboration that supports individuals to thrive, and champion the importance of teamwork in achieving our shared goals. 
Our people will recognise and celebrate this collaborative 
and high-performance environment wherever they are – Camperdown or Westmead, Camden or Lismore, the Conservatorium or Broken Hill, on our campuses, collaborating internationally, or online. 
In all these places, our staff and students will move seamlessly 
between the physical and the digital as we embrace hybrid ways of learning and working. We will be mindful of how we respond to an increasingly digitised learning and working environment, ensuring our technology also brings people closer together even when we work physically apart. 
We will build on what we have learned through the COVID-19 
pandemic and the opportunities of working and studying in a variety of modes. Our physical and digital environments will cultivate the sense of connection and belonging to the University community that our staff and students want, and they must enable integration and joint efforts with our partners and communities. 
Our physical campuses will remain central to the University of 
Sydney experience. We will recognise that we are hosted on lands that are home to the oldest continuous cultures in the world, and our cherished lands and historic and contemporary buildings will remain a strength that is core to how our students, staff, local communities and partners experience the University. They will be places where people want to gather, to stay, and to care for Country. 
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Transform the experience of working at the University   
of Sydney through a shared focus on excellence in how   
we attract and invest in our people. 
— Ensure our places – current and future, physical   
and digital – are inviting to all and enable success.   
What will succe ss 
look like? We attract the most talented academic and professional staff and provide an environment where they can flourish. Wherever our people gather, our inclusive culture and digital and physical spaces enable excellence and are inviting to all. 
Westmead Fertility Centre 
22 23 We lead with high trust and high accountability 
to deliver high performance 
To deliver on our ambitious goals for education and research, we will need strong and trusted 
relationships across all parts of the University. 
By 2032, we will hold ourselves to high standards not just 
for our academic work, or our work across our professional services, but also for how we work together. Organisational structures will not constitute barriers between professional and academic staff, or between colleagues in different organisational units. We will respect each other’s roles, expertise and professional fields. Roles and responsibilities will be clear and understood, and information will be shared widely and effectively. 
Building on this culture of trust, we will support our staff 
to make decisions at the appropriate level of the University, removing unnecessary bureaucracy that slows us down. The crisis conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic have demonstrated the value of distributed leadership and expertise, and of responding quickly to challenges and opportunities. We do not want to lose this. 
Despite our complexity, we will understand that we are 
members of a single institution with shared objectives and aspirations. Consistently demonstrating support for trust and accountability will make us more generous colleagues: we will trust each other to deliver effectively and feel trusted to do our own work. 
We will expect our leaders at all levels to welcome feedback 
– and to be responsive to it. We will seek and value external benchmarking and peer review. We will feel safe and supported to speak up when we feel that systems and processes are not performing as they should. It will be expected to share ideas about different approaches, and to openly learn from mistakes. This culture will encourage us all to continuously improve, no matter which part of the University we work in; it is therefore key to our overall aspirations for high performance. An early focus for our implementation will be to discuss the values we need to have at our core to deliver on the aspirations in this strategy. 
Strong leadership capability that inspires and reinforces our 
ambition and values has a critical role here, notably as an exemplar for how a culture of high trust and high accountability enables high performance. An early focus will be on reinvigorating how we prepare academic and professional staff for senior positions, and supporting them in how they develop their leadership skills as they progress through their careers.   
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Place trust and accountability at the heart of our values. — Agree and embed the hallmark attributes of leadership   
in the Sydney context. 
— Streamline and devolve decision making, ensure accountability 
and effective governance, and cut red tape. 
What will succe ss 
look like? We are highly collegial and respectful, and we value our culture of trust and accountability . We make decisions at the right level, we value peer review and transparency, and we act on what we learn from past decisions. Our leaders at all levels feel supported, empowered and equipped to build high-performing teams and make good decisions. 
A performance at the Conservatorium of Music 
24 25 
Our policies, processes, systems and services 
help us achieve our ambitions 
By 2032, we will have cut the complexity of our organisation so that our policies, processes, 
systems and services support us well. The effectiveness – and excellence – of our research, teaching, learning and the student experience will be front of mind. 
We will make sure different parts of the University work together 
seamlessly to respond to the needs of our researchers, teachers and students. User experience, not organisational structure, will direct our approach. 
Our students, teachers, researchers, professional staff and 
partners will have a frictionless experience of systems and technology so they can focus on their core priorities. Our students and staff will be engaged and heard throughout the process of updating existing systems and services, and introducing new ones. 
This will require us to change how we currently work so that 
we take an active partnership approach to our institutional operations, involving and listening to the right people at the right time. While our size and scale makes us complex and subject to external requirements, we will strive to ensure our solutions are as user-friendly as possible. 
To succeed, we will act to get the basics right. We will 
systematically review current policies, processes, systems and services to ensure they meet this aspiration. Recognising the increasing speed of digitalisation, we will support, train and invest in the digital capabilities of our staff. And to inform continual improvement, we will bring better structure and purpose to the data we have, improve data gaps, and lift our ability to understand, contextualise and act on data insights, both qualitative and quantitative. 
These actions will enable us to respond to as-yet-unknown 
disruptions and stay vigilant to the fact that students will increasingly have more choice in a digitally enabled world. We will respond to a desire from students for a more personalised experience and the ability to have greater agency in how they learn. Their input will be critical in the design of our digital futures, both in the learning experience and in service provision. 
OUR STRATEGIES 
— Place student and staff needs first when designing   
policies, processes, systems, and services that reflect   
and embed our values. 
— Deliver transformational change that is user-centred, 
insight-driven, pragmatic and clearly understood. 
— Embrace simplicity, benchmarking and rich data insights   
to assure continual improvement in the way we work   
and provide services. 
What will succe ss 
look like? Our staff, students and partners attest that our policies, processes, systems and services support them to do their best work. Our people feel their experience and insights are valued when we update or introduce new policies, processes, systems or services. 
Learning space, Engineering Building, Camperdown Campus 
26 27 We are valued as 
outstanding partners 
The most complex problems require partnership to deliver solutions. By 2032, 
we will be consistently great partners, and people will seek us out as a partner of choice in our local, national and international communities. 
This aspiration will be driven by a shared belief across the 
University that by working with our partners and communities we are all stronger, and the impact and influence of our research and teaching is greater. 
We will go out of our way to resolve issues that stand in the 
way of creating and sustaining effective partnerships. We will value and reward the ability to nurture strong, enduring partnerships across our community. While these relationships will change over time, we will invest in the skills and knowledge of our staff, so that we ensure a consistently positive partnership experience. 
Our partners will be diverse in their size, their objectives 
and their expectations. Embracing this diversity, we will work with each of them to create a shared understanding of what a successful partnership looks like – whether they be a multinational company, a public organisation, a donor, one of our alumni, or a local community group. All our partners will feel welcome, and we will celebrate with them the positive impact of our collaboration. 
They – and the broader community – will acknowledge, 
understand and value our work. Our reputation as an excellent collaborator will help decision-makers to understand and respect our contribution to society. 
To deliver, we will invest more time and attention into personal 
interactions with our current and potential partners, and in the systems that support our people to be great partners. This will enable us to respond more quickly to change and opportunity brought about by digital disruption, or new funding opportunities to meet government priorities. OUR STRATEGIES 
— Create a culture that values how partnering improves   
the quality and impact of our teaching and research. 
— Deliver on our partnership promises. — Build new and enduring partnerships to realise   
shared goals. 
What will succe ss 
look like? Organisations and individuals want to work with us, advocate for and fund our work, and testify that we are a partner of choice due to the quality of our work, our openness to new ideas and the mutually beneficial nature of our partnerships. The ability to create enduring partnerships is valued and rewarded across our community, and we regard partnerships as vital to our long-term success. 
Koala research in Gunnedah 
28 29 
Where to next? 
Sunset over the Quadrangle, Camperdown Campus 
30 31 
Where to next? 
Now that we have established where we want to be in 2032 – what we aspire to be 
known for – our focus turns to how we will get there. This is the moment for us to come together as a University community to develop and commit to an integrated action plan to deliver on this strategy. 
We will implement this plan across three successive three-year 
periods, with clear performance review points. In each period we will commit to particular projects and initiatives to progress the strategies we have identified. At the end of each period we will undertake an honest review of progress towards our aspirations, and reset for another three-year period. The work now begins to plan the first of these three-year periods so that we can start to deliver this strategy with energy and urgency. We will more than double our scholarship support 
for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
We will expand our education offerings in Western 
Sydney, providing new opportunities for skills development that progress our commitment to build a greater presence in this vibrant, diverse   
area at the heart of our city. 
We will create the Sydney Biomedical Accelerator. 
We will be a global leader in biomedical research,   
a place that attracts excellence and one that drives a new approach to research translation across   
the University. 
We will establish a Leadership Academy to support 
our emerging and future leaders. Reflection of the Quadrangle in the windows of the 
Chau Chak Wing Museum, Camperdown Campus 
32 33 Summary of our   
aspirations, strategies and outcomes 
ASPIRA TIONS STRATEGIE S OUTCOME S 
Our student-
focused education is transformationa l — 
— 
— 
— Define, support and reward excellence   
and evidence-based innovation for individual 
teachers and teaching teams. Better understand our students by   
leveraging academic research, data and insights to drive an educational experience that is transformational for our learners and sustainable for the institution. Make partnership key to our education offering s. 
Become an in-demand provider   
of dynamic lifelong learning. — 
— 
— 
— Our teachers meet academic excellence 
expectations at every career stage, and   
we celebrate their achievements as visibly   
as high performance in research. We partner to create highly valued and   
respected lifelong learning opportunities   
in response to society’s changing needs. Our curricula are both learner-focused   
and sustainable. Regardless of where and how they learn, our students are confident in their abilities, sure of their personal goals, and feel that they belong. 
Our community thrives through diversit y — 
— 
— Commit to pathways that ensure a greater 
diversity of students succeed at Sydney. Increase the diversity of our staff, and our shared appreciation of how diversity improves all we do. Reaffirm our commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion throughout the University. — 
— We embrace equity, diversity and inclusion as 
core to our success, and our students and staff reflect the communities we serve. We demonstrate our ability to identify and support a full range of students from diverse backgrounds to flourish at the University. 
Our research is excellent, tackles the greatest challenges and contributes to the common good — 
— 
— 
— Foster a culture where our HDR students   
and academics can excel, engage and   
have impact. 
Define expectations for performance and innovation through an Academic Excellence Framework, and support and reward excellence for individuals and teams. Focus investment on research with an   
excellent track record or the strongest   
potential to deliver excellence. Leverage our comprehensiveness and partnerships to drive multidisciplinary   
problem solving. — 
— Our diverse research community meets   
clearly defined academic excellence expectations 
at every career stage. Our excellence is evident in the national   
and global reach of our research partnerships, the diversity and scale of our funding support, and the translation of our research outputs   
into measurable benefit for society. ASPIRA TIONS STRATEGIE S OUTCOME S 
Wherever we gather, we do our best work — 
— Transform the experience of working at the 
University of Sydney through a shared focus on excellence in how we attract and invest in our people. Ensure our places – current and future, physical and digital – are inviting to all and enable success. — 
— We attract the most talented academic and 
professional staff and provide an environment where they can flourish. Wherever our people gather, our inclusive culture and digital and physical spaces enable excellence and are inviting to all. 
We lead with high trust and high accountabilit y 
to deliver high performanc e — 
— — Place trust and accountability at the   
heart of our values. 
Agree and embed the hallmark attributes   
of leadership in the Sydney context. Streamline and devolve decision making,   
ensure accountability and effective governance, and cut red tape. — 
— 
— We are highly collegial and respectful, and we   
value our culture of trust and accountability. 
We make decisions at the right level, we   
value peer review and transparency, and   
we act on what we learn from past decisions. Our leaders at all levels feel supported, empowered and equipped to build high-performing teams and make good decisions. 
Our policies, processes, systems and services help us achieve our ambitions — 
— — Place student and staff needs first when 
designing policies, processes, systems, and services that reflect and embed our values. Deliver transformational change that is   
user-centred, insight-driven, pragmatic   
and clearly understood. Embrace simplicity, benchmarking and rich data insights to assure continual improvement in the way we work and provide services. — 
— Our staff, students and partners attest that   
our policies, processes, systems and services 
support them to do their best work. Our people feel their experience and insights are valued when we update or introduce new policies, processes, systems or services. 
We are valued as outstanding partners — 
— 
— Create a culture that values how partnering improves the quality and impact of our teaching and research. Deliver on our partnership promises. Build new and enduring partnerships   
to realise shared goals. — 
— Organisations and individuals want to work with us, 
advocate for and fund our work, and testify that we are a partner of choice due to the quality of our work, our openness to new ideas and the mutually beneficial nature of our partnerships. The ability to create enduring partnerships is valued and rewarded across our community,   
and we regard partnerships as vital to our   
long-term success. 
34 35 
As we look to the next decade, 
we want our work to be more compelling, and more important to society, than at any other time in our history. 
Evening sky reflected in the Social Sciences Building, 
Camperdown Campus 
36 37 Contact us 
strategy2032@sydney.edu. au 
sydney.edu.au/strateg y 
Produced by Marketing and Communications, the University of Sydney, 
August 2022. The University reserves the right to make alterations to any information contained within this publication without notice. 
22/9007   CRICOS 00026A 
Front cover Left to Right 
01 Jody Webster 
02 Budiman Minasny 
03   Katrina Liberiou 
04 Lynette Riley 
05   Olivia Wellesley-Cole 
06 Ramon Shaban 
07 Kirsty McCahon 
08 Manjula Sharma 
09   Brigid White 
10   Madhullikaa Singh 
11   David Hensher 
12  Dinuka Perara and family 
13 Jioji Ravulo 
14    Renee Tighe 
15 Caroline Boateng 
16 Madeleine Beekman Back cover Left to Right 
17  Geraint Lewis 
18    Jessica Pattison 
19 Jonathan Evans 
20  Angela Pattison 
21   Nathan Schrieber 
22    Yuanming Wang (L) and Tara Murphy (R) 
23    Michael Bowen 
24  Edwina Tu and Snowy 
25    Amy Johansen 
26     Daniel Kim 
27    Adam Goodes 
28   Colin Sullivan 
29    Lila Ram 
30    Kelly Robson 
31 Brent Kaiser 
32 Padiashaikhet The many faces of our community 
38 

