42

2
103
14
286
18
24
32
36 Foreword by  
Council Chairman
Education:  
Meeting the Challenges  
of Tomorrow 
Global Engagement:  
Spreading our Wings to  
Add Value and Create Impact  Foreword by  
Vice-Chancellor and President
  Student Experience:  
Nurturing Excellence of  
Both Heart and Mind
Talent Attraction and DevelopmentIntroducing  
‘CUHK 2025’
 From Discovery to Innovation:  
Research Excellence with  Purpose and Responsibility
Alumni Engagement and  
Institutional Advancement
Embracing Social Responsibility  
for Sustainable DevelopmentT able of Contents
For 58 years, The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
(CUHK) has been a powerful force in both the local and international higher education sectors. We have always been guided by our mission to assist in the preservation, creation, application and dissemination of knowledge to serve the well-being of the citizens of Hong Kong, China and beyond. We aspire to become a first-class comprehensive research university whose scholarly output and contributions to the community meet the highest standards of excellence. And I am glad to note that CUHK is ranked 7th in Asia by the Times Higher Education (THE) Rankings and 39th in the world by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings. It is ranked third in ShanghaiRanking’s Ranking of Top Universities in Greater China, and came up first among Hong Kong’s universities. All this is a fine tribute to the members of the University community who have turned this institution into one of Asia’s—and the world’s—finest. 
But there is no room for complacency. To keep the 
momentum going, we have prepared and implemented strategic plans that aim to steer us through the challenges of a fast-changing world, set forth new goals for tomorrow’s young leaders and chart new directions in the areas of teaching, research and knowledge transfer.
I am delighted to report that all of our strategic plans 
have served us well and laid a firm foundation for our 
Foreword by Council Chairman
development through the years. A strategic plan is more 
than a wish list; it includes an in-depth analysis of our opportunities and strengths and offers ways to leverage these to meet future challenges and thus benefit our students, staff, alumni, donors, supporters and other stakeholders. A strategic plan outlines our shared goals and the actions required to realize them. In summary, it contains the guidelines that will take us to a higher plane.
The Strategic Plan 2021–2025 (‘CUHK 2025’) is a good 
example of such an action plan. This comprehensive and insightful new plan sets forth new directions in key areas of the University’s development over the next five years. During this period, we must continue to navigate through challenges and realize our visions of a better tomorrow. Although we do not underestimate the difficulty involved, we earnestly cherish the opportunity to take the University to new heights.
I would like to thank all those who have played their 
part in the preparation of ‘CUHK 2025’: Prof. Rocky Tuan, Vice-Chancellor and President, for his insights and leadership; Prof. Alan Chan, Provost, for his stewardship and careful craftsmanship; and the Chairpersons and Members of the seven sub-groups of the key areas for their hard work and tireless collaboration. Of course, this thank-you list would not be complete without my giving a vote of thanks to the staff and faculty members, students, alumni, donors, supporters and other stakeholders of the University who have lent their expertise and advice to make ‘CUHK 2025’ possible.
I therefore present this Strategic Plan to all of you who 
take an interest in the progress of this University. You can also contribute to this roadmap to further success by participating in or supporting our initiatives. Thank you.
Dr. Norman Leung Nai-pang   
Council Chairman
2
Foreword by Vice-Chancellor and President
I am proud and pleased to present to you the new five-
year Strategic Plan of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) for the 2021–2025 period, after extensive consultations with University stakeholders. Building on the strong foundation laid by the preceding Strategic Plan with many rising challenges and opportunities identified, ‘CUHK 2025’ charts out a refined roadmap that will guide us further to fulfill our vision and ambitions as we carry out the role of a civic university that contributes to Hong Kong, our country, the region and the rest of the world, and lead us to achieve ‘Excellence with Purpose and Responsibility’.
‘CUHK 2025’ was drafted amidst the aftermath of 
the social unrest that rocked Hong Kong in 2019 and the throes of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic doldrums in 2020. While there is no silver bullet or magic wand to fix all the complex challenges, problems and pains that the University is facing, we hold the faith that ‘when the going gets tough, the tough gets going’, as much as we hold dear our founding mission, vision 
and shared values   that ha ve guided CUHK through for 
over half a century. This Strategic Plan was deliberated and drafted in a positive spirit that believes in and endeavours to achieve a better tomorrow.
Recent challenges have illustrated the significant roles 
of universities, as institutions of higher learning and knowledge, for the incubation of actionable knowledge, the nurturing of global citizens with civic-mindedness and compassion for sustainable development, as well as the championing of innovation and international cooperation. ‘CUHK 2025’ reflects our commitment in: (1) delivering education that fosters whole-person development; (2) providing student experience that widens students' horizons; (3) undertaking research and innovation that create social impact; (4) fostering global engagement that brings the world to the University and the University to the world; (5) nurturing human capital
 that values   ing enuity and diversity; (6) 
strengthening alumni engagement and institutional 
advancement that promote the future growth of the University; and (7) fulfilling social responsibility and supporting sustainable development that actualize CUHK
’s ethos. These seven areas cover a wide spectrum 
of university life, and each area is precisely designed to achieve specific goals conducive to the long-term and sustainable growth of the University, as well as the well-being of mankind. In fact, our motto, ‘Through learning and temperance to virtue’, precisely echoes the equal importance we attach to academic excellence and civic responsibility.
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all the 
faculty, staff, alumni, students, members of the Council, donors and supporters, and other stakeholders, who have pitched in to make a difference. Their unstinting support and continued contributions are essential to making this Strategic Plan a viable and synergistic project as we look to scale new heights. The success of the plan depends on the spirit of unity that we share. I am sure that, by all of us acting collaboratively and synergistically, the coming five years will be productive and fruitful and will lay the foundation for further growth. While we will surely face challenges on the road ahead, I am confident the University will continue to flourish and prosper, as our past history has consistently demonstrated.
Finally, I would like to reiterate my heartfelt thanks to 
all who have worked hard to help develop this Strategic Plan. The future development of the University will bear witness to their efforts.
Prof. Rocky S. Tuan 
Vice-Chancellor and President
CUHK 2025
3
Education
Research 
&  
InnovationGlobal  
Engagement
Alumni  
Engagement 
& 
Institutional  
AdvancementSocial  
Responsibility 
& 
Sustainable  
Development
4
Excellence with Purpose and ResponsibilityStudent  
Experience
Talent  
Attraction 
& 
DevelopmentGlobal  
Engagement
Social  
Responsibility 
& 
Sustainable  
Development
CUHK 2025
5
6
Founded in 1963, with fewer than 1,400 students 
and 300 staff, CUHK is home to over 30,000 students and 8,000 staff members today. Recognized globally as a leading comprehensive research university, and one of the finest in Asia, 
CUHK has come a long way.
CUHK cherishes the vision of achieving 
excellence with purpose and responsibility, seeking to forge a better future for all and, in particular, contribute to the development of Hong Kong and mainland China, through education, research, innovation and service.
With the largest campus among all the 
universities in Hong Kong, and by far the most lush and green, CUHK is also the only university in Hong Kong that offers a collegiate experience, with unique college-based learning programmes forming an integral part of the undergraduate curriculum. Over 9,000 students now reside on campus, across nine Colleges and six Postgraduate Halls of Residence. This number 
will grow to more than 10,000 in the near future, 
when the construction of three new hostels is completed. By 2027, another three hostels will open their doors, which will further enhance the campus environment, as well as learning experience, making CUHK a destination of choice for both local and international students.
The University launched a five-year plan in 2016, 
which set out its key strategies for expansion. 
Progress over the past five years has been encouraging. Although the validity of university rankings may be open to doubt, the fact that CUHK has risen from 138th place in 2016 to 56th in 2021 in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings, and from 51st in 2016 to 39th in 2022 (published in 2021) 
in the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) rankings 
should be taken in a positive light. Among the universities in mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, CUHK was ranked third in the 2020 Ranking of Top Universities in Greater China, behind Tsinghua University and Peking University. This ranking, which grew out of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, relies on bibliometrics and institutional statistics, unlike 
some of the other rankings that make use of 
academic reputation. In 2016, CUHK garnered HK$644.5 million in research funding. In 2020, the figure has grown to HK$1,178.4 million, and the number of PhD students has grown about 23% to nearly 2,500 during the past five years. Reflecting the University’s effort in promoting internationalization, over 40% of our students enjoy some form of global learning exposure, 
supported by a network of nearly 300 partners. 
This effort did not go unnoticed, as CUHK is ranked the third most international university in the world based on the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings. These improvements are not trivial given the highly competitive environment and bode well for the University’s future.
The time has come for a new strategic plan, 
charting the direction of the University in its next phase of development.Introducing ‘CUHK 2025’
A new strategic plan, charting the direction of 
CUHK in its next phase of development
CUHK 2025
7
Road Map to Excellence
A strategic plan is a road map, not a straitjacket. 
In an era of rapid change and significant disruptions, universities need to remain nimble and agile in anticipating future trends and responding to emerging conditions. The 
COVID-19 pandemic is a case in point, forcing 
universities worldwide to make drastic adjustments. Nevertheless, the goals and ambitions outlined in a strategic plan help focus attention and resources, while remaining committed to achieving excellence in all areas across the University. One may want to identify and achieve certain peaks, but for a great university there must be a high level of 
excellence across the board. This is the context 
in which the CUHK Strategic Plan 2021–2025, or ‘CUHK 2025’ for short, is set.
Seven key areas are addressed in ‘CUHK 2025’:
• Education
• Student Experience
• R esearch and Innovation
• T alent Attraction and Development
• Global Eng agement
•  Alumni Eng agement and  
Institutional Advancement
•  Social R esponsibility and  
Sustainable Development
These focal points may be conceptually distinct, 
but they form a holistic whole, and must thrive 
together to create and nourish an ecosystem 
that is conducive to the flourishing of human development as well as knowledge creation, dissemination, exchange and application.
8
CUHK is proud of its traditions. ‘CUHK 2025’ is 
in one sense a continuation of the University’s previous strategic plan. However, continuity always finds itself amidst change; the human condition is never static. ‘To combine tradition 
with modernity; to bring together China and the 
West (結合傳統與現代  融會中國與西方)’ —this stands at the heart of the mission of CUHK and will continue to guide our aspirations.
At the same time, tradition must seek fresh 
interpretation in every age for it to stay relevant, truly alive, resulting in a fusion of horizons that garners and distills the wisdom of tradition 
in addressing current issues constructively 
and creating value for present and future generations. This is the spirit that underlies the formulation of ‘CUHK 2025’, not to attract attention with novelties that often fade away as quickly as they arrive, but to focus and enhance the strength of our community to further the fundamental goals of the University.
The external environment poses serious 
challenges for university development at this juncture. There are global issues such as climate change and the emergence of new infectious diseases that cry out for urgent attention. There are equally critical local concerns. Demographic shifts, geopolitical fissures and inequality add to the complexity of the higher education landscape. In this context, there 
is every need for the University to focus on 
its core business in achieving excellence in education, research and service. The theme of ‘CUHK 2025’ is excellence with a deep sense of purpose and responsibility. This does not drive a wedge between theoretical and practical knowledge, or between basic and applied research. Rather, excellence with purpose, which entails responsibility, sharpens our vision 
and emphasizes the impact and contributions 
we make towards a better future.
Excellence is as much a process as it is a 
desired end. As an end, excellence is marked by achievements of the highest quality. As a process, it extends beyond operational success that measures the execution of business strategies by short-term results. As a process, excellence defines the self-understanding, aim and sustained effort of individuals and institutions in achieving the best possible outcomes. Excellence with purpose and 
responsibility renders explicit that these 
outcomes serve the interests of humanity. Excellence is not an accolade we seek, but a commitment to making a positive difference through education, research, engagement and everything we do.
In modern Chinese, the word xin (心) means the 
heart. However, in classical Chinese philosophy, 
xin signifies the seat of cognition, emotions 
and ethical dispositions, and as such it is often translated into English as the ‘heart-mind’. This points to a holistic understanding of the self and personal growth, bringing into view the perceived integral nature of intellectual and ethical excellence. The CUHK motto, ‘博文約禮’ or ‘Through learning and temperance to virtue’, reflects a similar view. While recognizing the 
need for new interpretation and application, 
the University is committed to staying true to its roots, in the belief that, as the Confucian Analects aptly puts it, ‘Once the roots are established, the Dao or Way will grow.’
In the final analysis, this is the kind of 
excellence we seek, of both heart and mind, with purpose and responsibility, exemplifying 
the highest standards, and as a process of 
building a community that embraces diversity and stays united in its effort to enrich the lives of the people of Hong Kong and beyond. World recognition will come because of this commitment and the results we achieve, which is a consequence but not the reason for engaging in the pursuit of excellence. Through ‘CUHK 2025’, which involved extensive 
consultations with the University community, 
we hope to be able to take another firm step in that direction.
Continuity and Change: Excellence with  
Purpose and Responsibility
CUHK 2025
9
10
Education
Meeting the Challenges of T omorrow
CUHK’s exacting standards and innovative 
programmes enable its students to step up  to the challenges of tomorrow
A Rewarding Journey
CUHK prides itself in its dedication to 
education. Over the past decades, continual enhancement has resulted in a balanced undergraduate curriculum of both breadth and depth, anchored by an award-winning 
General Education curriculum. Non-formal 
education programmes contribute significantly to a well-rounded education and whole-person development. Postgraduate programmes 
bloomed. The University’s coursework and 
research postgraduate programmes are much sought after by local, mainland and international students. Considerable effort has been put into expanding professional and continuing education, which provides 
opportunities for upskilling and enrichment and 
in so doing, serves the needs of society.
CUHK 2025
11
The Next Lap
To meet the challenges of tomorrow, CUHK 
graduates must be globally ready, be able to cross knowledge boundaries, and aspire to become competent leaders and make lifelong contributions to society. 
To achieve these ends, the University recognizes 
that the curricula at all levels and their constituent components, the programme structure and pedagogy, as well as the University’s infrastructure should be enhanced to create an even better teaching and learning environment to engage and encourage the students to step out of their comfort zone and 
take ownership of their learning.
The University has been conducting rigorous 
reviews on its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats to chart its way forward. Notwithstanding the accomplishment of the strategic goals in the last five years, which saw an enhanced curriculum with an increased emphasis on entrepreneurship and innovation, 
language proficiency and collaborative 
programmes, programme structures and pedagogy need to be made more adaptive and responsive to the potential risks and threats in the New Normal and in an increasingly complex and fast-changing politico-economic landscape.The rigorous major programme structure that requires the students to immerse fully in a subject discipline can sometimes become a 
hurdle for the fostering of interdisciplinary 
learning, which may turn out to be a weakness that needs to be addressed.
Secondly, ‘CUHK 2025’ seeks to build on the 
high-quality postgraduate education that has contributed to the success of the University as a bastion of cutting-edge research and trailblazing discoveries. The University aims to 
raise the number and quality of its postgraduate 
students with enhanced internationalization and research initiatives. This will help push research and innovation to a higher level and contribute to talent development.
Lastly, the School of Continuing and 
Professional Studies (CUSCS) has also undergone major development in recent years, following 
the implementation of its five-year plan 
formulated in 2016. With a robust quality assurance system in place, CUSCS is in a strong position to promote lifelong learning, in line 
Modern languages
Digital literacy
Quantitative reasoning
Computational thinkingInterdisciplinaritySustainability
Diversity & Inclusiveness
Bilingual proficiency
IT capability
Numeracy & analytical skills
Critical & independent
Effective in communication
Habit of reading widelyDepth within a specialty
Broad range of intellectual disciplines
General knowledgeChinese & other cultures
Global perspectives
Sense of national identity & pride
Compassion, honesty & integrity
Sense of purpose
Responsibility & commitment in lifeGLOBAL READINESS
CROSSING KNOWLEDGE BOUNDARIESCONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY
Professional  
& Generic skillsKnowledgeAttitudes & 
Values
• ability to 
continue with 
lifelong learning 
& professional 
development• as a vehicle for 
experience in 
serious study & 
enquiry• sense & ability 
to contribute as 
citizens & leadersMeeting the Challenges of Tomorrow
12
Education is central to the University’s vision 
and mission and must work in tandem with research, student experience and the other equally important components of ‘CUHK 2025’ to propel the University forward. With a strong 
foundation, there is every confidence that CUHK 
will be known for its exacting standards and with the Government’s strategy in response to changing conditions in the employment scene.
To prepare our students for the challenges of 
tomorrow, to equip them with the knowledge, skills and values through formal and non-formal learning, the University must set clear goals and devise appropriate strategies to bring them to fruition. The goals we have set for ourselves in the years 2021–2025 are:
•  T o develop integrative programmes that 
cross-disciplinary boundaries, enhance global perspectives and inculcate 21st century skills •  T o adapt programme structure and pedagogy 
to excel in the New Normal
•  T o enable students to take ownership of their 
learning and stepping out of their comfort zone
•  T o strengthen postgraduate education 
as a key to building research and internationalization
•  T o expand CUHK’s leading role and positive 
impact on the professions and industry as well as the larger community through high-quality sub-degree, professional and continuing education programmes (SPCEP)
innovative programmes, enabling our students 
to meet the challenges of tomorrow. With the support of faculty members, staff, students, alumni and friends of the University, and working closely with industry and government, the future is bright.*  UG (Under graduate); PG (Postgraduate); SPCEP (Sub-degree, 
Professional and Continuing Education Programmes); GE (General 
Education); TPg (Taught Postgraduate); RPg (Research Postgraduate); 
SDG (Sustainable Development Goal)S1:  Interdisciplinary research
S2:   Collaborate with non-local institutions
S3:  Internationalization of RPg
S4:  Increase linkage of TPg to research
S1:  Effective use of technology to support 
development
S2:  Micro-credential
S3:  CUSCS adopts global values & vision
S1:   Online courses
S2:   Students participation in teaching development
S3:   Review policies and regulationsS1:  Redesign programme structures & assessments
S2:   Continue eLearning development
S3:  Mixed-mode teachingS1: Revisit core requirements
 -  IT : 21st century skills
 -  Modern languages
 -  Enhance GE
 -  SDG: GE & be yond
S2: Service learning
S3: Interdisciplinary programmes
S4: Internationalizing the curriculum
 -   Collabor ative & dual degree 
programmesGoals and Strategies
ENHANCED 
CURRICULUMPG UG
SPCEPPlay a pivotal role in research & 
internationalizationG4
Impact on professions & industries G5
Students taking ownership of learning & stepping out of comfort zone G3Adaptive programme &  pedagogy under new normalG2Global perspective, 21st century skills,crossing knowledge boundaries G1
CUHK 2025
13
Student Experience
Nurturing Excellence of Both Heart and Mind
CUHK is a cradle for future global leaders who are 
imbued with strong moral character, emotional resilience, entrepreneurial mindset, innovative  
spirit and competencies to make lifelong  
contributions to society
Nurturing our students to become responsible 
global citizens and leaders is deeply embedded in the vision of the University.
In the 2019–20 academic year, some 4,300 young 
men and women in the freshmen cohort were 
welcomed into a caring and culturally diverse campus. Undergraduate student enrolment stood at 17,611 in 2019, of which 2,477 were non-local students, representing about 14.1% of the undergraduate population. Among the non-local students, the majority (1,504 or 60.7%) came from the mainland, while the remaining (39.3%) hailed from overseas—50 countries, regions or cities, to be exact. The ratio of non-local students in the postgraduate sector is considerably higher. Out of a total of 13,183 postgraduate students in 2019, 6,065 (46.0%) were non-local students, most of whom from 
the mainland. In all, in 2019, CUHK was home 
to 30,794 students, of whom 8,542 (27.7%) were non-local students. 
Exchange students further add to the 
international mix of the student population. With 282 exchange partners from 36 countries and regions, CUHK has grown into a global university.
14
In promoting internationalization, the 
University does not lose sight of the students’ 
understanding of the nation and local society. Global competence and local knowledge are not mutually exclusive. Rather, they are mutually reinforcing. A widened intellectual horizon and 
sound knowledge of one’s own culture enable 
students to avoid the pitfalls of parochialism and equip them with the ability to comprehend and critically appraise global issues. This is the kind of ‘glocal’ learning experience we provide for both local and non-local students on campus. 
Currently, a variety of courses and activities are 
on offer to enhance the learning experience of 
both the local and non-local students. Many of 
these focus on China and Hong Kong society, including its history, culture, language, as well as contemporary development and challenges. Courses on foreign languages and cultures 
are also available, and they are generally well 
subscribed. In addition, to facilitate student integration, the Colleges and various service units have been working together to promote inter-cultural understanding and mutual 
respect through non-formal learning and 
cultural activities, including celebrations of major festivals of different cultures, and student-led interest classes such as handicraft and cooking with an international flavour.
While such initiatives generally receive very 
positive feedback from the participants, there is room to expand their reach. The need to 
redouble our effort in creating a vibrant and 
harmonious campus is heightened by the social unrest in Hong Kong in the second half of 2019 and the COVID-19 pandemic. While the University responded in exemplary fashion to maintain its educational programmes through e-learning, the disruptions to campus life have taken a heavy toll on the mental well-being of many students.
The University has devoted much effort and 
resources over the past few years to improving student mental wellness through credit-bearing positive psychology courses, enhanced services at the Wellness and Counselling Centre of the Office of Student Affairs (OSA), and the revitalization of Sunshine@CUHK (originally a campaign to raise student awareness of the 
importance of mental wellness). Nevertheless, 
given the difficult circumstances, it is necessary to do even more to foster student well-being and strengthen their resilience so that they can better cope with adversity.
Acrimony on campus arising from political 
disputes in the larger society is another issue that requires the urgent attention of the 
University. Efforts in promoting diversity 
and inclusiveness with a view to building a harmonious campus are in place and will form a key component of ‘CUHK 2025’.
Equally important, the University will ensure 
that students with special educational needs (SEN) are given all the necessary help and support. While the majority of the students are 
adept at online learning, SEN students will not 
be left behind, as the University prepares for teaching and learning under the New Normal. 
Global and Local: A Fusion of Horizons
CUHK 2025
15
A Fourfold Plan
In this context, with continued uncertainty 
and challenging conditions, the University will adopt a fourfold strategy in the next five years, to provide a rewarding student experience that nurtures excellence with purpose and 
responsibility. The four-pronged approach 
encompasses the intra-personal, inter-personal and personal-societal dimensions of student experience. They are:
Empathetic 
concern for the 
well-being of 
others, across 
local, national 
and global 
communitiesCreative and  
adaptive life  
planningSocial  
engagementA growth  
mindset
16
Engage Explore
•  Engage students with 
ideas and practice of (a) 
empathetic concern for the well-being of others and nature; (b) social engagement; (c) creative and 
adaptive life planning; and 
(d) a growth mindset
•  Activities designed to 
develop desirable values, attitudes and skills as a part of enhanced student orientation and first-year experience programmes•  A phase for students to 
explore their interests and aspirations and hone their skills, through career planning, social engagement at local, national and 
international levels, and 
other opportunities provided through the Colleges, I∙CARE Centre and other units
•  Overseas exposures 
and global learning opportunities to explore different cultures and environments, reflect on national and global issues, 
and acquire intercultural 
sensibility and skills
• A phase for further development of values and attitudes, with the benefit of experience and reflection
• Translating insight gained into practice, with University support for students to design their action plans for self-
engagement, relating to 
others, and serving the community through social engagement•  Continuous support to 
students to apply their knowledge, values and plans to real-life situations, with the aim of developing further self-enhancement 
and ability to contribute to 
society
•  A dynamic life plan 
constituted and reconstituted•  Reaping the benefit 
of development and empowerment in the process, students can grow with the desired values and skills to become responsible and 
productive members of society
•  Our graduates will (a) be 
mature adults equipped with 
the competence to navigate social and cultural diversity and complexities; (b) embrace a growth mindset and be 
adaptive and creative; and 
(c) possess strong ethical character marked by a deep concern for human welfare, and engage in activities contributing to the betterment of humanity1 2
A Road Map
The four-pronged approach described above combines into a road map that will prepare our students well for their life journey, from the initial point of 
engagement to the destination 
of a flourishing life. The road map takes into consideration the intra-personal, inter-personal and personal-societal levels of student experience.
Depending on the character, 
strengths, orientations and 
readiness of individual students, 
they can embark on this process from any entry point.
Embrace Evolve Flourish 3 4 5
CUHK 2025
17
From Discovery to Innovation 
Research Excellence with Purpose and  
Responsibility
A superhighway that enables the translation of research 
into tangible benefits and the delivery of innovation to the world
Research lies at the heart of the vision and mission of 
CUHK. A champion of research and innovation that create value and bring benefits to society, CUHK is recognized today as a leading research university in Asia and among the best in the world. In the coming five years, CUHK will 
focus on integrating research, innovation and enterprise 
into a dynamic and productive continuum, a superhighway that enables the translation of research into tangible benefits and the delivery of innovation to the world.
With a clear and pronounced emphasis on 
interdisciplinary research that crosses the boundaries of individual academic units, the University seeks to optimize opportunities to generate impactful outcomes. 
The CUHK Strategic Plan 2016–2020 identified four 
research foci, which are of critical importance to the flourishing of humanity in the 21st century. Considerable resources have been devoted to developing these areas, and they will continue to guide the University’s research under ‘CUHK 2025’.
Research, Innovation and Enterprise must be taken as a 
continuum to achieve the University’s strategic goal for 
the next five years, namely, to generate impact based on existing and strategically identified directions of research and innovation, and to capitalize on the opportunities available from both private sectors and the government via Public-Private-Partnership (PPP). ‘CUHK 2025’ sets its sight on establishing the University as a trusted go-to-partner for PPP. We aim to complete two to three partnerships in the coming years, to establish a strong track record.
18
China: Tradition  
and Modernity
CUHK has been a leader in China 
research, with over 200 faculty members working on and a good number of centres and institutes devoted to various aspects of China 
Studies. Research on China at CUHK 
is bilingual and multi-disciplinary. This is a distinguishing feature of the University’s China research, which few other universities can rival. ‘China: Tradition and Modernity’ eschews disciplinary divides and seeks to focus research on key issues from multi-disciplinary perspectives, 
to foster understanding and identify 
the challenges and opportunities in China’s development.Innovative  
Biomedicine
CUHK is a world leader in genetic, 
genomic and precision medicine. The HKSAR government has launched a series of initiatives related to translational biomedicine. There 
are also opportunities for the 
commercialization of biomedical inventions. CUHK will make use of these opportunities and resources to build on its successes and lay claim to being one of the most innovative universities in the world.Strategic Area  1 Strategic Area  2
 1  2
CUHK 2025
19

Information and  
Automation TechnologyEnvironment and  Sustainability
Applications of AI and machine 
learning are already creating a significant impact on multiple fields, in both STEM and non-STEM disciplines. CUHK is already a leading 
institution in Asia in machine learning 
and AI research. The potential of information and automation technology in contributing to healthy and smart living is immense. CUHK will capitalize on its strength and further raise its research capabilities in this area.For good reasons, practically all the top universities in the world focus on research and innovation in the area of environment and sustainability. Environment and sustainability, as an 
integral research area, was identified 
as a key focus in the CUHK Strategic Plan 2016–2020. Good progress has been made and ‘CUHK 2025’ will continue to develop research and innovation in this area.Strategic Area  3 Strategic Area  4
3 4
20
Pre-Incubation
CommercializationIntellectual  
Property  
AssessmentPatent Filing
Invention  
DisclosureTranslational  
ResearchBasic  
ResearchStart-upIncubation & 
AccelerationVenture 
InvestmentMarket Launch
Product 
Development  
by LicenseesTechnology 
Licensing
Entrepreneurship Gateway
Research Innovation EnterpriseCUHK Research and Innovation
CUHK 2025
21

22
CUHK 202523

24
Global Engagement
Spreading our Wings to  
Add Value and Create Impact
Uniquely positioned to serve as a bridge between 
China and the West, CUHK is one of the most internationalized universities in the world
In a short span of 58 years, CUHK has become 
a leading institution of higher learning known internationally for its dedication to education, impactful research and global engagement.
The rapid growth of China has created an 
abundance of opportunities for development in higher education and collaboration between mainland and Hong Kong universities. During the past few years, CUHK has strengthened its presence in Shenzhen and collaborations with mainland institutions, capitalizing on opportunities arising from the Greater Bay Area (GBA) Development Plan and the Belt and Road 
(B&R) Initiative.
Global engagement will continue to be a major 
focus of the University under ‘CUHK 2025’. The grand challenges facing the world require global collaboration. The jobs of the future will not be confined by borders. Internationalization and engagement of mainland China will continue to be a priority in the University’s pursuit of 
excellence with purpose and responsibility. In the next five years, the University’s global 
engagement plans aim to:
•  N urture students with a global vision and 
outlook to prepare them for careers in the mainland and around the world through the curriculum, non-local experiential learning programmes and a vibrant campus that integrates students of all cultures, religions 
and nationalities
•  Pr omote research collaboration with 
universities, centres of research excellence, 
industry, funding and policy agencies, and philanthropic organizations that would lead to world-class impactful research
•  R einforce the University’s reputation 
nationally and internationally to make CUHK the university of choice for students and a magnet for talent
CUHK 2025
25
Strategic 
collaboration 
with national 
and international partners
A fast-growing knowledge 
economy in China that prioritizes research breakthroughs and technological innovations presents distinct opportunities for 
CUHK to deepen its engagement 
and foster strategic partnerships in the mainland.
We will expand and enhance 
collaborations with global partners, leveraging CUHK’s strength in key areas of education and research, its well-established 
international reputation as a 
knowledge enterprise, and its unique role as a bridge between China and the rest of the world.Global learning 
and experience for 
students
Global learning and experience 
are critical to student success in the 21st century. It is necessary to expose students to diverse cultures, ideas, knowledge and 
skills that would prepare them for 
rewarding careers, responsible citizenship and leadership roles in a rapidly changing global environment.Global  
Engagement 
2021–2025
Mutually 
Reinforcing 
Priorities
26
Faculty and staff 
as champions of 
global engagement
CUHK faculty and staff are 
committed to excellence in education, research, and service. With our faculty members as well as professional and administrative 
staff stepping forward as 
champions, the University will be able to build on the strong foundation already laid and spread its wings in global engagement for excellence with purpose.Branding and  
reputation building
A stronger CUHK brand will 
be developed to project the University as the partner of choice for education and research, both nationally and 
internationally. We will tap on 
the expertise of the professions and industries, and garner the support of our staff, students and alumni in this endeavour.Building and 
supporting a 
diverse body of 
students
Central to the University’s global 
engagement mission is to build a diverse body of undergraduate and postgraduate students, attract talent from around 
the world in both teaching 
and research, and promote diversity and inclusiveness that would benefit the entire CUHK community and beyond.
CUHK 2025
27
Talent Attraction  
and Development
Bringing in the best and bringing out  
the best in all our people are key to  CUHK’s continued success
The measure of a university is always the quality of its people. The 
quality of human capital impacts not only the core business of the University but also the future growth of Hong Kong. In providing education, research and service of the highest standards and quality, the University seeks to nurture future leaders, contribute to Hong 
Kong’s economic development, help strengthen the fabric of society and 
address complex global challenges. These are the reasons for achieving academic excellence, for which a strong ‘Team CUHK’ is needed.
28
•  8,140 full -time staff in June 2020
• 41% in teaching and r esearch positions
•  48% of  the faculty members at present hail 
from outside Hong Kong, spanning the globe 
from over 40 countries
•  CUHK  has been rated the third most 
international university in the world in 2021 by the Times Higher Education (THE) World University RankingsJunior  
Support
Technical
Professional AdministrativeResearchSenior Lecturers,  
Lecturers and Other 
Teaching StaffAssistant ProfessorsAssociate Professors Professors
Office  
Support1,829
1, 122
686
438 7251,663642367 304
364
8, 140Team CUHK at Present
CUHK 2025
29
Vice-Chancellor’s Strategic Recruitment Programme
Professorships/ 
Visiting ProfessorshipsEarly Career 
ProfessorshipsGlobal STEM 
ProfessorshipsIn the next phase of the University’s 
development, strengthening Team CUHK in qualitative terms will be a priority and major challenge.
Enhancing our 
Human Capital•  Concerted eff ort to recruit the best academic and research as well as 
professional and administrative staff—members of Team CUHK play different but equally important roles
•  A  flagship Vice-Chancellor’s Strategic Recruitment Programme will compete 
for the best talent and announce to the world our aim and ambition 
•  Enhanced Staff  Development Schemes
30
Diversity and inclusion is a key 
initiative of ‘CUHK 2025’, as the University continues to grow as a world-leading university. The University has zero tolerance for 
any form of harassment. Just as 
biodiversity is essential to the health of nature, a diverse and inclusive campus environment is vital to realizing excellence with purpose and responsibility.
•  Building a di verse and inclusive 
work environment conducive to the flourishing of excellence with purpose and responsibility
•  Staff  development through 
attentive mentorship
•  Dedicated tr aining programmes 
to develop teaching and professional skills, and to nurture future leaders of the UniversityEnhancing the 
Academic  
Environment and 
Campus Life
•  Business pr ocess enhancements 
to raise competitiveness and  
standards
•  Br eaking down silos and 
creating pathways for cross-disciplinary and inter-departmental collaboration
In a knowledge community, 
hierarchical barriers should give 
way to a collegial culture that values the contributions of all its members. Coupled with open communication channels, this will go a long way in steering CUHK towards an even brighter future.Staff Retention and Development
•  Colleg e residential capacity 
will be expanded. Academic facilities will also be enhanced, especially laboratory space, and several new building projects will be developed. IT 
infrastructure and capacity 
will not be neglected.
•  T he University will develop 
more programmes to increase campus vibrancy, e.g., continual upgrading of staff housing on campus, curated events to facilitate faculty 
and staff gathering in relaxed 
settings to promote cross-fertilization of ideas and community building.
CUHK 2025
31
32
Education and research are an investment in 
the future. Institutional advancement supports the University to achieve its goals. CUHK is grateful for the generous support of its alumni, individual and corporate donors, as well as 
charitable trusts and foundations, who share 
our vision in creating a better future through education and research for the people of Hong Kong, mainland China and the world. They motivate us to work even harder to achieve excellence with purpose and responsibility.Alumni Engagement and  
Institutional Advancement 
CUHK has been able to go from strength 
to strength thanks to its supportive alumni population and a strong culture of giving among all the members and friends of the University
Our Alumni Community and the Task Ahead 
At the start of the new century, CUHK was home to 
about 67,000 alumni. Today, the number of alumni has increased by nearly 360% to over 240,000. 
In the five years from 2016 to 2020 alone, 55,084 
students graduated from the University. Some 
45% of our alumni graduated within the past 10 years. The CUHK alumni family, especially younger alumni, will continue to grow substantially over the next five years. It is also noteworthy that the number of postgraduate alumni is growing strongly. Our alumni holding only postgraduate degrees from the University now account for 39% of the entire alumni community.
How do we effectively engage this large and 
increasingly diverse community? This is the exciting task that lies ahead.
CUHK 2025
33

Expand
Expand connections 
with alumni around the world, including local, mainland and overseas alumni 
communities, while 
strengthening ties with undergraduate and postgraduate alumni in diverse disciplines Enrich
Enrich and foster a sustained sense of belonging, recognition and pride among alumni through an 
array of engagement 
events, communication, alumni associations and networksEnhance
Enhance valuable and positive interactions between alumni and students while capitalizing on alumni’s 
talents, expertise, 
networks and resources to nurture students’ whole-person development and learning experienceEnlarge
Enlarge partnerships among different internal units to create greater synergy and stronger impact on 
alumni engagementIn the next five years, alumni engagement will be proactive and aligned 
with the goals of the University. The changing demographics demand that more targeted programmes will have to be devised, rendering obsolete any one-size-fits-all approach to alumni engagement. The set of strategies proposed here can be summarized as the four Es—Expand, Enrich, Enhance and Enlarge. They reflect the University’s commitment to developing even stronger ties with its alumni.
The 4 ‘Es’ of Alumni Engagement
34
While alumni and donor support has been 
unflagging, the challenges facing university advancement in the near to medium term are formidable. The COVID-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc around the world and the social unrest in 
Hong Kong has not been kind to the economy. 
Both capital campaigns and targeted 
fundraising will play a role in the University’s new advancement drive. The needs of the University and donor interests will be carefully mapped out and matched. Priority areas will be identified. The articulation of the University’s vision will be sharpened, to connect better with existing and new donors. Stewardship of 
existing gifts will be strengthened.
The University will endeavour to expand its 
donor base. New prospective donors who share the vision and values of the University will be engaged, both within and outside Hong Kong. Mainland China, in particular, represents a potentially significant source of support for university advancement, especially given our 
sizeable alumni presence in virtually all parts of 
the country. 
The University will also aim to cultivate a 
stronger culture of giving, which brings other rewards. For example, a student may be inspired to donate the cost of a cup of coffee to a charitable cause each week. Although the amount may not be large, the act of giving would help build ethical character and humane concern for others, the importance of which can hardly be measured in monetary terms. 
The eagerly anticipated 60th anniversary of 
CUHK in 2023 will be a momentous occasion. The University will be taking the opportunity of celebrating this landmark moment to draw new interest and support for its future initiatives. Several signature developmental projects and campaigns that will help build interest and support among our students, staff, alumni, 
benefactors and friends are being planned. 
These projects will highlight the University’s accomplishments, current initiatives, and future goals, and more importantly inspire the wider community to join us in the journey to excellence with purpose and responsibility.
Advancement for a Shared Vision
CUHK 2025
35

36
Embracing  
Social Responsibility  
for Sustainable Development
CUHK espouses the values of people, social, and 
environment and economic harmonies in the  pursuit of sustainable development
As a responsible public institution, CUHK is 
committed to addressing society’s greatest challenges and contributing to the well-being of the global community, through the integration of teaching, research and engagement. 
University social responsibility (USR) has 
been a driving force—albeit unacknowledged at times—of its strategies and will be at the forefront of its next five-year vision. 
In fact, CUHK has been fulfilling its social 
responsibility and ensuring sustainable development in all its activities, as it discharges its functions in the creation, dissemination and 
innovation of knowledge, educating the youth 
and nurturing them as leaders in the globalized knowledge economy, exchanging knowledge that would impact society, developing and cultivating talent for the pursuit of excellence and engaging alumni and other stakeholders in the advancement of the institution.
CUHK takes a holistic approach to social 
responsibility, connecting and articulating its vision, goals and priorities to guide planning and management practices. We engage the University community throughout the process to ensure that all members understand and identify with the CUHK values and the quest for a sustainable and just world both for themselves and for those 
who follow in their footsteps.Contributing to a Better Future
CUHK 2025
37

Five-year Goals
The next five years is a time of transformation. 
CUHK aims to establish itself as the premier university embracing social responsibility for sustainable development. The CUHK community espouses the values of people, social, and 
environmental and economic harmonies in the 
pursuit of sustainable development, and it is determined to make a difference.
The University has set for itself concrete 
sustainable development targets in alignment with the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which apply to all areas of the University’s endeavours. The SDGs 
are interconnected, and the progress of one 
goal will directly or indirectly facilitate that of the others. 
USR Goal 1
To improve public health through 
preventive healthcare research and outreach.
USR Goal 2
To increase equal access to and the impact of quality education through creativity and technology.
USR Goal 3
To promote diversity, inclusion and partnerships through understanding and respect.USR Goal 4
To pursue climate action and commit to the ambition of carbon neutrality by 2038.
USR Goal 5
To advocate responsible processes by setting standards and creating scalable solutions.
Values and USR Goals
38
A Portfolio to Success
The following three overarching strategies will 
guide the University’s pursuit of the five USR goals:
•  Pr omoting research impact for  
sustainable development
•  N urturing socially responsible  
future leaders 
• P artnering communities in action
The USR portfolio outlines the initiatives 
and action plans guided by these strategies and focuses resources on relevant SDGs and achievable accomplishments in order to maximize impacts and efficiency.
CUHK 2025
39
‘Building on a strong 
foundation, ‘CUHK 2025’ 
delivers a clear roadmap 
that will guide us further 
to fulfill our vision in 
achieving ‘excellence with 
purpose and responsibility’ , 
as we carry out the role 
of a civic university that 
contributes to Hong Kong, 
our country, the region and 
the rest of the world.’ 
Professor Rocky S. Tuan,  
Vice-Chancellor and President
42The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Sha Tin, NT, HKSAR, The People's Republic of China
Tel: 
 (852) 3943 6000 / 3943 7
000 
Fax: 
 (852) 2603 5544
 
Website:  
www.cuhk.edu.hk© The Chinese University of Hong Kong 2021This brochure was produced by the Information Services Office, 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ strategicplan/cuhk2025

