  
 
Strategic  Plan  
2021 - 202 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
College of Economics and Political  Science  
 
1 
 INTRODUCTION  
Having established and consolidated its national standing for teaching and learning, research and 
community engagement since 1993, College of Economics and Political Science (CEPS) has now 
entered a dynamic, new phase of strategic development as well as educational growth.  Being t he 
market leader in Oman business ed ucation, CEPS  continuously strives to elevate its strategic 
position through regular improvements to its programs, teaching and learning performance, 
research contributions, corporate and academic partnerships, and service to the local and world 
community.    
In its pursuit to become an internationally recognized sch ool of excellence, CEPS has 
developed its five -year strategic plan to serve as a framework of action for the years 2021 to 2025. 
The plan is designed to provide  an overarching guide for CEPS’ actions to achieve its mission and 
vision , where achievement of major goals is considered an indicator of the College’s  endeavors to 
achieve its  vision.   
CEPS Strategic Plan 2021 -2025 is anchored in the primary goals and purpose of CEPS to 
provide outstanding teaching and learning, scholarly research and community engagement.  
The plan is a somewhat organic document that is subject to change depending on changing 
conditions, new challenges, environmental ambiguities and unanticipated requirements. Hence, 
depending on changing circumstances , it is subject to future ch anges whenever necessary.  
Responsibility for implementation of the plan remains with the Dean, Assistant Deans and Heads 
of Departments and their representatives.  
 
STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS  
The current strategic plan for CEPS provides a framework for plan ning and action in the  2021 -2025  
timeframe. The College’s Mission, Vision and Values statements are the platform for all strategic 
planning activities and, in particular, the Vision Statement is the foundation for the three pillars 
involved in the executio n of the strategic plan. This business -oriented strategy outlines how CEPS 
competes within the education industry and has its origins in the corporate focus of SQU long term 
Strategic Plan 2016 -2040.  
To produce a credible, coherent and realistic strategic plan that coordinates and aligns 
2 
 resources and actions with its mission, CEPS follows a formal planning process, formulated on a 
five-year cycle. As a matter of institutional arrangements, a college -level Strategic Planning 
Committee oversees the development of CEPS’ strategic plan. In developing its strategic plan, the 
College seeks input from various stakeholders including faculty, students, Advisory Board 
members, accreditation bodies, alumni and ot her stakeholders at different stages of the strategic 
planning process. Determining the College’s strategic aims and actions entails assessing the 
positioning of the College, the available resources, examining strengths and weaknesses, and 
determining glob al trends and opportunities. The evidence collected from these positioning 
analyses is used to develop the goals for each of the strategic domains: Teaching and Learning, 
Scholarly Research, and Community Engagement . The College ensures that its strategic goals are 
in line with SQU strategic goals and that CEPS’ Strategic Plan is conceptualized to  guide its 
contribution to the U niversity’s and Oman’s long -term objectives.  
The strategic goals are then augmented with appropriate objecti ves and tactics defined  for 
each of the five years. The action (or operational) plans are determined annually and updated 
during the year based on the progress made or challenges encountered, with some actions 
spanning a period longer than a year. Beside the operational plan, de finitions of specific 
quantitative indicators (KPIs) are prepared and linked with each basic goal in order to monitor the 
degree of its completion. The final step is to have the strategic plan appr oved by the College 
Advisory Board, SQU  administration, and  SQU Council.  
 
CEPS STRATEGIC POSITIONING  
CEPS is the leader in management, business and political science education in Oman as part of 
SQU, and its associated regional and international ranking in the Arab World and among GCC 
countries.  In 2018, CEPS rece ived the prestigious accreditation by the European Foundation for 
Management Development (EFMD ); making CEPS the only  state -owned  business school  in the 
Middle East receiving EQUIS accreditation . In terms of CEPS’ strategic position and collaboration 
with the business community, the College regularly interacts as a preferential partner with a wide 
variety of multinational, regional and local companies, which in turn provide internships and 
3 
 employment for CEPS graduates. Regionally, CEPS compares itself in s imilar ranks with other EQUIS 
accredited schools at regional universities . 
Strength, Weaknesses, Opportunities , and Threats (SWOT) Analysis  
Although CEPS is the market leader in Oman business education, it continuously strives to 
elevate its strategic position through regular improvements to its programs , teaching and learning 
performance, research contributions, corporate and academic partnerships, and service to the 
local and world community. However, CEPS recognizes  its weaknesses as well as strengths, and is 
strongly committed to take advantage of the  many emerging opportunities from its position as the 
leading business school in Oman, as  well as being able to mitigate the threats, ongoing and 
emerging, to its key position.  
As part of the strategic planning process, the following is an examination  of CEPS internal  
operating environment – its resources and capabilities, and its external and competitive 
environments to identify strengths and weaknesses, and opportunities and threat s, respectively. 
The following figure shows the SWOT Analysis produced thr ough active collaboration of all CEPS 
departments, units and key stakeholders.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  STRENGTHS  
• The only state -owned business 
school in the Middle East accredited 
by EQUIS  
• Highly recognized nationally and 
regionally.  
• Diverse and well -qualified 
international faculty.  
• The leading research business 
school in Oman  
• High quality student intake  
• Internationally benchmarked 
programs’ portfolio.  
• Excellent learning environment & 
infrastructure  
• High employment of college 
graduates  
  WEAKNESSES  
• Shortage of senior faculty 
(Associate & Full Professors).  
• Limited number of postgraduate 
programs.  
• Too departmental, not 
interdisciplinary.  
• Small number of international 
students in postgraduate 
programs  
• Below standard research 
productivity  
• Limited students’ engagement 
with the industry.  
• Shrinking resources (financial and 
supporting infrastructure).  
4 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to meet its current and future challenges, the College has unified its efforts 
through its strategic pillar planning, which acts as the central mechanism and platform for CEPS to 
build on its many strengths and opportunities, and overcome any potential threats and 
weaknesses.  
 
CEPS Current Challenges  
Based on the above analysis , we can summarize the challenges  that CEPS needs to address in the 
next five years as illustrated in the  following  figure.  OPPORTUNITIES  
• Introducing new postgraduate 
programs to meet Oman’s 
changing business and 
employment needs.  
• Room for more local and 
international engagement.   
• Introducing executive programs 
and consultancy to the industry.  
• Attracting more postgraduate 
international students  
  THREATS  
• Competition from other 
business schools in Oman and 
GCC countries (attracting 
faculty and students).  
• High dependency on 
government – lower 
administrative autonomy.  
• Reduction in government 
funding.  
  
  
5 
  
 
 
CEPS STRATEGIC DIRECTION AND OBJECTIVES  
As a result of recent changes in the Oman’s economic and business direction  and new trends in 
higher education sector , CEPS is now clearly at the  forefront of key changes occurring at SQU, 
among students, and in the Oman government over the growing importance and urgency of 
greater private business development (local , regional, and international).  
Positioning Omani graduates on wider employment pat hways involving the rapid 
redevelopment of Oman’s economic, business and social development, acts as a guiding pillar in 
CEPS’ strategic planning and positioning e fforts.  
To meet these challenges, CEPS has re -assessed its strategic position and revised it s 
Mission, Vision and Values. These were then translated into broad long -term strategic goals, and 
medium term strategic plan in consultation with faculty, students, alumni, advisory board and 
other stakeholders.  Hence, CEPS Strategic Plan 2021 -2025 is anchored in the primary goals and 
purpose of CEPS to provide outstanding teaching and learning, scholarly research and community 
services.  CURRENT 
CHALLEN
GESExapnding 
College 
AmenitiesRecruiting 
Highly 
Qualified 
Faculty
Expanding 
Corporate & 
International 
Engagement Increasing 
Number of 
International 
StudentsRaising 
Research 
Productivity 
(Quality And 
Quantity)Expanding 
Postgraduate 
Programs 
Portfolio
6 
 CEPS Vision, Mission and Values  
 
Vision  
To be internationally recognized for excellence in  business and political science education, 
research , and contributions to socio -economic development.  
 
Mission  
To provide a learning and research environment benchmarked to international  standards and 
engage in national and international strategic partnerships in order to contribute to national 
development.  
 
This Mission is underpinned by three  core strategic goals that form the foundations of CEPS’ 
purpose and guide all of its activities:  
 
Excellence in Teaching and Learning  
Careers in line with th e needs of the labor market and responsible socio -economic 
advancement. CEPS’ goal is to follow national and international standards in the delivery 
of these attributes through continually assessed, student -centered, interdisciplinary 
programs based on act ive-learning and outcome -based teaching methods.  
At the postgraduate  level,  CEPS’  aim is to offer  senior  students  and professionals  
multi - disciplinary  opportunities  to benefit  from  integrated  research  and coursework -based 
programs.  CEPS’  postgraduate  programs  aim to facilitate  active  faculty -peer - external 
stakeholder collaborations that foster the acquisition and application of internationally 
recognized skills based on best practice and ethical, responsible and sustainable business, 
information syste m management and  policymaking.  
 
Scholarly Research  
CEPS aims to promote a college -wide research culture of engagement among faculty and 
students in internationally recognized research output that contributes to academic 
7 
 knowledge, applied research, innovation and commercialization. This research culture is 
geared towards strengthening collaborative, strategic research endeavors with national 
and international universities, companies, organizations, and institutes to transform 
knowledge into value for  Oman and the world.  
 
Community Engagement  
CEPS aims to engage with the outside  community through effective corporate and 
international partnerships, and by contributing outstanding graduates and research in 
support of sustainable socio -economic developmen t. 
 
Values  
CEPS holds shared values with SQU in terms of excellence, integrity, equity, commitment and 
collegiality. In addition, CEPS’ values include ethics and agility, which are critical to a modern 
business school. In carrying out its mission, CEPS is guided by the following values:  
Excellence: We expect and foster excellence in student, faculty and staff  performance in 
achieving our  Mission.  
Integrity : We expect and promote a college environment, which maintains the highest 
standards of academic  integrity in learning, research and respect for regulations, laws and  
customs.  
Equity : All members of the CEPS family, – which includes all stud ents, staff, faculty and 
alumni –are expected to dispense and receive equal consideration and opportunity in all  
activities, policies and decisions.  
Collegiality: We foster an environment of positive & professional collaboration in the spirit 
of collegiality  based  within Omani traditional values of tolerance, coexistence and  
understanding.  
Commitment : We expect and positively encourage dedication and commitment to the 
8 
 achievement of CEPS’ Mission.  
Agility : In a changing business & policy -making world, CEPS understands the need to 
promote the value of intellectual and practical dexterity and agility.  
Ethics: We demand  and actively foster awareness and respect for impeccable standards of 
ethics in the conduct of business, policy -making,  research  and all other  related  professional  
fields.  
Strategic Goals  
In line with SQU strategic goals and to achieve its mission and vision, CEPS has identified three  
goals. The first goal addresses CEPS’ endeavor to provide innovative, high -quality, and high -impact 
academic programs . The se cond goal addresses the need to i ncrease quality and impact of 
scholarly research . Finally, the third goal addresses  the need to meet stakeholders’ needs by 
strengthening relationships with corporate and academic partners, alumni, and community . 
Following is  a breakdown of the three goals , and strategies  and initiatives  identified , which 
lead to the Operational Plan containing objectives and tactics for achieving each strategy.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 Strategic Domain: Teaching and Learning  
GOAL 1: To advance innovative, high -quality, and high -impact academic programs  
Strategies  Initiatives  KPIs 
Strategy  1: Elevate our 
programs into the top 
programs  in the region  1. Continuously review  undergraduate 
and graduate programs  based on 
industry needs  
 
2. Grow and expand  offerings in graduate 
programs  based on industry needs  
 
3. Collaborate with  reputable 
international universities to offer joint  
graduate programs  
 
4. Increase market awareness  of our 
programs, students, faculty, and 
college  Review of academic 
programs   
 
Number and diversity of 
programs  
 
 
Number of joint programs  
 
 
 
Graduate student s 
admission rate  
 
Graduates  employment 
rate 
 
Increase in admission rate 
of international students  
Strategy  2: Provide 
innovative and effective 
educational opportunities  1. Increase the number of 
interdisciplinary  undergraduate and 
graduate programs in collaboration 
with other colleges on campus bas ed 
on industry needs and/or academic 
trends  
 
2. Increase use of innovative  and 
effective technologies, pedagogies, 
and/or diverse delivery formats and 
channels including e-learning  to cover 
more  classes and programs , as 
deemed necessary  
 Number of 
interdisciplinary programs  
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of courses 
using innovative and 
effective technologies, 
pedagogies, and/or 
diverse delivery formats 
and channels including e -
learning  
 
Strategy  3: Support, 
recognize, and reward high -
quality teaching and service  1. Encourage and reward  innovative  and 
high -quality teaching  and teaching 
scholarship  by establish ing an 
incentives policy  
 Introduction of variety of 
incentives  
 
Student satisfaction rate 
with advising services  
Number of advisees per 
10 
 2. Improve  effectiveness of  student -
advising  services through better online 
tools, enhanced training of advisors.  
 
3. Develop a faculty -coaching  model to 
enhance the teaching skills of our 
faculty.  
 advisor  
 
Percentage of faculty 
members benefiting from 
the coaching program  
Faculty satisfaction about 
coaching program  
Strategy  4: Recruit and 
retain diverse and talented 
students  1. Raise the enrollment  of 
high -quality 
international students  in 
all programs . Increase in admission rate 
of international students  
Strategy 5: Augment 
students exposure to  
ethical, social 
responsibilities, and 
sustainability  (ERS) issues  1. Incorporate ERS learning outcomes 
into the  curriculum.  
 
 
2. Raise students’ 
awareness  of their 
ethical and social 
responsibilities  in the 
business and work 
environments.  
 Integration of ERS 
learning outcomes into 
the curriculum.  
 
Number of awareness 
events organized  
 
Number of students 
attending these events  
 
Number of non -ethical 
academic incidents  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 Strategic Domain:  Research  
GOAL 2: To increase quality and impact of scholarly research   
Strategies  Initiatives  KPIs 
Strategy  1: Hire candidates 
with high research potential 
and demonstrated high -
quality research  aligned with 
CEPS research focus areas  
 1. Recruit staff who are at the forefront 
of their  discipline or are embarking 
upon cutting -edge  
research in areas of strategic interest 
to CEPS.  
 
 
 
2. Develop and execute a system that 
addresses acceptable research 
performance  in terms of quality and 
quantity  Percentage of newly 
recruited faculty 
publishing in A&B ranked 
journals according to 
ABDC journal ranking  (or 
other ranking systems 
recognized in the field)  
 
Number of publications 
per faculty members 
published in A&B ranked 
journals  (or other ranking 
systems recognized in th e 
field)  
 
Number of publications 
per faculty members 
published in reputable 
research indexing outlets  
Strategy  2: Support, 
recognize, and reward high -
quality research  1. Create research clusters  to promote 
cross -disciplinary networks of 
individuals engaged in joint research . 
 
2. Establish a teaching -load policy  based 
on research quality and productivity  
 
3. Increase and expand research support 
for research -active faculty  
 
4. Expand funding  for research 
infrastructure  
 Number of research 
clusters/groups  
 
 
Introduction of teaching -
load policy  
 
New incentives for 
research active faculty  
 
Provision of needed 
equipment, facilities, 
labs. ..etc.  
Strategy  3: Improve scop e, 
reach, and quality of PhD  
program s 1. Expand the number of  PhD programs  
 
 
2. Increase admissions of high -quality 
doctoral students   
 
3. Encourage PhD students to publish in 
high quality journals  Number of PhD programs  
 
 
Annual admission rate of 
doctoral students  
 
Number of publications in 
A&B ranked journals (or 
12 
 other ranking systems 
recognized in the field) 
published by PhD students  
 
Strategy  4: Increase external 
visibility of faculty  
 
 1. Recognize and reward faculty for 
outstanding professional service 
activities  
 
2. Publicize  faculty research 
accomplishments through traditional 
and social media  
 
3. Promote CEPS locally as a center of 
expertise  that informs business 
practice, policy and  
regulation both nationally and 
internationally  Recognition and rewards 
provided  
 
Variety of publicity outlets 
used  
 
 
 
Number of joint 
projects /consultancies  
with public and private 
institutions  
Strategy  5: Enhance 
international research 
collaboration  1. Increase sabbatical leave and research 
visits  
 
2.  Create  joint  research  teams/ projects  
with international collaborators  Number  of sabbatical and 
research visits  
 
Number of research 
grants with international 
collaborators  
 
Number of research 
publications with 
international collaborators  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
 Strategic Domain:  Community Engagement  
GOAL 3: To meet stakeholders’  needs by strengthening relationships with corporate and academic 
partners, alumni, and community.  
Strategies  Initiatives  KPIs 
Strategy  1: Build CEPS 
capacity in executive and 
professional education 
activities  
 1. Create professional and 
developmental opportunities for 
faculty in preparation for building skills 
in providing relevant and effective 
executive education.  
 
 
 
2. Recruit strategically so that we bring 
on board individuals with confirmed 
expertise in relevant  area s. 
  
3. Design and implement an executive 
education program  that significantly 
contributes to the success of 
businesses in our region  
 Number and variety  of 
professional and 
developmental 
opportunities  offered  
 
Percentage of 
participating faculty  
 
Percentage of faculty with 
relevant expertise  
 
 
Number and variety of 
executive e ducation 
programs offered  
 
Number of participants  
 
Revenues generated  
Strategy  2: Expand and 
enhance experiential and 
extra -curricular learning 
opportunities for students  
 
 1. Increase student participation in 
national and international 
competitions  
 
 
2. Invite local and global  thought leaders  
as speakers for classes, seminars, and 
workshops  
 
3. Host local and global events  to bring 
together business leaders, community, 
faculty, staff and students to discuss 
current issues and challenges facing 
the business community  
 
4. Promote a powerful profession al 
mentoring  and communication  
network among CEPS’ current 
students, alumni , external  corporate Percentage of 
participating students  
 
Number of competitions  
 
Number of thought 
leaders invited  
 
 
Number of local and 
global events hosted  
  
 
 
 
Number of mentors and 
mentees  
14 
 and community partners, and the 
College as a  whole.  
 
Strategy  3: Develop global 
citizens   1. Increase student participation in 
exchange programs, global internships, 
and study tours . 
 
 
 
2. Increase student participation in local 
and global community development 
and leadership activities  Number of students 
participating in exchange 
programs, global 
internships, and study 
tours  
 
Number of exchange 
programs, global 
internships, and study 
tours  
 
Number of students 
participating in local and 
global community 
development and 
leadership activities  
Strategy  4: Enhance 
contributions to economic 
development in Oman  1. Increase education and assistance for 
entrepreneurs and business 
professionals  
 
 
2. Initiate the publication of flagship 
business  or industry reports  that have 
regional or national impact  
 Number of activities 
offer ed in educating and 
assisting entrepreneurs 
and business professionals  
 
Number of flagship 
business or industry 
reports that have regional 
or national impact  
Strategy 5: Strengthen CEPS - 
alumni connection  1. Extend the CEPS -student connection 
beyond graduation  to create a strong 
lifelong bond with the College and 
SQU  through the Alumni Association.  
 
2. Promote the achievements of CEPS 
alumni in and outside of  the College.  
 Number of CEPS events 
organized for  CEPS alumni  
 
 
Promotional activities 
highlighting alumni 
achievements  
 
 
 
 
15 
 CONCLUSION  
 
CEPS, along with SQU, has undergone considerable change during the past few years. CEPS’ 
existing strong foundations and primary objectives in education, research and community 
engagement  enable it to be in a position to adapt strongly and optimize emerging o pportunities. 
Therefore, while rapid and extensive, these changes have resulted in impactful and effective 
organizational restructuring efforts, new governance policies, procedures and structures rooted 
in international quality assurance benchmarks, expand ed community engagement, corporate 
partnerships, and enhanced research and development, and internationalization initiatives.  
Despite the existing improvements, the College aims to continue upgrading its high -quality 
learning environment, continue develop ing a portfolio of programs to meet the expectations of 
its stakeholders and assist in creating a knowledge -based society in Oman to demonstrate its 
commitment to continually face the identified challenges. The College further aims to focus on 
improving th e quality of research, to extend the scope of areas of research and to publish in high 
quality journals. The College further aims to increase corporate connections, increase joint 
partnerships with corporates, and increase involvement of corporate and othe r stakeholders in 
the College’s decision -making processes. The College also plans to increase diversification of its 
students by encouraging students to study abroad, develop collaboration with institutions abroad 
for student and faculty exchange, and attr act more international students to CEPS.  
 
 
