 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Swansea University  
Strategic Equality Plan  
2020 -2024  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you require this document in a different format, e.g. large print, braille, etc.  
please  contact  equalopportunities@swansea.ac.uk or call on 01792  602367
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        2 Introduction  
 
 
Swansea University has been at the cutting edge of research and 
innovation since  1920. We have a long history of work ing with business 
and industry but today our world  class research has a much wider impact 
across the health, wealth, culture, and well - being of our society. We have 
achieved an extraordinary level of success in recent  years,  and as we 
approach our  centenary  we look forward to a  bright  future.  
 
Swansea University will celebrate its Centenary on July 19th 2020. This 
unique  occasion in the University’s lifetime not only presents an opportunity 
to celebrate the  University’s achievements and journey over the past 100 
years but is also a time to  focus  on the future . 
The University Strategic Plan encompasses 20 centenary commitments. A 
number of  these commitments have synergy with the intent of this Strategic 
Equality Plan. Some of  these areas i nclude improving the student experience, 
widening participation and a  commitment to provide a safe and inclusive 
environment that improves diversity and  enables  all of  the University  community  
to fulfil their  potential.  
At Swansea University we recognise the importance of embedding 
equality and  diversity  and aim to  ensure  that equality  is at the heart of  
everything  that we do.  
During the period of our previous plan, we were delighted to have been 
recognised as  being successful in gaining a number  of equality related charters 
including a Silver  Athena SWAN University level award (gender) and a top 50 
position in the Stonewall  Workplace Equality Index. We aim to replicate similar 
progress in other equality areas.  With this recognition comes responsi bility, and 
in the context of a climate undergoing  considerable change, we are committed 
to ensuring the equality and diversity agenda is  given a high priority. We will 
proactively work together with our stakeholders to deliver  on our equality 
priorities, eliminating all forms of barriers and discrimination, and  creating 
inclusive working and learning environments.  We understand that people’s  
identities and social positions are shaped by multiple factors, creating unique  
experiences and perspect ives. Intersectionality is therefore an increasing topic 
of consideration for the University. In the coming years, we aim to further 
explore  intersectionality  through  our involvement  in the various  equality  charters.  
We aim to provide an environment of res earch excellence, with research that is 
world - leading, globally collaborative and internationally recognised; Deliver an 
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        3 outstanding  student experience, with research -led and practice -driven teaching 
of the highest  quality that produces global graduates e ducated and equipped for 
distinguished  personal and professional achievement; Use our research 
strength, collaboration with  industry and global reach, to drive economic growth, 
foster prosperity, enrich the  community and cultural life of Wales and, contrib ute 
to the health, leisure and wellbeing  of its citizens.  Our University  Strategic  Plan 
contains  further information . 
Swansea University provides a first -class education and experience for over 
20,000  students,  and employs in excess  of 4000  staff,  across  3 academic  
Faculties.  
 
The University is positioned in the UK Top 30 of the Research Excellence 
Framework  League Table . It has a gold rating in the national Teachin g 
Excellence and Student  Outcomes  Framework  (TEF),  and has a 5-star 
rating  for teaching  quality.  
 
 
 
 

 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        4 1: THE EQUALITY  ACT 2010  
 
General Equality  Duty  
 
The Equality Act 2010 came into force in October 2010 and it places an equality duty on  
public sector bodies such as Swansea University. In carrying our functions, we must  
have  due regard  to the need to:  
 Eliminate discrimination, harassment,  victimisation and any other conduct that is  
prohibited  under  the Act;  
 Advance equality of opportunity between persons who share a relevant protected  
characteristic  and persons who do  not share  it; and 
 Foster good relations between persons who share a relevant protected  
characteristic  and persons who do  not share  it. 
 
The General  Duty covers  the following protected  characteristics:  
Age, Disability, Gender Reassignment, Pregnancy and Maternity, Race, Religion and  
belief, Sex and Sexual orientation, Marriage and Civil partnership (in respect of the  
requirement  to have  due regard  to the need  to eliminate discrimination).  
The University Strategic Plan encompasses 20 centenary commitments. A number of  
these commitments have synergy with the intent of this Strategic Equality Plan. Some of  
these areas include improving the student experience, widening participation and a  
commitment to provide a safe and inclusive environment that improves diversity and  
enables  all of  the University  community  to fulfil their  potential.  
 
Welsh  Language  Standards  
 
As a University we are committed to the Welsh Language Standards  and have  
additiona l actions  in place  to promote  and facilitate  the use of the Welsh language  
 
 

 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        5 2: ENGAGEMENT  AND  CONSULTATION  
 
 
In order  to inform  this Strategic  Equality  Plan we have  engaged  and consulted  with: 
 
 
 
 
TRADE  UNIONS  STUDENTS  UNION  
 
ENGAGEMENT  
AND  
CONSULTATION  
STAFF  OF 
ALL PROTECTED  
CHARACTERISTICS  STUDENTS OF  
ALL PROTECTED  
CHARACTERISTICS  
 
 
 
 
We have done this via:  
STUDENT SURVEYS  
STAFF  SURVEYS  
ATHENA SWAN  
REPRESENTTIVES  
BENCHMARKING DATA  
(SUCH  AS CENSUS  
AND  ADVANCE  HE)  
 
UNIVERSITY EQUALITY  
COMMITTEE  
RACE  CHARTER  MARK  
AND STAFF NETWORK  
REPRESENTATIVES  
DISABILITY  
WORING GROUP  
REPRESENTATIVES   
 
LGBT+ STAFF NETWORK  
MEMBERS  
FAITH PROVISION  
REPRESENTATIVES  
STAFF QUANTITATIVE  
DATA  
STUDENT QUANTITATIVE  
DATA  
 
 
Other relevant information that we have used to inform the Strategic Equality Plan  
includes  (but is not limited to) : 
 Equality and Human Rig hts Reports, including ‘Is Wales Fairer? 2018’ and  
‘Tackling  racial  harassment:  Universities  challenged  (2019)’  
 Legislative drivers such as the Wellbeing of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015,  
and the Socio -Economic  Duty ,within the Equality  Act 2010  
 Welsh  Government  Reports  
 HEFCW  reports  and Strategic  Equality  Plan 2020 -2024  
 Internal  Strategies  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        6  
3: STRATEGIC  EQUALITY  OUTCOMES  
 
This Strategic Equality Plan adopts an outcomes focused approach, systematically  
embedding equality into each of the processes underpinning our plan. We have  
ensured that our outcomes are aligned to the strategic direction of the University and  
are informed by the consultation and involvement outlined in section 2. This approach  
will enable us t o continue to meet our current commitments whilst at the same time  
allow  us to  respond  to emerging  priorities.  
Through consultation and external research, we have defined nine Strategic Equality  
Outcomes, and their associated objectives and success measure s. The steps that we  
will take to achieve the outcomes below can be found in the Action Plan document  
here. 
 
 
Outcome 1:  
 
Ensure fairness in pay with regards to gender, ethnicity and disability, by  
reporting  on and reducing the identified pay  gaps.  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 Gender: To reduce the current mean gender pay gap by 2 percentage points by  
2024  
 Race:  To identify the current mean and median ethnicit y pay gap using the same  
methodology  as used  to calculate  the gender  pay gap (Gov.uk)  
 Disability: To identify the current mean and median disability pay gap using the  
same  methodology  as used to  calculate  the gender pay  gap (Gov.uk).  
 
 
 Key drivers:  
Equality Act 2010, Is Wales Fairer 2018 Report (Theme – Employment). Internal pay  
MI for gender.  Community  engagement  outcome.  Socio  Economic  Duty in Wales.  
Athena SWAN Silver Action Plan and Athena SWAN Silver application 2021, Race  
Equality Char ter, University Strategic Plan 2020, Welsh Government’s Strategic  
Equality  Plan,  External  MI from Higher  Education  Statistical  Report  2019,  University  
Equality  Plan 2016 -2020.  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        7  
Outcome 2:  
 
Promote and improve a culture of dignity and respect for all by increasing  
awareness  of reporting of  bullying  and harassment.  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 
 Staff and students demonstrate an increased awareness of policy in relation to  
Dignity  at Work  and Study.  
 Staff and students report an increased confidence in the reporting of bullying and  
harassment  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome  3: 
 
An Improved  Diversity  of Representation  on University  Governance  
Committees  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 
 There is a 50/50 gender balance on Council University  committees, where this  
has not  been achieved so  far 
 Increase the % of Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Council members to  
10%,  reflective of  the local  area.  
 
 
 Key drivers:  
University Culture Survey, Equality Act 2010, Is Wales Fairer 2018 Report, (Theme – 
Justice and Personal Security) EHRC Race Enquiry 2019. University Stra tegic Plan  
2020 (Strategic Enabler 15 -We will provide a safe, inclusive, and supportive  
environment that upholds our commitment to improving diversity and enables people  
to fulfil their potential). Fee and Access Plan 2019/2020. HEFCW reports and  
Strategic  Equality  Plan 2020 -2024  
Key drivers:  
Is Wales Fairer 2018 Report (Theme 7, Participation), Athena SWAN, and Race  
Equality  Charter,  Welsh  Government  Gender  Equality  Review  2018, Internal  MI, 
Community engagement outcome. HEFCW reports and Strategic Equality Plan  
2020 -2024  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        8  
Outcome  4: 
 
Attract and recruit diverse and quality leaders who fulfil our leadership  
values  and behaviours  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 
 Over the 4 year period, for all PVC, Director and Heads of Faculty roles, 50% of 
those  appointed are  female.  
 Over the 4 year period, for all PVC, Director and Heads of Faculty roles, 15% of  
those  appointed are BAME.  
 Over the  4 year period  to increase  the % of LGBT+  Professors  to 2.4%.  
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome  5: 
 
To develop  a diverse,  high  quality  academic  and professional  services  
workforce  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success  Measure:  
 
 Higher success rate of all applicants to academic promotions at all levels,  
specifically  a higher  success  rate for female  academic  and BAME  academics  
 Gender:  To reduce  the current  mean  gender  pay by 2 percentage  points  by 2024  
 
 
 Key drivers:  
Is Wales  Fairer  2018  Report, Athena  SWAN,  and Race  Equality  Charter,  Stonewall  
WEI, Welsh Government Gender Equality Review 2018, Internal MI, Community  
engagement  outcome.  
Key drivers:  
Is Wales Fairer 2018 Report, Athena SWAN, and Welsh Government Gender  
Equality  Review  2018,  Internal  MI, Community  engagement  outcome.  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        9  
Outcome  6: 
 
To attract and recruit a diverse high quality academic and professional  
services  staff  that share  our ambition  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success  Measure:  
 
 Numbers  of female Professors  increased  to sector  benchmark  
 To increase the success rate for BAME applicants at appointment, to make this  
comparable  to white applicants.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome  7: 
 
Excelling  achievement  for students  from  all ethnic  backgrounds  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 The degree  awarding differential  for BAME  students  is reduced.  
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome  8: 
 
Delivery of an innovative and collaborative CONNECT programme aimed at  
students  to promote  positive and  healthy  behaviours  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success Measure:  
 
 To embed wellbeing into the culture of our institutions, creating a connected  
community with trained staff and students (“Connectors”), enabling a shift to a  
whole  university  approach  supporting  mental  health  and wellbeing.  Key drivers:  
Is Wales Fairer 2018  Report,  Athena  SWAN,  Welsh  Government  Gender  Equality  
Review  2018,  Internal  MI, Community  engagement  outcome.  
Key drivers:  
UUK Attainment Gap Pledge , Race Equality Charter, NSS, Athena SWAN, Is Wales  
Fairer Report 2018, Socio -Economic Duty, Internal MI. HEFCW reports and  
Strategic  Equality  Plan 2020 -2024  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        10  
 
 
 To establish a sustainable preventative model of delivery that is flexible and  
meets the differing needs of partner institutions, and, changes in student  
wellbeing  needs  over time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome 9:  
 
Centenary  curriculum commitment  will be embedded by  2024  
 
Objectives  and Overall  Success  Measure:  
 
 The six dimensions of the Centenary Curriculum will be embedded to the highest  
standard  within all programmes  to develop the  Swansea Graduate.  
 
 
 
 
 
The steps that we intend to take to meet all of our equality outcomes (including  
gender pay  and relevant  timescales)  can be found in  here . Key drivers:  
Welsh Government well -being and health related strategies, HEFCW, the Well -being  
of Future Generation Act (2015). The Equalities Act, The Violence Against Women,  
Domestic Abuse and Sexual Abuse Act (2015). Socio -Economic Duty. Internal MI.  
Community  Engagement.  HEFCW reports  and Strategic  Equality  Plan 2020 -2024  
Key drivers:  
University Centenary Plan, Welsh Government well-being and health related  
strategies, HEFCW, the Well -being of Future Generation Act (2015). The Equalities  
Act, The Violence Against Women, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Abuse Act (2015).  
Socio -Economic Duty. Internal MI. Community Engagement. HEFCW repor ts and  
Strategic  Equality  Plan 2020 -2024  
 
SWANSEA  UNIVERSITY:  Strategic  Equality  Plan  Outcomes 2020 – 2024        11 4: PROMOTING  THE GENERAL  EQUALITY  DUTY  
 
 
The following information details the ways in which Swansea University works as an  
organisation to promote the general duties of the legislation, including eliminating  
discrimination, harassment, and victimisation; advancing equality of opportunity  
between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not  
share it; and fosteri ng good relations between persons who share a relevant protected  
characteristic  and persons who do not  share  it. 
 
 
Performance  Enabling  &Training  
In order to promote knowledge and understanding of both the general and Welsh  
Specific  Duties amongst  Swansea  University  employees,  we will continue  to: 
Provide  equality and  diversity  training  and unconscious  bias training for  new staff as 
part of the induction  process.  All staff are afforded  the opportunity  to access  training  
and development relevant to their roles and responsibilities. This is facilitated through  
the Professional Development Review process, or self -service. Each year the University  
promotes an active equality calendar of events, covering a range of protected  
characteristics. These events  aim to foster good relations and promote understanding  
between  individuals  of differing  protected characteristics.  
 
 
Equality  Impact Assessment  
We will continue to assess the likely impact of the work we do for its effect on people  
who share protected cha racteristics. Utilising standard documentation, assessments are  
undertaken by policy holders, decision makers and/or those with responsibility for  
practice/procedure. Those reports that identify adverse impact will be published in the  
University’s  Equality  Annual Report.  
 
 
Relevant  Equality  Data  
We are required to periodically identify relevant information that we hold and also  
collect information that we do not hold. This data is routinely captured and reported on  
in the University  Equality  Annual Report.  
 
 
Monitoring  and Reporting  
Progress made against the objectives in this Strategic Equality Plan and the  
effectiveness of the related actions will be monitored and reviewed by the University  
Equality Committee that meets 3  times per year.  Using internal and external data  
sources to measure impact, progress will be shared with the University senior  
governance, and will be documented and published in the University’s Equality Annual  
Report  which  is available  on the University  web pages  by April of each  year 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further  information,  support  or feedback  regarding  the Strategic  Equality  Plan,  
please  contact equalopportunities@swansea.ac.uk  
