|  0Ihminen ratkaisee .
Human Potential Unlimited.
Tampere University’s strategy 2030  
Approved by the Board 10.2.2020
Building blocks of the strategy 
The strategy Impact through Integration
of Tampere Universities 
|  1Research and education strategies 
of Tampere Universities
Strategy of Tampere Universities  
Impact through integration
We are working to solve society's major challenges and 
create new opportunities by
•linking pioneering research and innovation,
•promoting interdisciplinary education and life -long partnerships,
•generating unique expertise in industrial and public -sector implementation.
As an attractive higher education community, we will meet these long -term 
goals by 
•strengthening the international networking culture and creating a digital 
campus ,
•developing novel ways of working and crossing boundaries in all our 
endeavours,
•driving sustainable societal renewal in a measureable way.
10.2.2020
       
                

OUR PURPOSE
We work together 
to build a sustainable world
•The new multidisciplinary Tampere University brings together research and education 
focusing on technology, health and society. 
•Our collaboration with our partners is built on our strengths, unique combinations of  
disciplines and applied expertise. 
•We develop solutions to tackle climate change, preserve the natural environment and 
improve the well -being and sustainability of societies.   
10.2.2020 |  2
       
                
|  3Our work is based on a continuous pursuit of new knowledge and scientific 
breakthroughs.  
New areas emerging from fundamental 
research: 
THE FUTURE OF 
WELL -BEING
SUSTAINABLE 
CITIESGAMIFICATION 
AND 
AUGMENTED 
REALITY
REVOLUTION OF 
LIGHT AND 
IMAGE
10.2.2020
       
                
We explore novel solutions for improving health 
and well -being –guided by an in -depth understanding 
of changes in the societal landscape.
The ageing of the population means there will be fewer resources to accommodate the growing 
demand for services that support health and well -being. Social inequality and the growing number 
of high -risk individuals with multiple disadvantages increase the risk of social exclusion and 
threaten the balanced development of societies. The reinvention of health and well -being systems 
requires a broad knowledge base and the development of new intelligent operational models that 
bring together the civil society, the corporate world and the public sector.   
Tampere University will introduce fresh thinking to promoting health and well -being by combining 
the possibilities opened up by technological advancement with basic research and our wide -ranging 
expertise in the areas of medicine, society, economics and management. The strengths of our 
multidisciplinary approach are already evident, for example, in the research we are carrying out in 
medical technology and gerontology.  
Our research is paving the way for the implementation of new technologies and service systems in 
collaboration with our partners. We are looking to find universally applicable solutions to current 
challenges. 
|  4THE FUTURE OF 
WELL -BEING
10.2.2020
       
                
We create globally applicable and ecologically, 
socially and economically sustainable solutions for 
urban planning –with the growing city as our living lab.  
  growing proportion of Finland’s population is living in urban areas.  ustainable urban 
development has a pivotal role in preserving our natural environment and safeguarding the 
future of our welfare state.  
Breakthroughs that help conserve our natural resources are the key to achieving 
sustainability. Systemic change can only be achieved by integrating new technological 
solutions not only into the daily lives of people and organisations but also urban 
development policies. This will require technological and institutional compatibility and an 
in-depth analysis based on a breadth and depth of knowledge. 
Tampere University possesses special expertise in urban development, organisational 
management, culture, the built environment, energy solutions, the digital transformation of 
industry, and environmental policy. Together with the City of Tampere we will create and 
implement new digital services and circular economy solutions as part of changing urban 
structures. We will drive local development that can be scaled up to global proportions.  
|  5SUSTAINABLE 
CITIES
10.2.2020
       
                
We will harness the potential of gamification and 
augmented reality to address the greatest challenges 
facing humanity. 
Gamification and augmented reality are embedded in virtually every aspect of modern 
life from child -rearing and education to work and health. The integration of game 
mechanics and extended reality into our daily lives helps to foster a sense of community, 
promote learning, increase productivity and well -begin and build motivation at both 
individual and organisational levels. 
Tampere University possesses multidisciplinary expertise for developing and applying 
gamification in a variety of contexts. We are internationally recognised for the quality of 
our research in game cultures, the ethics of gaming, game -based learning, health 
games, simulations and augmented reality.  
We create models, methods and technologies that facilitate the deployment of games, 
gamification and augmented reality to responsibly contribute to addressing the greatest 
challenges facing humanity. Our research and education contribute to the growth of 
innovation and business activities in this field.  
|  6GAMIFICATION 
AND 
AUGMENTED 
REALITY
10.2.2020
       
                
We will develop technologies based on the manipulation of 
light and optical phenomena to reshape future societies. 
Light -based technologies underpin many of the technologies upon which modern society 
relies, such as information processing, energy efficiency and imaging. In the future the 
sophisticated manipulation of light, new materials and machine vision technologies will 
pave the way for precise and non -invasive methods that will address yet new challenges 
for science, technology and society.  
Tampere University coordinates the national Flagship on Photonics Research and 
Innovation (PREIN). We are also recognised as a leading university in signal processing 
and imaging, as well as in physics, materials science and mathematical modelling that 
support these fields.  
Our basic research in light and image fuels the development of applications in medicine, 
smart traffic, intelligent machines and astronomy, among other things. Our research 
results open up new commercial opportunities that support the achievement of our 
ultimate goal –sustainable development.
|  7REVOLUTION OF 
LIGHT AND 
IMAGE
10.2.2020
       
                
Strategic actions
The actions that support the University strategy are especially focused on: 
the scientific quality and impact of research, 
the quality and impact of education, 
increasing the University's international attractiveness and retention, and  
tapping into the synergies offered by the Tampere Universities community. 
10.2.2020 |  8
           
                1
2
3
4
Being a new university, we will implement a human resource programme during the contract 
period to strengthen our community and the well -being and expertise of our staff as well as 
take measures to build a University -wide organisational culture.  
Scientific quality and impact of research
•We will improve the scientific quality of research. 
•We will undergo external assessments to identify and support world -class research activities. 
•We will integrate the principles of open and responsible science into our organisational culture.    
•We will invest in research infrastructures and make them openly available. 
•Our collaborations are based on a combination of disciplines with a focus on technology, health and 
society. 
•The new knowledge stemming from our basic research efforts will allow us to tackle climate change, preserve the 
natural environment and improve the well -being and sustainability of societies.
•As set out in our research strategy, we will launch 4 -5 four -year research platforms that transcend disciplinary 
boundaries. 
•We will offer seed funding to the research platforms to support the planning and initiation of research projects in 
collaboration with international research groups and partners who will apply the research results in practice. 
•We will diversify our research funding base and make a special effort to secure more EU funding. 
•We will improve the quality of grant proposals and actively seek the role of coordinator in collaborative projects.
•We will increasingly seek to influence the   ’s research funding policies.
•Our people are our greatest asset in the pursuit of excellence in research.  
•We will help our researchers expand their competencies at the beginning and throughout their careers. 
•We will maintain close ties with external stakeholders and the broader society.
•We will involve companies and stakeholders in the different stages of research processes. 
•We will maintain research environments that facilitate collaboration between the University and private and public 
organisations. 
10.2.2020 |  91
       
                
Quality and impact of education
•We will reshape education. 
•We will strengthen the close relationship between research and teaching by ensuring that all our teachers are involved in res earch 
and vice versa. We will integrate research into teaching and learning.  
•We will establish degree programmes and study modules that allow students to explore and integrate a variety of disciplinary 
perspectives. 
•We will offer our students opportunities to steer their learning towards a career in research while pursuing bachelor’s and m aster's 
degrees. 
•We will provide all students with a grounding in sustainable development and themes relating to the United Nations 2030 Agend a 
for Sustainable Development.  
•We will help students develop their transferable skills and build connections with potential employers. 
•We will introduce alternative pathways for student admission. 
•We will develop excellent services to support learning and teaching. 
•We will continue to develop academic guidance and counselling services to ensure our students are able to make effective 
academic progress and to increase graduation rates. 
•We will support the development of teachers'  professional identity and their pedagogical development and renewal.   
•We will develop open and digital learning environments.  
•We will  maintain close ties with external stakeholders and the broader society.
•We will help close regional skills gaps by providing education through a network -style approach. 
•We will work with our stakeholders to develop a regional model for predicting future skills demands and shortages, and suppor t 
continuous learning.  
•We will develop learning methods and instructional strategies to allow adult learners who are balancing study with work to fl exibly 
pursue continuous learning.
•We will encourage alumni to build lifelong connections with the University.10.2.2020 ‘|  102
       
                
Increasing the University’s 
international attractiveness and retention
•We will promote internationalisation.
•We will increase international recruitment with the help of the tenure track model.
•We will support international mobility and collaboration among the members of our university community. 
•We will increasingly engage in international research collaborations. Together with other stakeholders, 
we will create a support system to facilitate the integration of foreign researchers and their families into 
Finnish society.   
•We will continue to improve the quality and attractiveness of international degree programmes. We will 
introduce more international bachelor’s degree programmes. 
•We will support international students’ integration into Finnish society by expanding our range of Finnish -
language courses, helping them build contacts with potential employers and developing the existing 
service offerings in cooperation with the City of Tampere and other stakeholders.    
•We will be active members of European university networks. 
•We will tap into the opportunities offered by international university networks to expand our research 
networks and develop teaching. We will assume an active role in selected university networks.  
•As a member of the European Consortium of Innovative Universities (ECIU), we will participate in a pilot 
project to develop an innovative new model of higher education in Europe. 
10.2.2020 ‘|  113
       
                
Tapping into the synergies offered 
by the Tampere Universities community 
•We will tap into the full pedagogical potential of our multidisciplinary higher 
education community. 
•We will develop a model that will not only promote student learning and improve instruction 
across the community but also help teachers expand their pedagogical skills. We will establish a 
Teaching and Learning Centre.  
•We will develop digital pedagogy and implement digital learning solutions.
•We will offer our students and staff opportunities to develop their innovation expertise and 
entrepreneurial skills with the help of innovation platforms.   
•We will unlock the synergies offered by the Tampere Universities community to 
benefit not only our research, education and societal interaction but also our 
support services and campus development activities.  
•We will develop community -wide services to support research and teaching. We will introduce  
shared information systems for managing research, education and services.  
•We will give employees the opportunity to explore different positions and learn from their peers 
within the higher education community.
•We will openly explore possibilities to expand our higher education community. 
10.2.2020 ‘|  124
       
                
Ihminen ratkaisee . 
Human Potential Unlimited. 
•Our organisational culture is based on collaboration.
•We will adopt policies and procedures that facilitate collaboration between experts from different fields and help 
us identify research gaps and learning needs.  
•We will build an organisational culture that reflects our core values.  
•We will approach one another with an open mind and cultivate an environment where all the members of our 
community feel nurtured and valued. 
•We will launch a human resource programme to support long -term HR planning, continuous learning, 
professional growth among employees and the integration of non -employee researchers working under a grant at 
the University.  
•The University has designated 2020 as a year of occupational well -being.
•We will offer professional support for research, teaching and learning.
•We will take pride in our community’s achievements and expertise as the cornerstones of our 
impact and attraction.
•We will create new ways to encourage experimentation and recognise and reward exceptional performance. We 
will highlight the achievements of the members of our community. 
10.2.2020 ‘|  13
       
                

