Taumata Teitei
Vision 2030  and Strategic Plan 2025

The University of Auckland is located in Aotearoa 
New Zealand, a place of extraordinary beauty 
and diversity, where Māori are tangata whenua. 
From here, we reach out to the Pacific, to Asia 
and the World. Our enduring relationship 
with tangata whenua is based upon Te Tiriti o 
Waitangi, an essential part of our distinctiveness, 
and a key component of our new Vision 2030 
and Strategic Plan 2025.
I am pleased to commend to you this University 
of Auckland Vision and Strategy for the next 
decade 2021–2030, Taumata Teitei, which 
can be interpreted from te reo Māori as pursuing 
excellence, despite uncertainty. It recognises 
the exciting challenges posed by the concerns of 
our age and is a contemporary statement of our 
purpose, vision and values.
Alongside our new Vision and Strategy, we 
are co-creating a framework titled Waipapa 
(based upon the Ngāti Whātua Ōrakei gifted 
name for the University, Waipapa Taumata 
Rau). A framework that will sustain us beyond 
this 10-year Strategy, it elucidates ideas 
important to the University, including the 
principles of manaakitanga, kaitiakitanga and 
whanaungatanga. Located within an interactive 
network of maunga (mountains) redolent of the 
many mountain peaks of Auckland, this iterative 
framework will act as a dialogue over successive 
years, supporting our actions, deliberations and 
outcomes, so as to benefit our students, staff and 
key communities. 
Our common commitment to ecologically 
sustainable systems, equitable and just society, 
well-being for all, and a thriving economy based 
upon innovation, are therefore to be understood 
through the lens of this framework.
Taumata Teitei signals a strong commitment to 
excellence, sustainability, relevance, fairness and positive impact in all we do. It does this for 
the immediate communities of the University 
of Auckland, for Aotearoa and the Pacific, as 
well as the global social and economic systems 
critical to intergenerational equity across the 
world. We promote a strategy that emphasises 
well-being, human value and the preservation 
and protection of our natural world. In short, our 
strategy is for the world.
Consequently, we will sharpen our focus, 
prioritising our education and research efforts 
to improve insight and understanding of global 
concerns and opportunities, taking informed and 
positive action through ethical use of knowledge. 
We will do this across broad domains – 
geopolitical; environmental and resources; 
justice, equality and democracy; health and 
well-being; technology and digitisation – and, 
through these efforts, advance understanding 
of what it is to be human, curious, flawed, 
ingenious and interconnected.
To realise these aspirations, we favour 
transdisciplinarity, working collaboratively 
through our teaching and research, respectful 
of the complex abilities and needs of the diverse 
communities that we serve. We co-create and 
disseminate knowledge within and beyond the 
academic, which is enabled through strong and 
meaningful engagement with students, staff and 
our partners, using open and responsive novel 
work practices such as design-thinking, co-
design and co-production.
Mobilising to achieve our purpose in a world in 
flux is not without risk. To succeed, we must be 
a strongly principled and values-led academic 
community, holding ourselves and our partners to 
values that support academic freedom, curiosity, 
research-driven knowledge, sustainability, impact 
and engagement. Paramount amongst these Professor Dawn Freshwater
Vice-Chancellor
The University of Auckland
Vice-Chancellor’s  
Message
are the most human of values — openness, 
tolerance, fairness, trustworthiness and respect 
for each other and our ideas. Throughout the 
uncertainty and changes ahead, we will live our 
values and continue to reflect on them, as we, 
and our world, change.
The foci proposed in our new strategy will 
only be possible by working in ways that 
respectfully challenge old boundaries and 
assumptions, that require different behaviours. 
We will be recognised by our explicit 
collaboration with our students, staff, alumni 
and partners to understand their needs, 
aspirations and experiences. This collaboration 
will inform how we work, and our policies, 
processes, systems and decision-making.
Importantly, through our lived values we 
will continue to demonstrate our belief in 
sustainable, fair and equitable societies, 
innovation-led economies, and to meeting our 
responsibilities to Māori, Pacific and students of 
all socio-economic backgrounds.Whakataukī
Whāia te iti kahurangi, ki te tuohu koe
Me he maunga teitei
Seek the treasure which you value dearly
If you should bow your head, let it be to a lofty mountain
2     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Purpose
We create globally transformative impacts 
through our distinctive strengths in world-
leading research, scholarship, teaching and 
collaborative partnerships, inspired by our 
unique position in Aotearoa New Zealand and 
the Asia-Pacific.
Vision (2030 )
We will be internationally recognised for 
our unique contribution to fair, ethical and 
sustainable societies.
Te Ao Māori 
Principles
We are committed to positively impacting 
society, and to the advancement and exploration 
of knowledge. We will do this in ways consistent 
with our emerging Waipapa framework. Our 
fundamental principles reflect our foundational 
relationship with tangata whenua and our 
commitment to Te Tiriti.
Manaakitanga – Caring for those around us in 
the way we relate to each other.
Whanaungatanga – Recognising the importance 
of kinship and lasting relationships.
Kaitiakitanga – Valuing stewardship and 
guardianship and our relationship with the 
natural world.Our values
Respect and Integrity  
• We respect and appreciate what makes people different, harnessing the power of 
our diversity.
• We recognise the multiple perspectives of our community.
• We understand that our actions influence intergenerational equality and act 
accordingly in the service of equity and inclusion.
• We act with integrity, openness and honesty at all times.
• We take responsibility for our choices and actions, and trust that others will fulfil 
their responsibilities.
• We are values-led in our relationships, creating genuine opportunities for the 
communities we serve to engage in ethical and responsible partnerships. 
• We embrace the generation and sharing of knowledge, supporting the freedom to 
express controversial opinions and ideas without retribution.
Excellence  
• As a world-class university, we will maximise our contributions to forging just and 
sustainable societies in Aotearoa New Zealand and the Pacific.
• We are ambitious for the betterment of society and aspire to excellence in 
everything we do. 
• Together with our students, communities and international partners, we facilitate 
solutions that shape and advance our future. 
• In our role as a world-class university, we work to graduate the leaders of tomorrow.
• We believe that excellence in teaching and research provides a means of 
engendering transformation in the lives of many people.
Service   
• An ethic of active service and civic responsibility underpins all engagements with 
our communities.
• We engage with our communities in genuine partnerships to promote their 
prosperity and help them to realise their aspirations.
• We apply our knowledge, skills and expertise derived from our engagement with 
kaupapa Māori and international scholarship to the positive transformation of society.Our values are lived through our behaviours and 
actions, with strong and enduring commitments 
to open intellectual inquiry, collaboration, 
creativity, and equity and diversity.
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     3  
Humanity is at a critical juncture. As a global 
civic institution, we have a significant role to 
play as part of creating fundamental solutions 
to address unprecedented challenges during 
a time of extreme change. As a university, we 
remain committed to the pursuit of excellence in 
the development, dissemination and impact of 
knowledge. 
In respect to our unique positioning in one of 
the world’s most diverse cities in Aotearoa New 
Zealand, and our deep connections to Pacific, 
Australasian and Asian neighbours, we enjoy 
strategic regional and global alliances that serve 
to further our purpose and values.
Committed to the collaborative development, 
wide sharing and application of knowledge for 
positive and material impact on our world, we 
will selectively prioritise research, education and 
engagement activity. We will reimagine what we 
do and embrace new areas of scholarship; loci 
of research concentration; new programmes of 
study in emerging disciplines and occupations; 
and changes in how we work with stakeholders 
and partners.
We will do this through a focus on our four 
interdependent priorities of sustainability, health 
and well-being, justice, and ethical innovation 
and technology.
Leading transition to 
sustainable ecosystems 
Resource use and associated technologies have 
real effects – both positive and negative – for 
our natural, social and economic systems. 
Effects extend from the immediate to the long 
term, from the known to the uncertain, from 
local to global, macro to micro. Public, political, 
professional and academic uncertainties affect 
the capacity of policy, economic, social and 
technological adaptations, to replace or offset 
negative consequences.
We will continue to be world-leading in 
extending the reach and significance of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Earth 
systems, biodiversity, water, food, land, human 
economic systems and unplanned urbanisation 
are under such pressure that we need to find a 
way towards sustainable prosperity.We will strengthen our recognition as a 
global leader in sustainable and ethical 
practices through our education, research 
and engagement, and by our internal policies 
and practices. We recognise that indigenous 
practices may yet teach us important  
transferable lessons regarding sustainable 
ecosystems and that this mātauranga may 
be of value to us as we commit to this global 
sustainability imperative.
Improving health and well-
being for all 
The health and well-being of individuals 
and communities vary across nations, 
urban, rural and remote areas, and across 
physical, psychological and emotional 
manifestations. Health and well-being 
interventions are dependent on the human 
sense of connectedness, demographics, disease 
prevalence, political will for change, logistical 
and economic feasibility; and, the existence 
of relevant technologies. Unique indigenous 
approaches to well-being, such as hauora, which 
encompass a holistic understanding of health, 
will facilitate creative ways of delivering and 
responding to health inequalities.
Breakthroughs in technology and contemporary 
practices (such as genomics, phenomics, 
telehealth), where available, are changing life 
expectancies and quality. The effectiveness, 
ubiquity and equitable availability of 
preventative and remedial services depend upon 
a balance of technical, political, economic and 
ethical settings.
We will be a global innovator in the discovery 
and ethical and equitable application of 
technologies, public policy and delivery 
mechanisms that contribute to the sustainable 
health and well-being of humanity.
Advancing just, cultured 
and engaged communities
The capacity of individuals and organisations 
to meaningfully and fully engage in the lives 
of their communities has never been more 
important, yet recent experiences highlight 
lessening confidence in traditional governance 
structures. Understanding this, we recognise 
that maximising individual and community Our Impact
participation is one aspect of realising just 
and fair communities and creating additional 
societal value. Such efforts will help ameliorate 
the current decline in trust of democracy and 
consequential inequalities.
We will be known as a place where diversity and 
dynamism of local and global communities are 
recognised, valued and improved through our 
education, research, engagement and in how 
we treat the world. We will remain critically 
cognisant of the value and values of other 
knowledge systems including mātauranga Māori, 
and to working with citizen scientists.
Innovating contemporary, 
distributed, secure 
knowledge systems 
Opportunities abound for automated, intelligent 
and distributed systems to revolutionise society 
and economies and transform the human 
condition. New digital tools and systems 
challenge current conceptions of national 
boundaries, sovereignty, personal and group 
identity, privacy, etiquette, security, democracy 
and the rule of law.
Such transformations have impacts beyond 
economic production, reaching into lifestyle, 
workplace relationships and family formation. 
Their adoption and application threaten to 
outstrip the capacity of humanity and its 
systems to adapt. Our distinctive application 
of whanaungatanga will ensure that we remain 
connected to our common human endeavours.
We will embrace the confluence between human 
practices and digital capabilities to enable 
the fair and ethical development, application 
and distribution of innovations. This requires 
our university to engage in wide-ranging and 
entrepreneurial responses. 
We will forge enduring partnerships that inform 
and guide our progress towards becoming a 
Māori Data Sovereignty organisation. This will 
see transformations across our education, 
research and engagement practice and in how 
we work as an organisation.
4     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Students who embark on a University of 
Auckland research-informed education join 
an inclusive lifelong learning culture. They 
will be active participants in an educational 
environment that recognises and prioritises 
their changing life demands and preferences, 
and privileges human connections. They 
will learn from each other and participate 
in imaginative and innovative programmes 
designed by leading researchers in their 
disciplines and engaging with their fellow 
students in campus-based experiences.Education and Student Experience
Through the curriculum, and through the 
richness of experiences of University life, 
students will be highly connected to knowledges 
of place and conversant in mātauranga Māori, 
kaupapa Māori and Te Tiriti o Waitangi principles 
and accountabilities.
University of Auckland students are engaged in 
the design of their programmes, their learning 
experiences, the digital, social and physical 
contexts in which they learn and the myriad of co-
curricular and extra-curricular opportunities that 
enhance student life, experience and learning.As a result of our distinct educational 
experience, University of Auckland students 
and graduates will be notable for their 
leadership and high level of engagement in the 
contemporary concerns of society. 
They will possess an intimate and deep sense of 
cultural identity, social justice and civic duty and 
sustainable practices, which will be demonstrable 
in their actions and interactions. Our graduates 
will stand apart from others in their readiness to 
play leading roles in public debate and in matters 
of relevance to our communities.
Accessible, equitable lifelong higher education opportunities.
Student-centric learning, co-curricular and extra-curricular cultures.
Education that is research-informed, transdisciplinary, relevant and with impact for the world.
Graduates who make the world better tomorrow than it is today.Our Education and Student  
Experience Priorities
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     5  
Embracing its distinctive position and 
commitment to Aotearoa, and the Pacific, the 
University of Auckland will advance excellent 
research for the betterment of our world and its 
communities. Our unique diversity of world views, 
and multiple ways of knowing, enriches and 
distinguishes our research locally and globally. 
Our research will reflect and be cognisant of Te 
Tiriti and will value mātauranga Māori as a way of 
analysing and understanding our world.
A spirit of innovative, creative and entrepreneurial 
research has always characterised the University 
of Auckland. We will build on this to become a 
global powerhouse for translational research, 
developing new commercial, social and creative 
enterprises. Our institutional culture will reflect 
empowered creativity and informed risk-taking, 
and we will instil an entrepreneurial mindset 
in our graduates. Integration of research and 
discovery into our teaching and learning will 
attract and inspire our students to be bold, 
curious learners and will further inform and 
enable our research endeavours.
We commit to being open and engaged, striving 
to build strong, transparent and reciprocal 
relationships with local and global communities. 
Our research will be relevant and have a 
positive impact on the prosperity, resilience, 
environmental sustainability, and the well-
being of our society. This will be evidenced by 
confidence in the University as a partner and an 
independent and trusted critical voice. Acknowledging that deep disciplinary knowledge 
is a critical enabler of successful collaboration, 
our researchers will be encouraged to work 
beyond disciplinary constructs to tackle 
the complex questions of our age. Targeted 
international relationships will expand and 
enhance the scope, scale and quality of our 
research, resulting in transformative impact, 
and enhancing our reputation as global leaders 
in signature research areas. Curiosity-driven 
research is a core strength of the University that 
we will continue to champion. We will support a 
diversity of scholarship and the multiple paths 
to impact, critical to engaging with our diverse 
communities. 
We will nurture and sustain our research 
workforce providing tangible support for the 
development of the next generation of scholars. 
Our performance standards will respect the 
diversity of research activity across our institution 
and be compatible with a world-class university 
environment in which research careers thrive. This 
will include a focus on investing in and growing 
our Māori and Pacific research workforce.
World-class research inspired by our place in Aotearoa and the Pacific.
A global powerhouse of innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Relevant, purposeful, impactful research for our communities.
Ambitious research confronting humanity’s greatest challenges.
Nurturing, recruiting and retaining outstanding research talent.
A research ecosystem characterised by collaboration, agility, simplicity, engagement and empowerment.Research and Innovation
Research and Innovation Priorities
6     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Partnerships and 
Engagement
Our engagement and partnerships build on our 
commitment to Te Tiriti and tangata whenua.
The University’s knowledge, expertise and 
teaching are a taonga. Through partnerships, 
we express this: we are accessible; we value our 
students, alumni and donors; we are open and 
committed to iwi, communities, organisations, 
industry and international partners. With a 
strong sense of duty, we contribute to central 
and local government policy, and with our 
partners we translate research into meaningful 
outcomes for people. 
The opening decades of the 21st century have 
shaped Auckland City into one of the world’s 
most diverse cities. Its exponential growth 
has laid bare issues of sustainability, equity 
and social justice. Our unique, distinctive and 
place-based perspectives make us a valued 
partner when working with others to meet these 
community and world challenges.
We take our benefits of this distinctive and 
diverse engagement, infused by our values and 
the Māori guiding principles of manaakitanga, 
whanaungatanga and kaitiakitanga to the world 
and our global partnerships. This makes us a 
unique and highly valued partner of choice for 
the world’s leading organisations and industries.  
Acting as a knowledge broker, we not only share 
our insights, knowledge and understanding with 
the world, we ensure that the best of what the 
world offers is brought back to our Pacific shores 
and applied in the interests of all.
Our Partnerships and 
Engagement Priorities
Strengthen and deepen our relationship with 
tangata whenua.
An ambitious and relevant partner that is 
globally networked.
Deep engagement with diverse Aotearoa and 
Asia-Pacific communities.
Enduring relationships with prospective 
students, students, alumni and donors.
Diverse student body reflecting our 
communities.
Recognised and valued by our communities 
for the contributions we make towards a more 
sustainable future for all.
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     7  
The University embraces its aspiration to develop, 
support, guide and empower its people to succeed together – for the betterment of society.  
Our success will depend on reimaging how we 
access, align, engage, develop, reward and ultimately lead the workforce of the future. Societal shifts in Aotearoa New Zealand, as well as automation and digitisation, are changing the capabilities and mindsets required for the University to thrive and prosper.  
To respond, the University of Auckland will 
develop an inclusive workforce that is diverse, capable, innovative and flexible to fulfil our academic aspirations and respond to the challenges of the future. We will be a place where te reo Māori can flourish and where mātauranga Māori and Te Tiriti o Waitangi are valued, fostered, protected and used responsibly by us all. Activating our values, we will develop a mana-enhancing culture that is outwardly focused and open, characterised by belonging, equity, a commitment to wellbeing, and the empowerment of staff to innovate and succeed. 
We will take a values and purpose-led approach, 
recognising the need for aspirational inclusive leadership and empowered teams, to build insight, trust and confidence for change. The nurturing and development of a more diverse workforce, alongside the establishment of new adaptive career pathways, will strengthen our contribution to world-class research, scholarship and teaching. We will create a distinctive people experience in which our people’s wellbeing is vital and our place in Aotearoa New Zealand and the Pacific is celebrated. They will be adept at broad and deep collaboration in transdisciplinary and cross-functional contexts, in and beyond the University, with an enduring commitment to impact and sustainability. 
We will continue to champion diversity, inclusion 
and equity, ensuring all people feel valued and respected and can contribute fully to the success of the University. 
Our people and interactions with them will be 
enabled by contemporary and innovative ways of working, favouring:
•
 A deep etho
s of service to our students and 
communities.
•
 Our commitment t
o the principles of Te Tiriti o 
Waitangi.
•
 Effectiv
e collaboration and engagement with 
our communities and partners.
•
 D
edication to co-design, co-development and 
design thinking in all we do. 
•
 S
treamlined processes that support and enable 
our people.
•
 A bias for agil
e and informed change.
•
 A focus on peopl
e’s well-being and enriching 
roles.
Live our values and purpose.
Develop a future-ready workforce. Build a high-performing, diverse, inclusive and equitable community. Activate manaakitanga, whanaungatanga and kaitiakitanga across our People and Culture practices. Aspirational and inclusive leadership.Enabling our People and Culture
He aha te mea nui o  te ao. He tangata, he tangata, he tangata 
What is the most important thing in  the world? It  is people, it is people, it is people.
Priorities in Enabling  
our People and Culture
8     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Mana-enhancing stakeholder experiences will 
be the focus of how we develop and manage 
our facilities and services. These experiences 
will be anchored in our distinctive physical 
and digital spaces, responsive and accessible 
services, and our open and collaborative 
work practices that privilege the needs of our 
students, staff and partners.
Our decision making is strongly values-based, 
founded upon accountability and integrity, and 
focused on delivering professional services 
that are ethical, equitable, excellent, and 
sustainable. These values will be evident in 
our service interactions and in the experiences 
supported by our physical, digital and social 
environments. We continually seek user 
feedback and sentiment which guides our 
program of continual improvement.Our Enabling Environment
Kaitiakitanga will be evident in our approach 
to sustainability and woven into everything we 
do. We will realise this in close collaboration 
with mana whenua and through open, inclusive 
engagement with our many and varied partners.
Manaakitanga will drive innovative human-
centred design to create mana-enhancing and 
performant services and practices for our people. 
Open, transparent, and ethical governance and 
data-informed decision-making will foster a 
high-trust culture and increase the University’s 
accountability, agility, and nimbleness.
Everybody engaging with the University 
of Auckland’s digital and physical spaces 
will experience a distinctive sense of place 
that balances acknowledgement of history, 
heritage, and place with the vibrant evolution 
of our communities. Engaged and collaborative 
meditations with students, academics, community, professions, and industry on current 
and transdisciplinary challenges will be facilitated 
by well-crafted, richly integrated digital and 
physical spaces.
Our campuses and precincts will showcase 
our innovation, entrepreneurship, and 
commercialisation strengths and invite 
community and industry interaction. The 
development of our Newmarket Campus will 
reflect these strengths wholeheartedly.
We will create vibrant locations recognised as 
gateways to learning and teaching, research and 
innovation, and partnership and engagement 
with the University. These distinctive spaces 
and the rich digital connections they have will 
deliver innovative and welcoming outreach, 
engagement, and extension activities with our 
communities, particularly from our Tai Tokerau 
and Tai Tonga campuses.
Priorities for Our Enabling Environment
Mana-enhancing services and practices.
Efficient, effective, prudent, transparent, and informed operations.
Seamless, effective and equitable user experiences across social, physical and digital environments.
A distinctive, capable, and flexible built environment that celebrates our place in Aotearoa New Zealand and the Pacific.
A commitment to achieve net-zero carbon status and to publish meaningful metrics of the University’s progress towards overall sustainability.
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     9  
1. Education and Student ExperienceStrategic Initiatives
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: 
Accessible, equitable lifelong 
higher education opportunities• Review offerings, scheduling, and delivery to improve access and 
retention to accommodate broader student needs and life stages, 
including:
• improved pathways, timetabling, mode options, remote  and 
community-based provision;
• improved retention and progression for Māori students and 
Pacific students;
• non-degree education opportunities for select needs.Relevance and Impact
Priority 2: 
Student-centric learning, co-
curricular and extra-curricular 
cultures• Develop a student-centric education model for physical, digital, 
formal and informal learning activities enriched by professional and 
community co-curricular activities.
• Extend informal social, professional and academic engagement 
between individuals, student cohorts, staff and the broader 
university community.
• Review student representative systems to enhance the student 
voice.Student Experience
• Revise appointments, continuation and promotions processes to 
select for, develop and reward high-quality teaching for all student 
cohorts.
• Develop cultural competencies for all teaching staff.Capability Development
Priority 3: 
Education that is research-
informed, transdisciplinary, 
relevant and with impact for the 
world• Develop current and new offerings in our areas of transdisciplinary 
focus for quality, viability, impact and strategic alignment.
• Provide credit-bearing and partnered transdisciplinary, research-
led, experiential, international and industry-based/Work Integrated 
Learning experiences for all students.
• Develop programmes and student recruitment plans to rebalance 
education activity around transdisciplinary priorities.
• With leaders in kaupapa Māori pedagogies and mātauranga Māori, 
include te ao Māori in programmes, teaching and the student 
experience, framed by Te Tiriti accountabilities. 
• Build academic staff capability in collaborative practice, 
transdisciplinary pedagogy, student engagement and success;  
honouring Te Tiriti; working with Pacific communities. 
• Improve support for selected pedagogical innovations and the 
scholarship of teaching and learning.Relevance and Impact
10     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 4: 
Graduates who make the world 
better tomorrow than it is today• Review the University Graduate Profile to ensure that it is current, 
‘fit-for-purpose’ and gives clear expression to the full range of the 
University’s values and graduate capabilities.Relevance and Impact
Priorities 1-4: 
Educational policies and 
processes supportive of strategy• Undertake a phased review of policy and process to support above 
objectives ensuring:
• an annual cohesive executive-approved programme 
development pipeline and student recruitment plan;
• student and staff centricity;
• simplicity and fitness-for-purpose;
• clear roles and responsibilities;
• transparent risk, decision making and resourcing frameworks.Framework for Action
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     11  
2. Research and Innovation
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: 
World-class research inspired 
by our place in Aotearoa and the 
Pacific• Identify and invest in targeted international research partnerships 
that support our transdisciplinary aspirations.
• Deepen and strengthen relationships with Māori and Pacific 
communities.
• Grow Māori and Pacific scholarship in areas of transdisciplinary 
priority.Relevance and Impact
Priority 2: 
A global powerhouse of 
innovation, creativity and 
entrepreneurship• Boost knowledge mobilisation, research translation and 
commercialisation.
• Invest in university-industry collaboration in transdisciplinary 
priority areas and where we have demonstrated global competitive 
strength or potential.
• Identify innovative affiliation models (e.g. shared appointments, 
co-investments, triple-helix partnerships with industry, community 
organisations, government).Relevance and Impact
Priority 3: 
Relevant, purposeful, impactful 
research for our communities• Be a research partner of choice for industry, policymakers and 
community organisations.
• Review promotion and reward systems to appropriately recognise 
the value of a range of research endeavours. 
• Upskill and build capability of staff and students in research 
impact, engagement and science communication.Relevance and Impact
Priority 4: 
Ambitious research confronting 
humanity’s greatest challenges• Focus investment to recognise our transdisciplinary priorities and 
existing areas of proven strength.
• Foster collaboration and create opportunities for cross-discipline 
collegiality through social or intellectual interaction.  Relevance and Impact
Priority 5: 
Nurture, recruit and retain 
outstanding research talent• Strengthen, grow and diversify our research pipeline in 
transdisciplinary priority areas.
• Invest in equity objectives and particularly the growth of the Māori 
and Pacific research workforce.
• Identify and invest in academic leadership in transdisciplinary 
priority areas.
• Provide outstanding researcher training and capability building in 
areas such as Vision Mātauranga, research impact, leadership and 
research integrity.Capability Development
Priority 6: 
A research ecosystem 
characterised by collaboration, 
agility, simplicity, engagement 
and empowerment• Review policy, processes and decision-making frameworks for 
transparency and simplicity, and to inform executive decisions on 
research funding priorities.
• Invest in and strengthen shared infrastructure and resources to 
enable cross-organisational collaboration. 
• Adopt a framework to inform greater risk tolerance in our research. 
• Reduce and simplify administrative overheads and processes and 
enable agile ways of working.  Framework for Action
12     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
3. Partnerships and Engagement
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: 
Strengthen and deepen our relationship with tangata whenua•
  Collabor ate with tangata whenua to co-develop a framework with 
an ethos of service built on Māori values, to support our mutual commitment to deep and ongoing partnership. 
•
 D
evelop focussed workplans with mana whenua in Tāmaki 
Mākaurau and Te Tai Tokerau to achieve shared outcomes.Relevance and Impact
Priority 2: An ambitious and relevant partner that is globally networked• Develop a values-led framework to identify, prioritise, resource 
and manage global and local partnerships that are strategically 
aligned, diverse and ambitious, with a focus on transdisciplinary 
priority areas that support research and student and staff mobility.
• Lead, sustain and deepen our global networks to enhance the 
international outreach of our University, staff and students and 
share the benefits with local communities.
• Develop policy, process, staff and capability to simplify 
engagement with the University and facilitate access to university 
capability.
• Develop work plans with identified partners to achieve shared 
outcomes with a focus on transdisciplinary policy areas.Relevance and Impact
Priority 3: 
Deep engagement with diverse Aotearoa and Asia-Pacific communities•
Identif
y and prioritise where University transdisciplinary excellence 
is matched to community needs and develop work plans to achieve shared outcomes.
•
R
ealise our commitments to Tāmaki Mākaurau, Te Tai Tokerau, 
Pacific peoples here and in the Pacific, and our diverse communities in Aotearoa through collaboratively developed workplans.Relevance and Impact
Priority 4: Enduring relationships with prospective students, students, alumni and donors•
In collabor
ation with students, alumni and the DVCSE determine 
relationship attributes for cohorts across their life stages with the University.
•
D
esign a programme of engagement for seamless, rich and 
reciprocal relationships with individuals in their personas as prospective student, current student, alumnus, parent, employer and donor. Relevance and Impact
Priority 5: Diverse student body reflecting our communities•
Collabor
ate with students to refine our student value proposition.
•Impl
ement student recruitment activity to rebalance our student 
cohorts in transdisciplinary priority areas as outlined in our education, EFTS and budget plan.Relevance and Impact
Priority 6: Recognised and valued by our communities for the contributions we make towards a more sustainable future for all•
R
eview our organisational identity and engagement approach, 
including communications, to ensure relevant stakeholders are informed about us, our concerns, transdisciplinary priority areas and the differences we make.Relevance and Impact
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     13  
4. Enabling Environment
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: 
Mana-enhancing services and 
practices• Guided by manaakitanga: 
• develop and adopt a human-centred, collaborative and 
transparent service-design methodology grounded 
in quality, viability, relevance and strategic alignment 
criteria;
• develop a prioritised schedule of services for review;
• advance our capabilities and practices for innovation and 
co-creation of services and experiences;
• embed continuous improvement user feedback 
mechanisms in all services;
• improve student success through a holistic model for 
student support and well-being.Capability Development
Priority 2: 
Efficient, effective, prudent, 
transparent, and informed 
operations• Review planning and resource management frameworks to 
ensure strategically aligned, integrated, informed and balanced 
decision support to the VC and Executive:
• university and unit annual budget and priority setting;
• programme development, student load and research 
planning;
• marketing, engagement and communications;
• capital and facilities management planning.
• Review and recast long-term revenue and investment plans to 
ensure support for the strategy.
• Review and communicate governance and management 
frameworks (committees, accountabilities, policies, 
delegations, roles, responsibilities, risk and compliance etc.) 
for simplicity, transparency and effectiveness.
• Review the quality, viability and relevance of current operating 
models for corporate and support services to determine 
improvement opportunities.
• Develop an institutional information framework to guide 
the ethical acquisition, structure, storage and utilisation of 
institutional data assets.Framework for Action
Priority 3: 
Seamless, effective and equitable 
user experiences across social, 
physical and digital environments• Develop an integrated physical and digital environments 
plan that reimagines how we plan, develop and integrate all 
of our facilities and systems to create distinctive, equitable, 
accessible, culturally attuned, user-shaped and sustainable 
spaces and experiences. 
• Create focussed plans for Newmarket, Tai Tokerau and Tai 
Tonga recognising and maximising the specific opportunities 
represented by each.
• Identify campus improvements through the Master Estate Plan 
that create a welcoming, vibrant, attractive, and comfortable 
environment for students, making our University campuses 
places students want to be.Student Experience
14     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 4: 
A distinctive, capable, and flexible 
built environment that celebrates 
our place in Aotearoa New Zealand 
and the Pacific• Co-create with our stakeholder communities a master estate 
plan that ensures a distinctive, capable and flexible University 
physical environment. 
• Ensure that the distinctiveness of the physical estate is 
reflected and integrated seamlessly into the University’s digital 
estate.Framework for Action
Priority 5: 
A commitment to achieve 
net-zero carbon status and to 
publish meaningful metrics of 
the University’s progress towards 
overall sustainability• Clear commitment to achieve net-zero carbon status by a date 
to be determined.
• Carbon accounting, resource consumption, asset utilisation, 
and SDG measures will be established, tracked, and made 
widely available.
• Informed by kaitiakitanga, develop and implement policy, 
processes and a work plan for ethical and sustainable 
operations including: 
• optimising the utilisation of our assets (particularly 
space);
• a framework for sustainable and ethical procurement.Framework for Action
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     15  
5. People and Culture
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: Live our values and 
purpose• Define and deploy our values in practice.
• Revise HR policy, practice and programmes to support and 
empower staff and leadership to enact values.
• Provide training, development and support to enable staff to 
work in cross-functional, open and collaborative ways.Framework for Action
Priority 2: Develop a future-ready 
workforce• Undertake a detailed university-wide workforce planning 
exercise to inform our current and needed staff profile, 
expertise, work practices and behaviours across all academic 
and professional areas.
• Revise academic and professional reward, recognition, 
performance and development frameworks to align with 
strategic aspirations.
• Co-create a University of Auckland ‘people experience’ that 
responds to the needs and aspirations of current and future staff.
• Review HR policy, practice and programmes to ensure 
supported and smooth workforce evolution to meet current 
and emerging social, physical and digital modes of operation.Capability Development
Priority 3: Build a high performing, 
diverse, inclusive and equitable 
community• Improve data, insights and decision support to ensure 
continuous improvement of staff capability, performance, 
affiliation, diversity, inclusion and equity outcomes.
• Determine and craft changes to recruitment, career entry 
pathways and mentoring initiatives aligned to the needs of 
specific cohorts. 
• Determine opportunities to maximise and showcase the 
distinct professional, social and cultural contributions of staff 
cohorts across all cultures and identities.
• Reassess our criteria for selection, promotion and rewards 
to value service to our communities, collaboration, 
transdisciplinarity and impact.Capability Development
Priority 4: Activate manaakitanga, 
whanaungatanga, and kaitiakitanga 
across our People and Culture 
practices• In the context of the workforce planning exercise and in 
collaboration with Māori community leadership and staff, 
develop signature programmes that facilitate an environment 
that is mana-enhancing for Māori, promote an understanding 
of our place in Aotearoa New Zealand, and enable all our 
people to engage with Māori internally and externally.
• Develop targeted recruitment and career programmes, 
sourcing from our students and iwi/community groups.  Capability Development
Priority 5: Aspirational and inclusive 
leadership• Develop a values-based leadership and leadership training 
framework that: 
• recognises and supports distributed leadership across 
academic and professional areas;
• clearly articulates expectations and provides associated 
development for current and emerging leaders;
• supports succession planning.Framework for Action
16     The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 
The framework includes:
Student, staff and partner feedback
Recognition for excellence in nominated University areas of focus and impact
Demand from prospective students and staff, industry and partners
Breadth, depth and impact of partner relationships
Academic reputation
Recognition for sustainability
Achievement of agreed performance thresholds:
•  Staff capability and capacity
•  Student EFTS recruitment
•  Student satisfaction and performance
• Student success, attraction, retention and employability
•  Research earnings and impact
•  Resource utilisation (carbon, energy, water, waste)
•  Service and facility efficiency and effectiveness
•  Financial performanceMeasures of Success
The implementation of our strategy will be guided by a performance indicator 
framework at institutional, portfolio, faculty and local levels.  
 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030     17  

