1UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Introduction and Strategic Directions ................................................................................................. 2
University Goals ................................................................................................................................... 2
2025 STRATEGIC PLAN GOALS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
Promoting Excellence in Teaching and Learning ............................................................................... 3
Growing Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship ..................................................................... 5
Strengthening Partnerships with Communities across Georgia and around the World ................... 8
2UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
UNIVERSITY GOALS
Based on themes emerging from an extensive data collection process that included benchmarking and input 
from campus and external constituents, the 2025 Strategic Plan identifies specific goals under the umbrella 
of each strategic direction. These university-level goals define areas for focused effort and resource allocation 
by academic and administrative units over the next five years. By developing unit-level operational plans 
that align unit efforts and resources where appropriate with these University goals, the entire University 
community will work together to ensure UGA builds on its recent successes and continues its upward 
trajectory among leading public research universities. INTRODUCTION AND STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS
The University of Georgia is in the midst of a 
remarkable period of growth and development. 
In recent years, the University has reached new 
heights of excellence across its tripartite mission of 
teaching, research, and service. The academic profile 
of entering students has never been stronger, and 
our students are succeeding at record levels across a range of success measures. The research and creative 
activities of our faculty have increased sharply over 
this period as well, resulting in all-time high research 
expenditures and the creation of new companies and 
products to improve our quality of life. 
At the same time, the University’s economic impact 
on our home state of Georgia has expanded and 
deepened, driven by a nexus of public service and 
outreach programs that continues to grow stronger. 
Philanthropic contributions from alumni and 
friends, too, have reached record levels, providing 
critical support for facilities improvements, need-
based scholarships, and endowed faculty chairs and 
professorships, among other priorities. Because 
of these and many other achievements, UGA’s 
reputation as a premiere public research university 
has spread across the nation, while our position on a 
number of key rankings has climbed even higher. 
Against this backdrop, the UGA 2025 Strategic 
Plan sets the course for continued success and 
achievement grounded in three broad, mission-
centered strategic directions: The University of Georgia is in the 
midst of a remarkable period of growth 
and development. In recent years, the 
University has reached new heights of 
excellence across its tripartite mission of 
teaching, research, and service.
1. PROMOTING EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING
2. GROWING RESEARCH, INNOVATION, AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
3. STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIPS WITH COMMUNITIES ACROSS GEORGIA  
    AND AROUND THE WORLD
3UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
PROMOTING EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING
• Expand experiential learning opportunities for all students.
• Enhance training, support, and recognition for all who provide instruction.
• Enhance infrastructure and support for evidence-based teaching methods across the curriculum. 
• Promote academic access and success for all students, with particular consideration for underrepresented, 
rural, first-generation and other underserved students. 
GROWING RESEARCH, INNOVATION, AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
• Provide resources, support, and incentives to nurture a diverse and inclusive culture of excellence in 
research, innovation, and entrepreneurship.
• Promote collaboration among academic units and between these units and external organizations to drive 
interdisciplinary research and commercial activity. 
• Align the human and physical capital of the University to expand the research enterprise and fuel 
innovation and entrepreneurship at all levels of the organization.
• Enhance communications about the University’s strengths in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship 
and the impact of those activities on local, state, national, and international communities.
STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIPS WITH COMMUNITIES ACROSS GEORGIA AND AROUND THE WORLD
• Increase collaborative, community-focused research, scholarship, technical assistance, and training in 
Georgia, across the nation, and world.
• Strengthen UGA’s role in economic development across the State, with a particular emphasis on 
underserved communities.
• Broaden opportunities for students to engage with the diversity of communities in Georgia and across the 
nation and world on locally identified needs and issues.
• Develop high-impact global partnerships that engage and support UGA areas of research and service 
excellence.
• Strengthen communications regarding how UGA sustainably supports and benefits communities through 
research, teaching, and public service.
For each University goal, the the 2025 Strategic Plan identifies key performance indicators that will be monitored 
over the next five years to determine progress toward achieving the goals. Throughout this planning cycle, the 
University will produce an annual summary that documents progress on the plan and identifies areas where 
focused effort is needed for continued improvement. 

4UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
The University of Georgia boasts a world-class 
educational environment designed to promote 
teaching and learning at the highest levels. Today, 
the University’s student completion, retention, and 
career placement rates are among the strongest 
in American public higher education, and UGA 
perennially ranks as one of the nation’s very best 
public universities on measures of educational 
quality, value, and affordability. 
In recent years, the University has launched a 
number of strategic initiatives to build on its 
great strengths in teaching and learning. A new 
experiential learning initiative, for example, is 
giving students hands-on opportunities to connect 
their academic foundations to the world beyond 
the classroom. Hiring initiatives have created 
smaller class sizes and strengthened academic 
advising, and proposals are now moving forward 
to strengthen data literacy and writing across the 
curriculum. Programs such as ALL Georgia, Rise 
Scholars, and the Georgia Commitment Scholarship 
are delivering targeted resources and support to 
students from underserved and underrepresented 
populations to foster a diverse and inclusive 
learning environment. New facilities such as 
the Science Learning Center, Business Learning 
Community, and Delta Hall are providing space 
and technology to implement best practices in 
pedagogy. 
Against this backdrop the 2025 Strategic Plan 
address the question: over the next five years, 
what measures can the University take to reach 
even greater heights of excellence in teaching and 
learning?
First and foremost, the University must provide 
sustained support to ensure the long-term success 
of recently adopted initiatives related to this 
strategic direction. Many of these initiatives (some 
noted in this preamble) were implemented in 
Strategic Direction I: Promoting Excellence in Teaching and Learning2025 STRATEGIC PLAN GOALS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
New facilities such as the Science 
Learning Center, Business Learning 
Community, and Delta Hall are providing 
space and technology to implement 
best practices in pedagogy.
5UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
response to the 2017 Student Learning and Success 
Task Force Report. At the same time, program 
leaders of these initiatives must develop longitudinal 
assessment plans to systematically evaluate their 
impact on student learning and success at UGA. 
Assessment data from these efforts should be used to 
guide program development and resource allocation 
over the next five years. 
Beyond this step, four goals will promote excellence 
in teaching and learning over the next five years: a) 
expanding experiential learning for undergraduate 
and graduate students; b) enhancing support for all 
who provide instruction; c) investing in classroom 
instructional technology; and d) advancing student 
access and success, with continued focus on 
underrepresented and underserved populations. 
In 2016, UGA became the largest public university 
in the nation to require all undergraduate students 
to complete an experiential learning requirement 
prior to graduation. This initiative affirmed the 
transformational power of “learning by doing.” It also 
affirmed the value of essential learning outcomes such 
as collaboration, team work, problem solving, creative 
and entrepreneurial thinking, and global awareness. 
These outcomes will only grow in importance to the 
success of our graduates in the 21st century. 
Therefore, the University must continue to develop 
its experiential learning initiative by increasing 
the number of high-quality experiential learning 
opportunities available to students and by expanding the resources, mentorship, and support students need 
to engage in these opportunities effectively. The first 
strategic goal and its associated key performance 
indicators reflect a continued commitment to 
growing experiential learning within undergraduate 
and graduate education and across the University’s 
schools and colleges.
At the heart of the University’s superior educational 
environment is outstanding classroom instruction, 
and this instruction is delivered by a diverse array of 
talented individuals who occupy a range of position 
types—from professor to lecturer to graduate student, 
to name a few. Strategic goal 1.2 and its associated 
key performance indicators express a commitment to 
investing in the professional development and success 
of all who provide instruction at the University. 
This investment should take the form of training 
opportunities across academic units that promote 
evidence-based teaching and assessment methods—
thinking beyond student evaluations to peer-based 
models that foster mentorship and collaboration 
throughout and across the career stages of our 
instructors. The investment should also support the 
creation of new awards and honors to incentivize 
and recognize excellence and innovation in teaching 
at all levels of the University and across the range of 
instructors.
To promote excellence in teaching and learning 
over the next five years, the University also must 

6UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
continue its focus on enhancing instructional space 
and technology. Strategic goal 1.3 and its associated 
key performance indicators represent this intention. 
This goal seeks to ensure a consistent, high-quality 
classroom and laboratory experience across the 
University that supports the scope of evidence-based 
teaching methods and optimizes learning for all 
students. It also imagines more active learning spaces 
across our campuses that promote interdisciplinary 
learning and foster the integration of curricular 
and co-curricular experiences. As part of this goal, 
the University must also identify a user-friendly 
technology solution that allows instructors to easily 
find and select classroom and laboratory spaces 
aligned with their specific teaching methods and 
learning outcomes. The final goal under this strategic direction concerns 
student access and success, with particular focus 
on underrepresented, rural, first-generation, and 
other underserved populations. Affordability is an 
important component of this goal, and that is why 
the Plan urges the adoption of more open educational 
resources by instructors as well as a continued effort 
to increase need-based scholarship support. Well-
being, too, plays a critical role in student success, 
and this goal encourages units to expand programs 
and resources that foster the holistic development 
of all students, including the domains of mental 
health, wellness and financial literacy. This goal also 
expects further investment from units in programs 
and initiatives that promote a diverse and inclusive 
educational environment for all members of the 
University community. 
STRATEGIC GOAL 1.1: Expand experiential learning opportunities for all students.
KPI 1.1: Transcript-eligible EL opportunities available of each type 
KPI 1.2:  Transcript-eligible EL opportunities completed by UGA students
KPI 1.3:  Number and percentage of students completing two or more transcript-eligible EL opportunities
KPI 1.4:  Number and percentage of students utilizing an EL transcript
KPI 1.5:  Number and total dollar value of scholarships awarded to support student participation in EL 
opportunities
STRATEGIC GOAL 1.2: Enhance training, support, and recognition for all who provide instruction.
KPI 1.6:  Teaching awards available for all instructional roles
KPI 1.7:  Teaching improvement grants available for all instructor types
KPI 1.8:  Graduate student teaching development opportunities 
KPI 1.9:  Instructor development opportunities in active learning 
STRATEGIC GOAL 1.3: Enhance infrastructure and support for evidence-based teaching methods  
across the curriculum. 
KPI 1.9:  Instructor development opportunities in active learning
KPI 1.10:  Development and implementation of solution to assess quantity and quality of classroom and  
instructional space and technology 
KPI 1.11:  Number of active learning classrooms
KPI 1.12:  Courses scheduled in active learning classrooms
KPI 1.13:  Courses taught by faculty from at least two disciplines
7UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
Strategic Direction II: Growing Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship 
World-renowned universities are innovative, 
entrepreneurial institutions that are internationally 
recognized for excellence in research, scholarship, and 
creative activities. The University aspires to become 
a world-renowned institution of higher education by 
solving the grand challenges of our time; becoming a 
more powerful driver of innovation, entrepreneurship, 
and economic development at home and abroad; 
and building its global reputation as a premier public 
research institution.
Over the past five years, the University of Georgia has 
significantly enhanced the research, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship ecosystem of the institution. Total 
research and development expenditures have grown 
by nearly 30 percent to over $450 million; invention 
disclosures, technology transfer agreements, and the 
number of faculty startups are trending upward; and 
recently the University was ranked as number one in 
the nation for sending new products to market. 
The 2025 Strategic Plan recognizes these significant 
steps forward but affirms the urgent need to make 
substantive changes that will transform the research, 
innovation, and entrepreneurial ecosystem of the 
University into that of a world-renowned institution. 
First and foremost, the faculty, staff, and students of the University must nurture a diverse and inclusive 
culture of excellence in research, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship that demands the highest levels 
of commitment, accountability, productivity, and 
impact. A foundation of this cultural evolution is a 
process by which the University identifies its core 
strengths and future directions and devotes the 
resources necessary over the long term to achieve 
impact on a global scale. It also recognizes that a 
diverse and inclusive culture that supports the well-
being of all faculty, staff, and students is required to 
achieve these goals. Strategic goal 2.1 establishes the 
critical importance of culture to growing research, 
innovation, entrepreneurship at UGA and outlines 
key performance indicators that can be tracked at the 
University level to observe our collective progress. 
The University recognizes that solutions to the world’s 
most complex problems require collaboration across 
traditional disciplines. Strategic goal 2.2 challenges 
the University to develop new strategies to empower 
faculty, staff, and students to collaborate across 
disciplinary and internal organizational boundaries. 
It also highlights the vital importance of developing 
more impactful collaborations with external entities 
that expand outreach and impact and accelerate our 
trajectory as a top-tier public research university.     STRATEGIC GOAL 1.4: Promote academic access and success for all students, with particular consideration  
for underrepresented, rural, first-generation and other underserved students.
KPI 1.5:  Number and total dollar value of scholarships awarded to support student participation in EL 
opportunities
KPI 1.14:  Number of need-based scholarships awarded
KPI 1.15:  Number and percentage of zero and low-cost courses 
KPI 1.16:  Savings to students through use of open educational resources
KPI 1.17:  Mental health programs and services available to students reports 
KPI 1.18:  Number of faculty, staff, and students participating in recruitment, engagement, and success 
programs for underrepresented, rural, first-generation, and other underserved students. 
KPI 1.19:  Four-year and six-year completion rates for underrepresented, rural, first-generation, and other 
underserved students
8UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
The third foundational component is capital—
human and physical. Strategic goal 2.3 reflects 
the vital need for the University to prioritize 
the development of a robust and sustainable 
infrastructure that will enable significant increases 
in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. 
The goal also highlights the need for the University 
to invest in strategic initiatives, training and 
professional development, mentorship, wellness 
programs, and awards and recognition while 
paying attention to the demographics of the 
research workforce, given evidence that diverse 
teams are more creative and successful than are 
non-diverse ones. Growing and enhancing graduate 
education and postdoctoral training are recognized 
as top priorities and essential for the University 
to achieve new levels of productivity and impact 
in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. 
In addition, the University must make the 
administrative structure that supports research, 
innovation, and entrepreneurship more proactive, 
efficient, responsive, and nimble. 
Finally, enhanced communications to our 
stakeholders are needed to reinforce the University 
as a place of excellence in research, innovation, 
and entrepreneurship. This effort will also help 
to shift internal and external perceptions of the 
University’s strengths in this area. Strategic goal 
2.4 and its key performance indicators call on 
the University to enhance internal and external 
communications around research, innovation, and entrepreneurship to illustrate how the impact of 
these activities is changing lives in Georgia, across 
our nation, and around the world. 
It is clear that the University of Georgia is 
climbing in the ranks of America’s best public 
research universities. The key to accelerating 
this upward trajectory is to coalesce around this 
strategic direction and make growing research, 
innovation, and entrepreneurship a central 
focus of the institution over the next five years. 
The four goals outlined in this section focus our 
efforts on fundamental changes that will enhance 
the research, innovation, and entrepreneurship 
ecosystem of the University. By nurturing a diverse 
and inclusive culture of excellence, improving 
collaboration, investing in human and physical 
capital, and enhancing communications, the 
University of Georgia will continue to positively 
impact our state, the nation, and world and set 
a course toward the ranks of world-renowned It is clear that the University of Georgia 
is climbing in the ranks of America’s best 
public research universities.

9
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLANSTRATEGIC GOAL 2.1: Provide resources, support, and incentives to nurture a diverse and inclusive culture of 
excellence in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship.
KPI 2.1:  Externally sponsored research expenditures (federal, private sector, public sector) generally and by 
tenure-track faculty members
KPI 2.2:  Invention disclosures generally and by demographic
KPI 2.3:  Technology transfer licenses executed to commercial establishments
KPI 2.4:  External funding for startup company formation
KPI 2.5: Faculty startup project pipeline, generally and by demographic
KPI 2.6:  Research-based products to market
KPI 2.7:  Graduate degrees awarded generally and by demographic
KPI 2.8:  Postdoctoral scholars in training generally and by demographic
KPI 2.9:  National and international research awards granted to faculty  
KPI 2.10:  International rankings
STRATEGIC GOAL 2.2: Promote collaboration among academic units and between these units and external  
organizations to drive interdisciplinary research and commercial activity. 
KPI 2.1:  Externally-sponsored research expenditures (federal, private sector, public sector) generally and by 
tenure track faculty member
KPI 2.3:  Technology transfer licenses executed to commercial establishments
KPI 2.5:  Faculty startup project pipeline, generally and by demographic
KPI 2.6:  Research-based products to market
KPI 2.11:  Sponsored projects involving principal investigators from at least two disciplines 
KPI 2.12:  Publications involving authors from at least two disciplines
KPI 2.13:  Publications involving authors from UGA and at least one other research organization
KPI 2.14:  Sponsored projects partnering UGA and at least one other research organization
KPI 2.15:  Sponsored projects partnering UGA with commercial entities
KPI 2.16:  Externally-sponsored research expenditures among interdisciplinary centers and institutes
KPI 2.17:  Degrees and certificates awarded among interdisciplinary graduate programs
STRATEGIC GOAL 2.3: Align the human and physical capital of the University to expand the research enterprise 
and fuel innovation and entrepreneurship at all levels of the organization.
KPI 2.7:  Graduate degrees awarded generally and by demographic
KPI 2.8:  Postdoctoral scholars in training generally and by demographic
KPI 2.18:  Externally sponsored project expenditures from underrepresented funding sources (federal agencies, 
philanthropic individuals/foundations, and venture capital)
KPI 2.19:  Students conducting research through the Center for Undergraduate Research Opportunities
KPI 2.20:  External doctoral fellowships
KPI 2.21:  Development and implementation of solution to assess quality of the physical spaces where research, 
innovation, and entrepreneurship occur
STRATEGIC GOAL 2.4:  Enhance communications about the University’s strengths in research, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship and the impact of those activities on local, state, national, and international communities.
KPI 2.10:  International rankings
KPI 2.22:  Earned media about UGA research, innovation, and entrepreneurship
KPI 2.23:  Stories produced about high impact research, innovation, and entrepreneurship 
10
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLANThe University of Georgia is incredibly proud of its 
mission as a land-grant and sea-grant institution, 
committed to the people of the state of Georgia and 
to addressing the grand challenges of our time on a 
national and global scale. This commitment is evident 
in the numerous partnerships and collaborations in 
which UGA faculty, students, and staff engage on 
a daily basis with communities near and far. These 
engagements have a tangible and positive effect, with 
an estimated $6.3 billion economic impact on the 
state of Georgia alone.
The impact of the University of Georgia’s schools, 
colleges, and administrative units reaches every 
corner of the state. UGA Extension, for example, 
serves 2.5 million people annually, with a presence in 
every county in Georgia. With programs such as 4-H, 
soil and water testing services, and pesticide safety 
education, Extension professionals provide education, 
expertise, and support for Georgia’s citizens. In 2018, 
the Warnell School of Forestry and Natural Resources, 
in collaboration with the Odum School of Ecology 
and the College of Engineering, as well as several 
environmental federal agencies, was named a Georgia 
Clean Water Hero for its work on a dam removal 
project that opened up the Middle Oconee River for 
fish and boaters. 
Public Service and Outreach units play a leading role 
serving the state as well. Model programs such as 
the Archway Partnership connect the University of 
Georgia with communities to address critical, locally 
identified needs and opportunities. The University 
has articulated Great Commitments to changing lives 
in broad areas of engagement that support “Healthier 
People, A More Secure Future, and Stronger 
Communities.” These impactful partnerships and 
collaborations are not isolated in specific units but are 
found across the institution in every school, college, 
and administrative unit.
With this deep commitment to outreach and 
service, the 2025 Strategic Plan seeks to build on the many accomplishments in this area by asking 
how the University can strengthen partnerships with 
communities in Georgia and around the world over 
the next five years.
Community partnerships are a core attribute of 
the University of Georgia. These partnerships are 
reciprocal relationships between UGA and entities 
such as local governments, agencies, school districts, 
businesses, and other geographic or functional groups, 
with close cooperation among all parties in working 
to meet an identified goal. The interface between 
the University and its community partners creates 
opportunities for impactful research, education, 
programing, and other initiatives. As the state land-
grant, flagship institution, UGA exists in part to foster 
healthy, prosperous, and stable communities.
To expand effective community partnerships, certain 
principles must underpin the work.
Partnerships should be purposeful and intentional, 
tackling challenges with relevance to Georgia and 
the world. Partnership relationships should be 
inclusive, grounded in mutual respect and benefit 
to all parties, and should be sustainable so that the 
benefit continues even if UGA is no longer an active 
participant in the community. Finally, it is important 
that there is strong communication and ease of 
access so that communities understand and can 
access partnership opportunities within UGA and the 
University truly hears and understands the needs and 
interests of our community partners. 
From these principles, five goals emerged to 
strengthen community partnerships over the next 
five years: a) increase collaborative, focused research 
and scholarship in Georgia, across the nation, 
and around the world; b) strengthen UGA’s role 
in economic development across the state, with a 
particular emphasis on underserved communities; c) 
broaden opportunities for students to engage with the 
diversity of communities in Georgia and across the 
nation and the world on locally identified needs and Strategic Direction III: Strengthening Partnerships with Communities across Georgia  
and around the World
11UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
issues; d) develop high-impact global partnerships 
that engage and support UGA areas of research and 
service excellence; and e) strengthen communications 
regarding how UGA sustainably supports and benefits 
communities through research, teaching, and public 
service.
The expertise of University of Georgia faculty, 
students, and staff is world-renowned, and 
opportunities to collaborate with communities both 
locally and around the world serve to strengthen 
research and scholarship. Goal 3.1 seeks to deepen 
these exchanges by encouraging more projects where 
communities are true partners in the intellectual 
enterprise and the needs of our community partners 
are met and fully incorporated into research and 
subsequent scholarship.
As noted earlier, with a $6.3 billion impact on 
Georgia, UGA has a major role in economic 
development across the state. In order to 
strengthen this role, the KPIs associated with goal 
3.2 disaggregate these data by county. Looking 
specifically at underserved communities throughout 
the state provides a clear sense of how economic 
development operates in those communities of 
highest need. Implicit in this approach is the 
understanding that the institution will identify gaps 
and opportunities that have not been explored, 
thereby strengthening its impact in these critical 
areas.
UGA students are valuable agents in the commitment 
to community partnerships. In the classroom and in 
the lab, through co-curricular and extra-curricular 
projects and organizations, as well as field study in 
Georgia and around the world, students are making a 
difference working with communities to find solutions 
to challenges large and small. Therefore, providing 
opportunities and support for students to engage in 
this space is vital. Goal 3.3 calls upon the University to 
broaden experiential learning opportunities while also 
providing financial resources that will enable students 
to explore study abroad, internships, and other 
experiences that have affiliated costs. Service-learning is a great example of the breadth of 
experiential learning that occurs, as service-learning 
coursework is available in all 17 schools and colleges, 
some online courses, study abroad programs, and on 
the extended campuses. Units across the institution 
must be committed to growing these and other 
opportunities for students to serve communities in 
substantive and impactful ways. 
As a world-class institution of higher education, the 
University of Georgia is deeply embedded in global 
partnerships. Goal 3.4 encourages UGA and its units 
to continue developing impactful relationships that 
align with research and service strengths. This is an 
area where the ability to address grand challenges 
is amplified as researchers work with communities 
to address global issues. This work is reflected in 
the sponsored support given to projects, mutual 
academic agreements, and faculty traveling to engage 
global partners, as well as subsequent co-authored 
publications. These engagements also elevate the 
international reputation of the institution, attracting 
some of the world’s greatest talent to the University.
The final goal in the area of strengthening 
partnerships focuses on communications regarding 
the work that is being done to support communities 
through research, teaching, and public service. It is 
important that communities view the University as The expertise of University of Georgia 
faculty, students, and staff is world-
renowned, and opportunities to 
collaborate with communities both locally 
and around the world serve to strengthen 
research and scholarship.
12UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLAN
an open and accessible potential partner. In order 
to expand access and engagement, the institution 
must effectively communicate the success and 
value of community partnerships. This includes 
bringing traffic to existing online sources as well as 
building out stories and having those stories picked up by external media. KPIs measuring sponsored 
funding for community partnerships will allow the 
University to measure the effect of a strengthened 
communications and media presence as new 
partnerships are built.

13
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLANSTRATEGIC GOAL 3.1:  Increase collaborative, community-focused research, scholarship, technical assistance, 
and training in Georgia, across the nation, and world.
KPI 3.1:  Sponsored expenditures for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and by  
regions in the state 
KPI 3.2:  Sponsored award funding for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and by  
regions in the state  
KPI 3.3:  Sponsored proposals submitted for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and  
by regions in the state
KPI 3.4:  Publications with community partners as co-authors and/or major contributors
STRATEGIC GOAL 3.2:  Strengthen UGA’s role in economic development across the state, with a particular 
emphasis on underserved communities.
KPI 3.5:  Annual economic impact on the state of Georgia and on the counties of Georgia
KPI 3.6:  Sponsored expenditures for community partnerships by county 
KPI 3.7:  Sponsored award funding for community partnerships by county 
KPI 3.8:  Sponsored proposals submitted for community partnerships by county
KPI 3.9:  New businesses started with support of UGA 
KPI 3.10:  New jobs created with support of UGA 
STRATEGIC GOAL 3.3:   Broaden opportunities for students to engage with the diversity of communities in Georgia 
and across the nation and world on locally identified needs and issues. 
KPI 3.11:  Transcript-eligible EL service opportunities 
KPI 3.12:  Transcript-eligible EL service opportunities completed by UGA students
KPI 3.13:  Number and total dollar value of scholarships awarded to support student participation in service EL 
opportunities
KPI 3.14: Participation in service-learning courses and opportunities
KPI 3.15:  Transcript-eligible international experiential learning opportunities completed by students
STRATEGIC GOAL 3.4:   Develop high-impact global partnerships that engage and support UGA areas of research 
and service excellence.
KPI 3.15:  Transcript-eligible international experiential learning opportunities completed by students
KPI 3.16:  Sponsored expenditures for global collaboration projects
KPI 3:17:  Sponsored award funding for global collaboration projects
KPI 3.18:  Sponsored proposals submitted for global collaboration projects
KPI 3.19:  Publications co-authored with colleagues at international institutions 
KPI 3.20:  International faculty travel to engage global partners
KPI 3.21:  Mutual academic agreements for global partnerships
14
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 2025 STRATEGIC PLANSTRATEGIC GOAL 3.5:   Strengthen communications regarding how UGA sustainably supports and benefits 
communities through research, teaching, and public service.
KPI 3.1:  Sponsored expenditures for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and by regions  
in the state
KPI 3.2:  Sponsored award funding for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and by  
regions in the state   
KPI 3.3:  Sponsored proposals submitted for community partnerships generally, globally, nationally, and by  
regions in the state 
KPI 3.22:  Page views on the University online news center (news.uga.edu)
KPI 3.23:  Stories produced about UGA’s community engagement 
KPI 3.24:  Earned media focused on UGA’s community engagement 
