Tokyo Tech strategic plan 2018 -2023  
At the center of innovation, realizing a better future through the power of science and 
technology  
 
Tokyo Tech stands at the center of innovation, striving to  create lasting impact and a brighter 
future with the power of science and technology. This requires not only responding to the 
shifts in population, industry, and economic structures within Japan, but also addressing 
environmental issues, economic dispari ties, and other global -scale problems that affect us all.  
The Institute seeks to identify and offer solutions to these issues through its outstanding 
education and research, and the new knowledge and exceptional professionals that result 
from its activitie s. To provide the world with real solutions, Tokyo Tech must continue to 
offer an optimal learning experience during which the best emerging scientists and engineers 
thrive, coupled with an encouraging research environment where tomorrow's innovations 
flourish. In its relentless pursuit of excellence, Tokyo Tech continues to set ambitious goals 
and implement a variety of bold changes — something it has been doing for the better part of 
the 21st century.  
Changes in governance have accelerated effective means  of resource allocation throughout 
the Institute. They have also enabled management to execute decisions more rapidly while 
maintaining the highest esteem for faculty members directly involved in education and 
research. The recent reform of the education s ystem — a result of direct, open dialogue 
between internal stakeholders — has inspired positive change among students. International 
research activities and efforts to open up new fields of research are more vibrant than ever.  
Other results must be given t ime to materialize. As we do this, however, the environment 
surrounding higher education and the Institute continues to change swiftly, and we must be 

ready to adapt and evolve. Flexibility is precisely what allows us to scrutinize the present and 
gives bi rth to energy that propels us to new discoveries.  
When Tokyo Tech became a national university corporation in 2004, it set the long -term goal 
of becoming "a world -leading science and technology university." While working towards 
this goal under competitive  circumstances, Tokyo Tech's students, faculty, staff, and alumni 
united to hold numerous workshops to discuss and debate what its past and present members 
represent — who we truly are. Based on these discussions, the Institute announced Tokyo 
Tech 2030 , a statement encapsulating the identity shared by its members.  
In March 2018, Tokyo Tech was selected by the Japanese government to guide the nation 
into the fut ure as a designated national university . To build on these accomplishments and 
reinforce the Institute's values, the 2018 Tokyo Tech Commitments  were announced in 
October of that year.  
Now, after Institute -wide discussions involving fac ulty, staff, and students, Team Tokyo 
Tech has devised a strategic plan to help guide the Institute towards its shared vision for the 
next five years. The four strategic goals in this plan highlight aspects from previously 
implemented reforms that require revisiting, but also summarizes focal points that demand 
attention amidst constantly changing circumstances, both now and in the future. This plan is 
interwoven with our spirit to create impact through science and technology, and our shared 
belief that Tok yo Tech is "dedicated to creating a better future."  
Kazuya Masu  
President, Tokyo Tech  
Four strategic goals  
Enhance creativity through diversity  
 
To inspire the birth of new ideas and creations, to supply society with dreams and new value, 
to create a buzz, Tokyo Tech facilitates occasions. Occasion s are what we make of them. 
Conversing with diverse individuals in creative spaces about a broad range of knowledge, 
academic disciplines, and social issues enhances the outcome of these occasions. By 

encouraging the pursuit of individual passions, c onstantly diversifying the student and staff 
population, and heightening sensitivity to diversity through the liberal arts, Tokyo Tech 
strives to open up new dimensions by making each occasion productive. In an inclusive 
environment, Tokyo Tech staff and s tudents engage regularly with external constituents to 
jointly create an image of a brighter, better future. The goal is a virtuous cycle where each 
shared occasion sparks the next burst of creativity.  
Facilitate progressive student -centered learning  
 
By providing all students with a specialized technical education supplemented by a novel 
liberal arts component, Tokyo Tech not only prepares it s students for the world, but also 
develops highly skilled professionals with the drive to lead and change it for the better. The 
Institute has designed a framework to help students gain a clear understanding of the level of 
achievement expected of them, d evise an independent study plan, monitor their own learning 
path, and visualize their results, particularly through research. This process allows them to 
recognize the significance of a Tokyo Tech education while envisioning their own future. 
Entrepreneurs hip is supported actively through programs and makerspaces that help students 
initiate new markets with their creative ideas and cutting -edge technologies. The Institute's 
doctoral programs, which place great importance on leadership, are supported by gene rous 
scholarships and are open to mature professionals seeking to elevate their abilities. Tokyo 
Tech openly welcomes ambitious students who are ready to change the world for the better.  
Create impact through robust research  

 
The buzz at Tokyo Tech stems from our research, which aims at the discovery of new 
knowledge and the invention of new technologies that shape the world. To facilitate this, the 
Institute provides an environment where researc hers, whether working individually or in 
groups, can conduct their projects in a determined and enjoyable manner. By transferring our 
findings to society, Tokyo Tech contributes to the realization of a better, more exciting future 
for everyone. Proactive r esearch collaborations with industry ensure that the Institute plays an 
important, responsible role in creating the foundations of tomorrow. Through its dedication to 
basic research, the Institute shares with the public the beauty of research, and aims to 
contribute to a society where all are invited to enjoy and evaluate the progress of science and 
technology.  
Pursue institutional effectiveness and financial stability  
 
Tokyo Tech strives to main tain the highest level of confidence and support from the public. 
In its attempt to significantly strengthen its management base, the Institute is acutely aware of 
the investments received from the public, and works tirelessly to return this investment 
manyfold. Through efficient management and operations, Tokyo Tech aims to generate the 
highest level of added value for all stakeholders. The Institute's executives, deans, and 
directors carefully scrutinize the costs of education and research, clarify their effects, evaluate 

the return on investment to individual stakeholders, and openly share this information with 
the public. Particularly at a time when government funding for national and public 
universities is declining, all Tokyo Tech members are encourage d to consider carefully the 
support they receive, and to envision how their education and research activities will create 
lasting impact.  
 
An alternate future  
The Tokyo Tech 2030 statement, consisting of spirit and action, formulated in a series of 
workshops by members of the Tokyo Tech community  
Tokyo Tech 2030  
2018 Tokyo Tech Commitments  
Appreciating dive rsity 
Attract a faculty, staff, and student population that represents diversity in the broadest sense 
of the word, and embrace this diversity  
Collaborative challenges  
Actively collaborate, and at times engage in friendly competition, in order to boldly ta ke on 
new challenges and create heightened societal impact  
Decisive action  
Take advantage of new education, research, and governance structures in order to increase 
and respond to global expectations through agile decision making and action  
 

