Community 
and Connection2020–2025
STRATEGIC PLAN
 
 STRATEGIC PLAN
2020 — 2025
Community  
and Connection
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
Vision, Values and Mission 
Introduction 
Towards 2025: Community 
and Connection
9 Goals
Beyond 2025
Implementation
Appendix4
10
12 
24
44
48
52Contents
3
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Vision, Values  
and Mission
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
4
Vision, Values  
and Mission
5
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
We are a globally 
connected community 
of learning, research, 
and scholarship, 
inspiring generations 
to meet the challenges 
of the future.Our Vision
6 Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
Inquisitive 
Pioneering 
Responsible 
Inclusive 
Collaborative  Our Values
7
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin8CIVIC ACTION
Through our teaching, research 
and public engagement, we 
courageously advance the 
cause of a pluralistic, just and 
sustainable society.
ORGANISATION
We foster an effective 
and flexible organisation, 
which values all members 
of our community.RESEARCH
Pursued at the frontiers and 
intersections of disciplines, 
our research benefits our 
students, Ireland, and the 
world.
EDUCATION
We challenge our 
students to think 
independently, 
communicate effectively,
act responsibly, and 
develop continuously, 
equipping them for lives 
of active citizenship.Our CORE Mission
9
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin10This Strategic Plan will shape the future of this university to benefit Irish 
society and the wider world. The plan’s title, ‘Community and Connection’,  
reflects our conviction that, in an increasingly interdependent world, we 
need to work together more intensely and in new ways to address the 
formidable challenges facing us.
On behalf of all students, staff, and alumni, I thank those who have  
created this plan, including many colleagues and external advisors who 
were members of the various working groups. The strategic planning 
process was led by Chris Morash, Vice-Provost/Chief Academic Officer,  
until July 2019, and then by his successor, Jürgen Barkhoff, who brought 
the process to a successful conclusion. I thank them both for their skill  
and commitment. Geraldine Ruane, Chief Operating Officer, and  
Antoinette Quinn, Director of Human Resources, brought an essential 
emphasis on the role of professional staff with the ‘One Trinity Community’ 
concept. The Chief Financial Officer, Peter Reynolds, and his team 
completed very important financial underpinnings of the plan on foot of 
which it was adopted by the Board in December 2019. By approving this 
Strategic Plan, the Board of the College takes the responsibility for  
ensuring it is implemented. 
With this Strategic Plan, we aim to consolidate our achievements in several 
areas: participation and access, undergraduate curriculum reform, global 
relations and international student recruitment, research impact and the 
prioritisation of research themes, and financial sustainability. 
This Strategic Plan also strikes out in new directions in response to 
new challenges. Chief among these challenges are those brought on by 
globalisation, technology, and environmental change. This Strategic
Plan responds by proposing the E3 Institute in Engineering, Environment
and Emerging Technologies; the development of an Innovation Campus, 
Trinity East, at Grand Canal Quay; the creation of the Trinity St James’s 
Cancer Institute; and the refurbishment of the Old Library and creation of a
Research Collections Study Centre, alongside other initiatives that
include a ‘New Generations’ programme of academic staff recruitment  
and student scholarships. 
It is also important that we address the global trend in reduced exchequer 
funding of higher education and research; reductions have happened 
in other countries too, though the reductions in Ireland have been more 
rapid than elsewhere in Europe. I believe Trinity has managed this financial 
situation well by the sustained efforts of the whole College community. 
However, there has been a cost in terms of global competitiveness 
manifested in the rankings. The key to overcoming this is in persuading 
the government to increase public funding for investigator-led research 
not only for the long-term benefits it brings to society but because it is the 
well-spring of innovation and a successful knowledge economy. We will Introduction
11
Strategic Plan 2020-2025also continue our success in winning research funding from the European 
Commission programmes.
How we respond to challenges is conditioned by the values we hold. 
This new Strategic Plan articulates Trinity’s values crisply in five words: 
inquisitive, pioneering, responsible, inclusive, and collaborative. Our vision 
continues to emphasise being a university of global consequence, but is 
now strengthened by better articulating what that means, including the 
aim of ‘Inspiring Generations’ to meet the challenges of the future through 
research and scholarship. I welcome these changes to the values and 
vision because they strengthen Trinity’s mission as a research university.
Being a research university comes with great responsibilities. It means 
a commitment, first and foremost, to the value of new knowledge — a 
passion for creating it, and passion for sharing it with others through 
publication via various means, including Open Access, where the fruits of 
research and scholarship are disseminated to benefit society, and have 
impact on public policy and public life. Being a research university also 
means embodying the idea that universities are a partnership in learning 
between staff and students. And most importantly, research universities 
stand up to those who say we have had enough of experts and thereby call 
into question the validity of using knowledge to advance the cause of a 
pluralistic, just and sustainable society.
I look forward to working with the whole College community and all its 
supporters and collaborators to make the ambitious goals of this Strategic 
Plan a reality.
Yours sincerely,
Patrick Prendergast
PROVOST & PRESIDENT
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin12Towards 2025: 
Commun ity  
and Connection
13
Strategic Plan 2020-2025Towards 2025: 
Commun ity  
and Connection
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin14Towards 2025:  
Community  
and ConnectionThere is a small, unassuming building, tucked away on the grounds 
of Birr Castle, technically part of the Trinity campus, that can provide 
us with a way of understanding the place of Trinity College Dublin as 
Ireland’s leading research university today. Its origin can be traced back 
to 1845 when William Parsons (Trinity graduate and later Chancellor of 
the university) built the largest telescope in the world, the ‘Leviathan of 
Parsonstown’ , on the grounds of his castle. It is from here that a small 
community of ground-breaking scholars unravelled the spiral structure 
of galaxies and traced the moons of Jupiter. The Leviathan of today is the 
LOFAR radio telescope. It is made up of a digital network of antennae, 
spread across the entire continent of Europe. A LOFAR node sits by 
the ruins of the old Leviathan at Birr Castle, and Trinity’s innocuous 
little building services it. And herein lies its message to our university 
community in the 21st century: growth and progress today are not about 
getting bigger, they are about being more connected. 
We in Trinity know this. Inhabiting a 44-acre heritage campus in a compact, 
low-rise city centre is very different from operating a campus on a green 
field site, where expansion means filling the open spaces. The main Trinity 
campus, clustered around five squares and two playing fields, is a space in 
which every square metre matters. Living and working on a campus such 
as ours is a constant reminder of the lesson that resonates in so many 
ways around our planet today. In a finite world, growth and development 
can no longer be about moving into uninhabited territories, as if there 
will always be more land; today, development is about connecting, about 
living responsibly with the resources we have and will bequeath to future 
generations. For the Trinity community, being part of a connected world 
will involve understanding our global relationships and responsibilities in 
a new way, not least in our pursuit of the most ambitious philanthropic 
campaign in Irish history, ‘Inspiring Generations’ , which will mobilise our 
140,000 alumni and our supporters worldwide to raise €400m to take the 
university to its next stage of development. 
Our three priorities are as follows:
Priority 1: Diversity and the student experience
Thinking about Trinity in this way raises questions about the kind of 
university we strive to be and the optimum composition of our student 
body over the next five years and beyond. Having one of the best-educated 
workforces in the world has played no small part in Ireland’s dramatic 
transition to an innovation economy over the past thirty years. We will 
need to maintain this success story in the years from 2020 to 2025 with 
an expected increase of around 12% in the number of students enrolled 
in Irish higher education by 2025. In Trinity, we will play our part to meet 
that demand and, based on a programme-by-programme analysis, we 
are projecting that our student population will grow from just over 18,000 
15
Strategic Plan 2020-2025in 2018 to approximately 21,500 in 2025. Such growth will be carefully 
managed across the different categories of students with a policy of 
resourced, strategic development which positions us to explore ever more 
creative options to meet the changing demands of an evolving student 
demographic. Above all, we are determined to ensure that such growth 
will not compromise the students’ learning and access for all students, 
undergraduate and postgraduates alike, to individual attention and top 
researchers, to personal guidance and first-rate supervision. To that end, 
we have an ambitious plan to hire new and additional academic staff 
across the faculties in key areas to bring down the overall student to 
staff ratio from its current high levels to 16:1. 
In a national context, where government policy values internationalisation, 
we are proud that our sustained efforts to bring students from around 
the world to Trinity play a substantial role in the €386m that international 
students contribute as export income to the Irish economy on an annual 
basis. However, in terms of what internationalisation means for the student 
from Singapore or from Sligo in the seminar room in Dublin, there is an 
aspect that needs to be better articulated that is not purely economic. 
Having a diverse mix of students learning together speaks strongly to our 
deeply-held value of being an inclusive community, and we think about 
socio-economic diversity and geographical diversity as part of the same 
strategic goal. So, for instance, our Trinity Access Programmes will 
be instrumental in increasing the percentage of our undergraduate 
students from non-traditional backgrounds in higher education to 
25% by 2025, joining the more than 30% of students from outside the EU 
who will be part of our student population at that point. At the same time, 
we will, over the next few years, be developing with partner universities 
around Europe, one of the pioneering new European universities, CHARM-
EU, in which students can build their degree by moving seamlessly 
between five different institutions. Fostering a diverse, globally-connected 
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin16student community is equally rooted in our core values of inclusivity and 
collaboration. Today, Trinity’s identity as a globalised university maps on to 
the place of Ireland as one of the most globalised countries in the world of 
the 21st century.
Our student population will be changing in other ways, as the percentage 
of postgraduate students on campus will exceed 30%, moving us closer 
to comparable research universities in Europe and across the world. To 
prepare for this change, we will, over the next five years, fundamentally 
renew our postgraduate experience, both in our taught programmes and 
for our research students, and will develop a suite of new programmes 
linked to pioneering research initiatives. 
The evolution of Trinity as a research university will also be a response to 
the recognition that the nature of work is changing radically, perhaps more 
radically than at any time in recent human history. An OECD report from 
2018, The Future of Education and Skills: Education 2030, puts it like this: 
“We must prepare our students for jobs that have not yet been created, 
for technologies that have not yet been invented, to solve problems that 
have not yet been anticipated.” At an undergraduate level, by 2020, the 
Trinity Education Project will have completed a major renewal of our 
undergraduate curriculum, instilling the graduate attributes of thinking 
independently, communicating effectively, acting responsibly, and 
developing continuously – precisely those future-proofing qualities that 
graduates will require. We will continue the pedagogical renewal of the 
Trinity Education Project with our students as partners in learning 
and will also prepare our students for this new world of work with 
ambitious new programmes such as those associated with our E3 
(Engineering, Environment and Emerging Technologies) initiative, which, 
from 2022, will be housed in a new kind of physical learning environment, 
the Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry. Likewise, Tangent, Trinity’s 
Ideas Workspace, will continue to ensure that we are among the leading 
universities in Europe for producing entrepreneurs, following through on 
the Irish government’s National Strategy for Higher Education to 2030, which 
pointed to the universities as the seedbed of Irish innovation.
Our strategic response to the needs of a rapidly changing world of work 
has two further cornerstones. Firstly, we will meet a manifest and growing 
demand among alumni, life-long learners and our staff by offering more 
short-cycle courses and by exploring micro-credentialing strategies 
over the next few years that will bring new types of learners into the 
university. Secondly, we will develop and implement a comprehensive 
digital learning strategy which will put in place policies and structures 
to create an agile and adaptive core for a new technologically advanced 
learning environment.
17
Strategic Plan 2020-2025Priority 2: Research for impact and sustainability
As Ireland’s leading research organisation, we position “research 
at the heart of the university” and will “stand up for research” , 
as articulated in our recent Living Research Excellence Strategy .
Over the next five years, we will be taking a leadership role nationally 
and internationally to ensure that the research environment allows 
transformative research to thrive, for the benefit of society. We will 
be campaigning for better funding for investigator-led research in the 
sciences, social sciences and in the arts and humanities; sufficient research 
overheads from research funders to make excellent research sustainable; 
more Ph.D. scholarships and more funding opportunities for individual 
principal investigators. We will make the case for diverse and nuanced 
ways of measuring research excellence and impact, particularly in the 
arts and humanities, where investment in staff will continue to develop 
one of Trinity’s traditional strengths. Finally, we will significantly increase 
our partnerships with industry. In this respect, Trinity will be central to 
delivering on the promise of the national Innovation 2020 strategy, which 
takes as its keynote a vision focusing on excellence, talent and impact in 
research to make Ireland a global innovation leader. 
The major capital projects that will dominate the next five years signal 
our intent to be a research university of global consequence. Each 
development has been carefully deliberated on to make sure it will allow 
us to use our space more efficiently, weaving the campus more deeply 
into the fabric of a sustainable city. The university’s Old Library lies at the 
heart of the campus and attracts over one million visitors annually; it is 
also home to one of the world’s great collections. Over the next five years, 
work will begin on a major conservation project for the Old Library, 
enabled by philanthropy, which will include a new Research Collections 
Study Centre that will greatly facilitate researchers’ opportunity to perform 
ground-breaking scholarship in the humanities and social sciences. The Board of Trinity College Dublin
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin18
19
Strategic Plan 2020-2025To the east of the main campus, we will be part of a €1bn project to
create the Trinity East innovation campus at Grand Canal Quay, a project  
of national strategic significance aligned to the infrastructural vision of 
Project Ireland 2040. The Trinity East campus will be one of the 
cornerstones of this remapping of Dublin. To the west of the main 
campus, in partnership with St James’s Hospital, we will be developing a 
Comprehensive Cancer Centre as a flagship for excellence in clinical care, 
research and education in oncology. Dublin is already a vibrant city with a 
global presence, and these major developments continue our engagement 
with our neighbours, with Dublin city, and with the Irish government, to 
make Dublin one of the world’s major centres of innovation and creativity 
in the 21st century.
Underlying all of this activity is a deeply-felt sense that, as members of a 
university community, we have a unique privilege in being able to shape 
the future for the better. In order to give this ethical core a point of focus 
over the next five years, we have set ourselves a grand challenge: 
we will align ourselves to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
significantly increasing the extent to which our research and teaching 
aligns with the aim of achieving a healthy and sustainable planet. The 
E3 initiative, in both its teaching and research phases, addresses these 
challenges directly; tackling the UN Sustainable Development Goals will, 
however, require sustained collaborative research across all disciplines 
that involves the Sciences, Health Sciences, Social Sciences, and Arts and 
Humanities together. Beyond research and teaching, however, we are 
deeply committed to sustainability in terms of how we live as a community, 
and we will continue to find new and creative ways to make our world 
fairer, healthier and more sustainable, whether it is in our adoption of 
sustainable commuting and working practices, or how we invest. 
Priority 3: Community and effective organisation
In recognising that the profile of the students will considerably change 
over the next five years, becoming more diverse and learning in new 
ways, we must ensure that our staffing, infrastructure and processes 
are matched to a changing student population. Trinity has always 
been distinguished by the strong sense of belonging it fosters among its 
students. Trinity students are citizens of a community, participating in its 
governance and contributing their own strategic plan - published by the 
TCD Students’ Union for 2019-2024 it promises to hold the university to 
account for commitments made to enhance the student experience. This 
is to be welcomed by all. The special relationship between students and 
the institution of which they are a part is kept alive by features of student 
life such as the Tutor system (with its roots in the 18th century), the vibrant 
life of student societies, and the active involvement of students in the 
governance of the university at all levels. However, further developing  
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin20the student experience will require investment. To ensure that the 
residential nature of the College is maintained, we will be building 250 
more student rooms over the next five years and work continuously to 
enhance the campus as a place that is open to the students for formal  
and informal learning.
The relationships between academic staff and students only constitute  
one axis in the network of interdependencies that make up a university. 
We will adopt the principle of ‘one Trinity community’ in which all feel 
ownership and in which all are heard and valued, and put in place 
practices and policies to make it a reality, fostering values of mutual 
respect and collaborative working for everyone in the College. Central to 
this initiative will be finding new ways to create a more transparent, 
flexible and effective organisation. This will entail increasing inter-
operability between our support systems and enhancing effectiveness 
overall, so that academic staff will be able to focus more on their core 
mission in education and research. 
Our commitment as an organisation to responsible self-governance means 
accountability to our diverse stakeholders, including students, staff, alumni, 
donors, funders, government and the local community. We will review 
our governance structures to ensure they enhance our capacity to deliver 
on our strategy and ambition and to support the effective and successful 
management of the university.
Our strong commitment to values of inclusivity and equality also means 
that we will unrelentingly pursue our ambitious targets towards full  
gender equality under the Athena SWAN programme and the HEA National 
Review of Gender Equality in Higher Education Institutions (2016). We will 
develop a robust Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy which will drive 
these principles. Our strong sense of ethics and societal responsibility 
also manifests itself in a widely-shared commitment to embed, enable  
and articulate civic action in research, in teaching, and in our 
institutional culture. 
This may only be one aspect of our mission that informs the multifaceted 
life of a complex organisation, but it also crystallises our vision of who we 
are: “We are a globally connected community of research, scholarship and 
learning, inspiring generations to meet the challenges of the future.”
21 Strategic Plan 2020-20251. We will foster an ever more diverse and inclusive  
student community.
2. We will support a transformative student experience.
3. We will practice next-generation teaching and learning.
4. We will stand up for research, its quality and impact.
5. We will shape our organisation and focus research around the 
challenge of achieving a sustainable and healthy planet.
6. We will enrich and expand our global network. 
7. We will develop and inhabit our space responsibly.
8. We will be one Trinity community.
9. We will secure the financial basis for our future development. Our Cross-cutting Goals:
The three priorities articulated previously are realised by the following nine cross-cutting goals:
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin22These goals are referred to as ‘cross-cutting’ because no one goal relates 
purely to a single aspect of our mission. Instead, the plan recognises that, 
in a complex organisation made up of people that are both internally 
and externally interconnected in a myriad of ways, each goal will develop 
multiple aspects of the mission. Each goal is supported by a number of 
actions and targets, which are each only mentioned once under the goals, 
though most of them address more than one aspect of our mission and 
therefore also relate to other goals. To make this interdependence visible, 
this Strategic Plan links each target to our CORE mission.
One of our actions, for instance, is our commitment to undertake 
important conservation work on the Old Library. With the creation of a 
Research Collections Study Centre being part of this, it will develop our 
research goals and also contribute to research-led teaching, while at the 
same time, it will require infrastructural work, financial planning, and 
policy initiatives, and the new Exhibition Centre will form part of our 
engagement with wider society. Therefore, this project relates to all four 
aspects of our mission: Civic action , Organisation , Research  and 
Education . To make this interconnection visible in the plan, the action 
is therefore represented by .
These nine interconnected and cross-cutting goals are the result of a 
process of consultation and strategic planning across the entire institution. 
Strategic planning is very much an ongoing process and, as such, an 
intrinsic part of life in Trinity, driving our decisions and actions at every 
level. In the period leading up to this new plan, we have approved no 
fewer than nineteen individual strategic initiatives that will take shape in 
the five-year period from 2020 to 2025. These range, for example, from our 
commitment to revitalise our administration and professional services 
under START , to the Trinity Business School Development Plan which 
enabled the opening of our new €80m Business School in 2019, to the 
€400m ‘Inspiring Generations’ Philanthropic Campaign also launched in 
2019. These individual initiatives, with their actions, targets and underlying 
business cases, have all combined to help inform and shape this Strategic 
Plan. They are referenced using acronyms at the end of each action or 
target, linking into the appendix which provides fuller details of these 
initiatives and those involved in their implementation.
CIVIC ACTION
Through our teaching, research 
and public engagement, we 
courageously advance the 
cause of a pluralistic, just and 
sustainable society.
ORGANISATION
We foster an effective 
and flexible organisation, 
which values all members 
of our community.RESEARCH
Pursued at the frontiers and 
intersections of disciplines, 
our research benefits our 
students, Ireland, and the 
world.
EDUCATION
We challenge our 
students to think 
independently, 
communicate effectively,
act responsibly, and 
develop continuously, 
equipping them for lives 
of active citizenship.Our CORE Mission
23
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
9 Goals
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
24
9 Goals
25
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 1:  
We will foster 
an ever more 
diverse and 
inclusive student 
community.Trinity is committed to a policy of managed and resourced growth, 
prioritising quality of education, access, internationalisation and student 
experience. By 2025, our student body will be approximately 21,500 
students. We are an inclusive community that values diversity and is 
committed to providing adequate supports mapping on to that diversity. 
We recognise that diversity takes many forms. We are committed to 
widening access to university across the social spectrum in Ireland and 
will intensify the pursuit for greater equity of access by strengthening 
our Trinity Access Programmes. At the same time, we will continue to 
attract the best students from around the globe in a manner that is 
commensurate with our identity as a European university making a 
global impact in research and scholarship. By the same measure, we 
take seriously our responsibilities as an Irish university, with a duty to 
educate the next generations from the whole island of Ireland, north 
and south. We will also significantly increase our modular offerings and 
short-term programmes, thus catering for the growing needs of continuous 
professional development, equipping life-long learners for a rapidly 
changing world of work. We do all this because we recognise, as educators, 
that learning is made richer when the voices heard around the campus 
speak in many idioms.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
26
To achieve this goal, we will:
1.1  Pursue strategies to ensure that by 2025, over 30% of our students will come from 
outside of Ireland, up from our 2016/17 baseline of 24%. [GRS3]
1.2  Approve a new undergraduate admissions strategy by 2021 to spur on excellence by 
increasing the socio-economic and geographical diversity of the Irish students in the 
university. [SL] 
1.3  More than double to 90 the students annually progressing from Further Education into 
programmes in Trinity by 2025, up from 40 in the 2016/17 baseline figures. [TAP]
1.4  Have had, by 2023, 100 school engagements under Trinity Access 21, with 20 of these 
being in-depth partnership (Leader schools) over 6 years and 80 of these being 1 to 
3-year engagements in the Schools of Distinction award scheme (Network schools). 
[TAP; TA21] 
1.5  Increase access and ensure inclusivity. Students who have entered Trinity via  
the Trinity Access Programmes or the national HEAR and DARE schemes and other  
under-represented groups will make up 25% of our undergraduate population. [AP]
1.6  Ensure our diverse student community has access to state-of-the-art support with 
broader and more diverse catering offerings, including venues for preparing their own 
food. [GRS3; D&I; TCDSU] 
1.7  Embed a culture of equality, inclusion, respect and dignity across all aspects of our 
operations to provide a foundation for the flourishing of all our students regardless  
of their background through instituting a robust Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 
strategy. [D&I]
1.8 Expand the range of scholarships for the student body enabled by philanthropy. [TDA] 
1.9 Engage the wider university community in empowering students with disabilities. [D&I] 
1.10  Develop and enact strategies, policies and procedures to enable more diverse and 
more flexible learning and programme delivery in the areas of continuous  
professional development and micro-credentialing, including a policy on prior 
accredited learning. [SL; AR]
27
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 2:
We will support 
a transformative 
student 
experience.Students are formally recognised in Trinity as partners in the governance 
of the university through membership of Board and Council, and through 
the Student Partnership Agreement. We work together as active partners 
to further develop the Trinity student experience and to ensure that it 
supports the development of the full potential of our students. The unique 
atmosphere and compact footprint of our main campus is central to the 
creation of a vibrant student community. All throughout Trinity’s history,  
it has been a community in which formative student experiences take  
place as much outside as inside the seminar room, lecture hall or 
laboratory. At all levels, teaching in Trinity is research-led, and students 
are enabled to develop their research skills and encouraged to drive 
their own research agenda, be it with the final year capstone project as 
the culmination of their undergraduate studies, or through the various 
student publications supported by the university. To ensure that the 
learning experience of Trinity’s students continues to be based on close 
interaction with their lecturers and their research, we are committed to 
improving student-staff ratios by combining a policy of regulated growth in 
student numbers across the different categories of students with a major 
investment in staffing.
We will also support formal and informal learning in its various forms 
with improved student services. As the campus population grows, there is 
increasing pressure on space, and so we will take steps to enhance both 
the learning spaces and the informal spaces in which so much student 
life takes place. More pressingly, Trinity’s location in one of the most 
vibrant parts of a dynamic capital city means that affordable student 
accommodation will continue to be a challenge in the years ahead. We will 
meet that challenge by not only building more student rooms, but also by 
diversifying our residential options with an eye to affordability. All of these 
actions are enablers for the over-riding objective: being a Trinity student 
must be a transformative experience that enables our students to embark 
on successful careers and lead fulfilled lives as engaged citizens of the 
world, equipped with the graduate attributes to think independently, to 
communicate effectively, to act responsibly and to develop continuously. 
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
28
To achieve this goal, we will:
2.1  Reduce the student:staff ratio to 16:1 by 2025, from a 2017/18 baseline of 18:1.  
[VPO; FSD; DR]
2.2  Bring the undergraduate experience closer to the research postgraduate experience 
through the mainstreaming of Capstone Projects across all programmes by 2020. [TEP]
2.3  Fundamentally re-evaluate the student experience for both postgraduate taught and 
postgraduate research students and ensure that their bespoke needs are met. [DGS]
2.4  Grow the quality and capacity of student services in line with the growth of the student 
body and increase health and well-being services for students. [CSD]
2.5  Enhance the student experience through increased engagement with career and 
personal development activities. [TEP]
2.6  Develop the Tutorial system for undergraduate students, increasing the number of 
College Tutors and reducing the size of their student chambers. [ST]
2.7  Mainstream seamless online module registration, enrolment and subsequent integrated 
information for all students. [TEP; CSD]
2.8  Open more casual student spaces and informal learning spaces to support increased 
student time on campus by, for example, renovating the 1937 Reading Room as a 
dedicated full access postgraduate student space. [ES; LS]
2.9  Open Printing House Square in 2021, providing 250 more student beds and a student 
welfare centre. [ES; TCDSU]
2.10  Work with the Students’ Union to augment the Accommodation Advisory Service.  
[DS; TCDSU]
2.11  Introduce robust procedures for addressing issues that arise from student  
surveys, including the Irish Survey of Student Engagement and International  
Student Barometer. [DS]
29
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
In Trinity, our teaching is research-led in the fullest sense; our curriculum  
at all levels is continuously being reshaped by the new knowledge we 
create. At the undergraduate level, renewal of the Trinity education 
developed over the 2014-19 Strategic Plan will complete its project 
phase in 2020, after which the work of continuous pedagogical renewal 
will continue as an ongoing part of the life of the university. Over the 
course of this Strategic Plan, we will focus on enhancing the experience 
of our postgraduate students and will fundamentally re-evaluate and 
renew our approach to structures, programmes and the pedagogy of 
our postgraduate taught courses and to our models of supervision for 
postgraduate research students. Conservative projections show that our 
student population will consist of more than 30% postgraduate students 
by 2025, and in the medium term, we are heading for a student mix of 
approximately two-thirds undergraduate to one-third postgraduate. As 
Ireland’s leading research university, we believe this to be an appropriate 
goal, and that we should also copperfasten this by becoming Ireland’s 
leading graduate school. 
For all our students, the emerging challenges of new disruptive 
technologies to the future of work and learning give an even greater 
relevance and urgency to the continuous development of our teaching 
and learning strategies. Globally, it is becoming increasingly clear that 
as new technologies impact on ever-widening fields of work, it is more 
essential than ever before that we become adept not only at mastering 
those technologies, but also at those things machines will never do as 
well as humans such as thinking creatively, developing genuine and 
empathetic relationships with fellow human beings, and entrepreneurship 
in its widest sense. In such a time of rapid and radical technological 
innovation, teaching and learning itself must continue to embrace 
emerging technologies, and we will do this by developing a comprehensive 
new digital learning strategy that will provide a framework for using a full 
spectrum of digital learning tools, making them part of the mainstream 
pedagogical practice of the university.Goal 3:  
We will practice 
next-generation 
teaching and 
learning.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
30
To achieve this goal, we will:
3.1  Embed and mainstream the innovations of the Trinity Education Project (including 
Electives, Pathways, Capstone Projects, and the supporting structures of a fixed 
timetable). [TEP]
3.2  Strengthen our Partners in Learning approach with our students and develop a new 
Curriculum Hub to provide a centre for continuous pedagogical renewal. [TEP; TT&L]
3.3  Increase the number of postgraduate students and pursue strategies that will see 
Trinity’s student profile shift to more than 30% postgraduate by 2025. [LSDP; GRS3]
3.4  Meet this changing student profile, within the lifetime of this Strategic Plan, by 
instituting a major and systemic renewal of all facets of postgraduate education. [DGS]
3.5  Develop a suite of new postgraduate taught modules and courses across schools and 
faculties. [DGS]
3.6 Fundamentally renew our structured Ph.D. programme. [DGS]
3.7  Develop substantial new capacity for postgraduate research space in our ambitious 
Trinity @ Grand Canal Quay development on the TTEC site. [T@GCQ] 
3.8 Implement a full-spectrum digital learning strategy by 2022. [DTS]
3.9  Offer, through Tangent, our student entrepreneurship centre, new specialised 
entrepreneurship modules for postgraduate students. [TG]
3.10 Mentor, through Tangent, 3,500 students in new venture ideas by 2022. [TG]
3.11  Develop new support technologies and an enhanced Learning Management System by 
2023 supporting our learners whether on or off-campus. [DTS] 
3.12  Increase, as part of the Continuous Professional Development Framework for 
academic staff, the number of graduates from the Special Purpose Certificate in 
Academic Practice by 30%. [TT&L]
3.13  Deepen Trinity’s strategic alliance with Marino Institute of Education. [RG]
3.14 Develop Trinity’s strategic relationship with the Royal Irish Academy of Music. [RG]
3.15 Implement procedures to recognise civically-engaged teaching. [RG]
3.16 Welcome students to at least ten new Trinity Joint Honors programmes by 2022. [T JH] 
31
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 4:  
We will stand 
up for research, 
its quality and 
impact. As one of Europe’s leading research universities, we place research at the 
heart of what we do. We are driven by a passion for research and scholarship; 
it shapes our teaching and is the engine of our engagement with society. 
This means understanding our teaching mission as research-led at all levels, 
ensuring that the quality of supervision offered to all students is cutting edge 
and reflects best practice, and implementing the values of our Research 
Charter and the actions of our Living Research Excellence Strategy , thereby 
consolidating our place as Ireland’s leading university. 
We take pride in the excellence and reputation of the research and 
scholarship of academic staff, postdoctoral researchers and research 
students across all three faculties (Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences; 
Engineering, Mathematics and Science; and Health Sciences) and value 
the diversity of research and scholarship across the disciplines and in all 
its forms. The ground-breaking research of all members of our research 
community stretches across the full gambit of research activity, disciplinary 
and interdisciplinary, individual and collaborative, basic and applied, 
covering the whole spectrum of the innovation chain. 
Our five Trinity Research Institutes and nineteen collaborative Research 
Themes have a special role within our research eco-system, advancing 
interdisciplinary and collaborative research, attracting and housing 
externally funded large scale projects, contributing to addressing the great 
challenges of our time and articulating the value and reach of our research 
to academic and non-academic audiences. Our structured Ph.D. programme 
seeks to provide our students with a top-quality doctoral education in which 
they receive excellent supervision and generic as well as discipline-specific 
skills training. This will ensure their research is of the highest possible quality 
and that they have the tools to equip them for successful careers. 
A central element of our ambition to establish Dublin as a major global
centre for research and innovation are our plans to develop a new Trinity  
East innovation campus at Grand Canal Quay, where this €1bn research  
and innovation campus will become the heart of an Innovation District that 
will have the potential to propel Dublin into the top 20 innovation cities in 
the world. 
Our reputation as a university flows from research, and from our firm focus 
on quality and impact. Over the course of this Strategic Plan, we will deliver 
flagship research initiatives of scale that bring together and harness the 
individual expertise across the university to tackle key societal challenges of 
our time.
To give research and its people its central place in our strategies, we will 
nurture and reward ingenuity, creativity and ambition, generate the resources 
we need, work closely with national funding bodies such as SFI, HRB and IRC, 
support research staff and continue to improve the research environment 
to make Trinity a better place in which to do research. We will defend 
institutional autonomy and academic freedom as the foundations on which 
excellence in research rests.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
32
To achieve this goal, we will:
4.1  Increase academic staff by approximately 200 to enhance research excellence across 
the university. [DR; FAHSS; FEMS; FHS]
4.2 Target strategic hires in key areas of research excellence and impact. [LRES]
4.3  Continuously improve our processes around hiring and retention of high calibre staff 
so we can ensure that we continue to attract and keep the very best researchers and 
research support personnel. [LRES]
4.4  Secure philanthropic support through the Inspiring Generations Campaign for key 
research positions. [TDA]
4.5  Institute a major and systemic renewal of all aspects of doctoral education in Trinity 
to ensure the distinctive character of that education as a holistic concept in which 
doctoral students receive a diversity of cutting-edge skills training to complement their 
research. [DGS] 
4.6  Provide structured and sustained support to Early Career Researchers such as 
postdoctoral and research fellows and work to integrate them more fully into the life of 
the campus. [LRES] 
4.7  Become a world leader in how we communicate research and its impact to our multiple 
audiences. [LRES; PAC]
4.8  Host public research events around the campus or virtually, including more than 1,000 
in the 2020 to 2025 period in the Trinity Long Room Hub. [TLRH]
4.9  Systematically present policy-relevant research to decision-makers through a host of 
seminars and workshops. [LRES]
4.10  Leverage Trinity’s central location in an EU capital city as a focus for social  
science research and outreach activities, bringing research impact and an evidence 
base to vital policy debates on growth, equality ethics and Ireland’s position in a 
changing world. [DR; FAHSS]
4.11  Further develop and support academic consultancy across the disciplines via 
CONSUL T Trinity. [CT]
4.12 Lead on Open Scholarship and promote Open Access publication. [LRES; LS] 
4.13  Create a new Research Collections Study Centre in the Old Library, opening up the 
unique and distinct collections to postgraduate research and visiting researchers in 
new ways. [ES; LS]
4.14 Put in place an Industry Advisory Board by 2021. [TR&I]
4.15  Consolidate the position of our Trinity Research Institutes and collaborate with SFI 
Centres to optimise mutual opportunities through AMBER, ADAPT and CONNECT . 
[LRES] 
4.16  Stand up for research and its people through systematic lobbying for increased 
national funding for investigator-led research across the disciplines, increased 
stipends for funded Ph.D. researchers, a balanced research ecosystem and a more 
sustainable rate of overhead return on research. [LRES]
33
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 5: 
We will shape 
our organisation 
and focus 
research around 
the challenge 
of achieving a 
sustainable and 
healthy planet.As a university community, we are deeply committed to furthering 
the cause of a just, pluralistic, inclusive and sustainable society. Our 
ranking at number 28 in the world in the THE Impact Rankings 2019 
testifies to our successes in this regard. We bring together a powerful 
concentration of specialist abilities and we take seriously the very real 
societal responsibilities this brings. Engagement with society is a defining 
hallmark of our identity, and research that tackles the great challenges 
of our time is at the heart of our research mission. Equally, the graduate 
attributes which inform our approach to teaching at all levels prepare our 
students to lead their lives as responsible global citizens. Bringing these 
different perspectives together, we commit ourselves to finding ways 
in which as many members of the university as possible can contribute 
to furthering the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This will involve 
identifying, and bringing together, research being carried out across the 
university that touches on questions of sustainability and healthy living. 
The UN SDGs include not only climate action and addressing poverty and 
hunger, but also relate to education, gender equality, peace and justice, 
and sustainable cities. In our schools, research institutes and research 
themes, we will bring together and highlight teaching, research and 
scholarship that maps on to the seventeen UN SDGs. Strategic initiatives 
such as the proposed E3 research institute in Engineering, Environment 
and Emerging Technologies at our new Trinity East innovation campus at 
Grand Canal Quay, or the development of programmes to be housed in the 
Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry, will help to equip new generations 
to tackle the grand challenge of sustainability. Likewise, our pivotal role 
in the Global Brain Health Institute places us at the forefront of research 
on healthy ageing. Beyond such specific projects, however, we will align 
ourselves with the UN SDGs in the ways in which we conduct our lives as 
members of the College community.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
34
To achieve this goal, we will:
5.1  Commit to strong ethical leadership in all we do, from research to staff development 
and throughout the activities of our entire university community. [DR; RG]
5.2  Create a UN Sustainable Development Goal Hub using our research data to monitor 
research in all fields linked to the UN SDGs. [LRES; SST] 
5.3  By July 2021, have set targets for the significant reduction of our carbon footprint.  
[DR; RG]
5.4  Provide leadership in sustainability through improvements in energy use, reduction in 
waste including single use plastics, promoting areas such as sustainable transport and 
biodiversity, and ensuring all new buildings are based on sustainability principles. [SST]
5.5  Support and conduct civically-engaged research thereby increasing the number of 
research outputs connected to UN SDGs by 20% by 2025. [LRES; SST]
5.6  Promote civically-engaged research across the university and host public engagement 
events relating to the UN SDGs in our schools and research institutes, highlighting to the 
wider public and policy makers the impact of our work. [LRES] 
5.7 Introduce new funded Ph.D. scholarships in line with UN SDGs. [LRES, PC]
5.8  Build the teaching programmes and research projects of the CHARM-EU alliance around 
the grand challenge of “Reconciling Humanity with the Planet” . [LRES; GRS3]
5.9 Achieve an Athena SWAN Silver award by 2025. [AS]
5.10  Integrate the SAGE Charter for gender equality into our policies and practices by  
2021. [AS]
5.11  Contribute, as part of the Global Brain Health Institute, to the goal of having 125 
Atlantic Fellows for Equity in Brain Health working globally by 2022 to create a zealous, 
creative community of leaders combining to reduce inequities in the field of brain 
health. [GBHI]
35
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 6:  
We will enrich 
and expand our 
global network.In a world in which connectivity is the new growth, Trinity will grow as a 
university - not primarily by getting bigger, but by becoming ever more 
connected in an interdependent world. We will do this by playing our role 
as a proactive member of a world community of researchers, scholars and 
educators, strengthening our global network of research and educational 
links. In 2019, the university launched its third Global Relations Strategy 
(GRS3). Where earlier Global Relations strategies focussed on increasing 
the numbers of non-EU students, the new strategy takes a more holistic 
approach, developing our links with our European neighbours, including 
the UK, as well as deepening our relationships with partners in the 
rest of the world. In the European context, we will further develop our 
involvement with the League of European Research Universities (LERU)  
and the Coimbra Group of European Universities. As a member of  
CHARM-EU, one of the pioneering first-round university alliances supported 
by EU funding, we will develop and test an entirely novel concept of a 
European University, offering challenge-based, multidisciplinary and 
collaborative degrees, with students moving flexibly across all member 
institutions. We will increase the number of dual and joint degrees with top 
partner institutions from around the world based on our highly successful 
model partnership with Columbia University. At home, we will increase 
mobility for staff and students at all levels and embed internationalisation 
deeper in the curriculum and in campus life, ensuring that all our students 
are better prepared for lives and careers as global citizens. Our new  
Trinity East innovation campus at Grand Canal Quay will actively engage 
researchers with both domestic and international companies, and we  
have ambitious targets to increase the numbers of international companies 
with whom we collaborate. To achieve all of this, we will continue to 
collaborate with our network of alumni to strengthen our partnerships 
around the world. 
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
36
To achieve this goal, we will:
6.1  Nurture the lifelong relationship between the College and its alumni community 
through innovative programmes and engagement. [TDA]
6.2  Engage our global network of alumni and supporters in raising €400m in philanthropic 
funding and 150,000 volunteer hours as part of the Inspiring Generations Campaign.  
[PC; TDA]
6.3  By 2025, ensure that between 40 and 45% of the graduating undergraduate cohort will 
have had an international experience as part of their programme. [GRS3]
6.4  Develop teaching and learning initiatives to embed an international perspective into the 
curriculum for all students and across all disciplines. [TT&L]
6.5  Enter into at least one new dual, one new joint and three new articulation programmes 
per Faculty by 2025. [GRS3]
6.6 Deliver a model for the future European University through CHARM-EU. [LRES; GRS3]
6.7 Intensify our engagement with LERU and the Coimbra Group. [LRES; GRS3] 
6.8  Further diversify the international student body with an additional 750 non-EU students, 
bringing their overall number to 3,750 by 2025. [GRS3; E3; LS; BSDP; SOM]
6.9  Increase the number of non-EU postgraduate taught students by between 35 and 38%. 
[GRS3]
6.10  Increase the number of students on our International Foundation Programme with our 
partner institution, Marino Institute of Education, to 120 by 2025. [GRS3]
6.11  Play a key role, as part of Dublin’s new Innovation District, in transforming Dublin into 
the top 20 of innovation cities globally by 2030. [T@GCQ]
6.12  Add at least one new industry collaborating company from a new country per year. 
[IS2]
6.13 Build a new web presence, based on a Content Management System. [DTS] 
37
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Trinity has one of the world’s most beautiful campuses. We inhabit an 
historic, residential campus, located in the heart of a vibrant and fast-
changing city. This unique space is an intrinsic part of Trinity’s distinctive 
quality that creates a unique student experience and draws more than a 
million visitors annually. This comes with a responsibility to look after it, 
maximise its potential in a sustainable manner, develop the relationship 
with our neighbours and integrate it more into the fabric of the city. 
Working and living within the bounds of a city-centre campus means 
understanding our space better and reshaping it so that we can use it 
more efficiently. As stewards of some remarkable historic buildings, we 
will begin work to conserve our landmark Old Library, as well as restoring 
the oldest building on campus, the Rubrics, which dates from the 1690s. At 
the same time, we are building for the future. The next five-year period will 
commence with the opening of substantial new student accommodation 
at Printing House Square. With the support of our donors, we will build an 
innovative new teaching space, the Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry, 
and begin work both on a new Law School and on the Trinity St. James’s 
Cancer Institute at our partner St. James’s Hospital’s site. The next five 
years will also be the period in which we will lay the groundwork for our 
second campus, Trinity East at Grand Canal Quay, a transformational 
development project for Ireland’s future.Goal 7: 
We will develop 
and inhabit 
our space 
responsibly.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
38
To achieve this goal, we will:
7.1  Launch, by 2022, the masterplan for Trinity @ Grand Canal Quay, part of the Grand 
Canal Innovation District initiative, providing infrastructure for new research linking 
Engineering, Environment and Emerging Technologies. [E3; T@GCQ]
7.2  Complete work on a new generation teaching space enabled by philanthropy, the Martin 
Naughton E3 Learning Foundry, in 2023, providing a home for the E3 project, uniting 
the Schools of Computer Science and Statistics, Engineering, and Natural Sciences. This 
building will achieve Well Building standards and BREEAM excellence. [E3; ES]
7.3  Develop plans for a new Law School with new and enhanced learning and research 
facilities. [LSDP]
7.4  Complete architectural plans for and begin the conservation and redevelopment of 
the Old Library, including a new Research Collections Study Centre and new Exhibition 
Visitor Centre. [ES; LS]
7.5  Develop plans for the new collaborative off-site Collections Resource Centre,  
thereby improving the environment for our collections and enabling the re-imagination/
re-configuration of our contemporary library spaces. [ES; LS]
7.6  Refurbish, by early 2023, the campus’s oldest building, the Rubrics, and Chief Stewards 
House, providing new student and staff accommodation and a research space for 
Fellows Emeriti. [ES]
7.7 Begin developing the new Trinity St. James’s Cancer Institute. [TSJCI]
7.8 Redevelop our sports facilities and infrastructure at Iveagh Grounds. [ES; TCDSU]
7.9  Commit to a programme of continual improvement and uniformity of standards of 
our learning and teaching spaces, facilitated by improved data around the use and 
condition of the spaces ensuring more effective management for a better student 
experience. [TEP; CSD] 
7.10 Encourage sustainable transport and biodiverse rich areas on campus. [SST] 
7.11  Ensure that our built structures accommodate staff and students in an inclusive 
manner. [D&I; ES] 
39
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Goal 8:  
We will be 
one Trinity 
community.The university community in Trinity is driven by shared convictions and 
ambitions, a strong sense of belonging and an ethos of collegiality. It 
functions as a complex web of relationships, not only embracing academic 
staff, professional staff and students, but also reaching outwards to our 
global network of 140,000 alumni worldwide, our partners in industry, 
in other universities around Ireland and the world, and our generous 
benefactors. Community in this sense also means recognising that the 
campus embraces not only the main city-centre campus, but includes 
colleagues working in St. James’s Hospital, and in Tallaght University 
Hospital, as well as in offices and associated programmes stretching from 
Belfast to Columbia University to Singapore Institute of Technology. As with 
any complex set of relationships, there is the daily challenge of keeping 
everyone informed and involved. More fundamentally, there is the need 
to renew constantly the recognition that all members of the community 
together contribute towards achieving the work of the university. We 
can do this by finding new ways to make our means of working fairer for 
all. This includes a fundamental commitment to promote equality and 
inclusivity in all that we do. We will be more transparent, more agile, and 
more effective, and we will make our decision-making processes simpler. 
However, and perhaps most importantly, it means affirming that we put 
people – students, academic staff, professional staff, alumni, friends – at 
the core of what we do in a community founded on mutual respect and 
sharing a common purpose.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
40
To achieve this goal, we will:
8.1  Develop communication channels that will enable connection and contribution by 
all members of our community, in recognition of the need and desire of all staff to be 
involved in the university community. [PAC; HR]
8.2  Make equality, diversity and inclusion a cornerstone of our ethos and practice across all 
aspects of College life by instituting a robust EDI strategy and action plan. [D&I]
8.3 Ensure that at least 40% of Chair Professors will be female in Trinity by 2025. [AS]
8.4  Create a new internal College intranet and continue to develop our internal 
communications. [PAC]
8.5 Recognise and reward staff achievement in fair and transparent processes. [HR]
8.6  Invest in the development of staff at all levels in the university with programmes such as 
Career Frameworks and Leadership Development. [HR]
8.7  Encourage the physical, mental and social health of the whole College community 
through implementation of the Healthy Trinity initiative. [HT]
8.8  Strengthen connections to our alumni community, building our alumni network 
worldwide and engaging our alumni to achieve 150,000 volunteer hours by 2025 as part 
of our Inspiring Generations Campaign. [TDA; GRS3; PC]
8.9 Ensure that our decision-making is transparent, flexible and effective. [PO; SO]
8.10  Explore ways of making Heads of School more fully integrated into the university’s 
decision-making processes. [VPO; SO]
8.11  Re-evaluate our approach to postdoctoral researchers in the campus community and 
work to integrate them more fully into the life of the campus. [LRES] 
8.12  Create opportunities for all categories of staff to enrol in available modules across  
the university for continuous professional development and micro-credentialing.  
[HR; DTS; VPO]
8.13  Continue to strengthen our data and information tools to enable collaboration and 
strategic decision-making, especially in the area of diversity and inclusion data. [DTS]
8.14  Establish a Working Group on Family Leaves and Flexible Working and monitor the 
take-up of maternity, paternity and parental leave. [AS] 
8.15 Implement fully the Core Meeting Hours Policy. [AS]
8.16  Further improve the status of the Irish language in College life through services, 
training and events in the spirit of the Official Languages Act (2003). [SO]
8.17  Implement a new CRM (Customer Relations Management) system by 2022, allowing us 
to work more effectively with those from beyond the College community. [DTS]
8.18  Embed and foster a culture of philanthropy within Trinity and lay foundations for 
future philanthropic campaigns. [TDA] 
41
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
The university’s financial position has improved significantly over the last 
five years due mainly to successful strategies for generating non-exchequer 
revenue. However, there are still major challenges in achieving the income 
required for a globally-competitive research university. Significant additional 
funding will be required from the Government to address the shortfall in 
public funding per student which has reduced significantly in recent years 
and to meet anticipated growth in demographic and participation rates. 
Exchequer income has declined from 70% of the university’s total income in 
2008 to 40% in 2018 and the financial outlook for the university will continue 
to remain uncertain unless the Government commits to long-term funding 
or else lifts the cap on undergraduate student fees. Furthermore, a globally-
competitive research university needs a national R&D funding environment 
where its academic staff can compete for research contracts: Ireland’s public 
funding of research is very low by international standards and has fallen by 
21% since 2008. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, we remain committed to the university’s 
mission to deliver research of international impact, and to a student 
experience underpinned by quality teaching and access to the best  
student services. We will continue to invest strategically in world class 
infrastructure and facilities which will underpin our growth and drive future 
success. We have invested over €180m over the last three years and currently 
have over €300m in capital projects in the pipeline. These investments, 
funded mainly by philanthropic support and long-term financing from our 
partners in the European Investment Bank, will deliver financial returns in 
line with carefully planned and managed business cases. In addition, we 
are also committed to delivering longer term strategic investments such as 
the new Trinity East at Grand Canal Quay innovation campus on the TTEC 
site and the Old Library refurbishment. We will continue to focus on our 
core strategy of growing non- exchequer income across four key engines – 
research income, global relations, commercial revenues, and philanthropic 
income. We will also continue to focus strongly on improving efficiency in 
our operations and support functions and reducing operating costs through 
investment in best-in-class IT systems and processes.
As a core element of this Strategic Plan, we are committed to a step change 
in improving the quality of the student experience in the university. We are 
committed to prioritising the financial resources needed to significantly 
reduce the student:staff ratio and we will carefully manage growth in student 
numbers in the various categories of undergraduate, postgraduate taught 
and postgraduate research students to ensure that the quality of student 
experience is maintained as the core objective.
In support of the Strategic Plan, we have developed a comprehensive  
5-year financial model which includes full costing of strategic initiatives and 
provides a fully integrated view of income, costs, investments, financing 
and cashflows for five years to 2025. This financial model is a key enabler in 
facilitating the development of scenarios for growth and investment and  
for the assessment of key sensitivities and risks in the plan, as our 5-year 
financial plan will inevitably need to be adapted for economic and other 
factors over time.Goal 9:  
We will secure the 
financial basis 
for our future 
development.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
42
To enable achievement of the goals of this Strategic Plan, we will:
9.1  Have funding, including philanthropy, in place for investment of €300m over the next 
five years in new infrastructure projects set out in the Strategic Plan, including the 
Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry and student accommodation facilities in Printing 
House Square while continuing to develop a new Law School. We are also committed to 
investing in longer term strategic projects such as the new Trinity East (formerly Trinity 
@ Grand Canal Quay) and the Old Library refurbishment and are currently evaluating 
funding options to support these projects. [ES; E3; FSD; LSDP; T@GCQ; TDA]
9.2  Achieve financial sustainability through annual net surplus growth (before unrealised 
gains and losses) to 1% of income with targeted EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, 
Depreciation, Amortisation) growth from 3% to 8% of income by 2025 to cover annual 
costs associated with our capital investment programme. [FSD]
9.3  Grow student numbers (which underpin income growth), in line with the Global 
Relations Strategy 3, which includes targeted growth in postgraduate student numbers 
from 28% to 32% of total student base over five years and growth in non-EU student 
numbers from 15% to 18% by 2025. [GRS3]
9.4  Grow the value of philanthropy to the university as a method of diversifying our income 
stream. [TDA]
9.5  Continue to plan for a reduction in the university’s reliance on exchequer income and 
anticipate an increase in non-exchequer income from 60% in 2019 to 63% in 2025. [FSD]
9.6  Achieve a reduction in the student:staff ratio, from 18:1 in 2019 to 16:1 by 2025, and 
ensure that financial resources are prioritised towards delivering this goal.  
[VPO; FSD; DR]
9.7  Ensure net assets of the university are, following the impact of Covid-19, restored to and 
maintained at a minimum level of €800m over the period of the plan. [FSD]
9.8  Continue to ensure that financing structures are optimised over the period of the plan 
and that we will fully comply with our banking covenants, maintaining headroom on 
minimum cash levels, gearing ratios and debt servicing capability. [FSD]
9.9  Continue to be flexible and adaptable to economic conditions in managing the  
finances of the university, and meeting opportunities to enhance the academic mission 
as they arise. [FSD; VPO; CSD; DR]
43
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Beyond 2025
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
44
45
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Beyond 2025When this Strategic Plan comes to a conclusion in 2025, Trinity College 
Dublin will be 433 years old and the five years of this plan will have 
guided it through just over 1% of the university’s existence. Such a long-
term institutional perspective is a useful vantage point from which to 
contextualise the significance of planning for a five-year horizon.
We might ask ourselves, what will have changed in Trinity by 2025? In some 
respects, it may look as if little has changed. One fine autumn morning, 
Front Square will suddenly be full of students; they will join societies, play 
sports, read, talk, learn and explore. One later morning in the spring, Front 
Square again will be full as the names of the new Scholars and Fellows 
are read from the steps of the Public Theatre. In that sense, the life of the 
university community in 2025 will go on much as it has done for decades – 
indeed, centuries – past.
But look closer, and the differences become evident. More of the students 
in 2025 will be from around the world, more will be from schools that 
would not have had historically strong records of progression to university 
and they will be connected to one another digitally to an ever-greater 
extent. Our students will inhabit a campus with a lower carbon footprint, 
where much more attention is paid to living sustainably, from our new 
buildings to more varied vegetarian offerings and much more in between.
More of those students will also be postgraduates as Trinity consolidates 
its position as Ireland’s leading research university. The signs of our pivotal 
role in pioneering 21st century teaching and research will be visible in 
other ways as well. Only a few minutes away from Front Square to the 
east, a second research and innovation campus will be rising on Grand 
Canal Quay as part of a plan extending until at least 2030. This major 
development will be at the heart of a new Innovation District, itself part of 
an infrastructural initiative extending out to 2040. In this new Innovation 
District, both Irish and international companies, established and starting 
up, will be part of a growing information economy that will connect 
outwards, to the rest of Ireland, and to a world in which geography will 
matter less and less, as technologies reconfigure our relationship to space 
in ways that we cannot even fully predict at a distance of five years.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
46
To the west, on the campus of St. James’s Hospital, a new Cancer Institute 
will be taking shape. And, at the very heart of our historic campus, the 
Old Library will be undergoing a significant renovation, creating a new 
Research Collections Study Centre. Any one of these developments would 
be of significance in the long-term history of the university, as would be the 
Trinity Business School that opened in 2019 just before the current plan 
was launched, or Printing House Square which will have opened in 2020, or 
the Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry which will have been completed 
in 2022. In terms of the university’s history, then, the period of the current 
plan will be of historic significance, a time in which its fabric was remade. 
Many of these developments will have been enabled by philanthropy. 
Another legacy of our Inspiring Generations Campaign will be a dynamic 
network of committed alumni and friends worldwide.
Nothing, however, is pre-ordained. Without control of the ‘four engines’ of 
revenue generation described in Goal 9, and if public funding for research 
maintains its low levels, and if the Horizon Europe budget does not meet 
expectations, a dystopian future is possible. Traditions will offer little 
solace to us if we drop in the rankings for lack of research funding, and 
if we cannot meet rising student demand because of reduced national 
education budgets, or if we end up living in a fractured Europe in a time 
when the effects of climate change have come home to roost. All this is to 
say we will need a fair wind behind us to implement this plan, but at least 
we are ready to seize the day.
Invisible changes will arguably be the most profound. These will continue 
to accelerate past 2025. To take one example: the Library of the past could 
only grow by adding more books. The Library of the 21st century grows not 
only by connecting to digital sources of all kinds, but by creating its own 
digital collections, which in turn connect outwards. This can stand as an 
image of fresh knowledge of all kinds, which will increasingly grow not 
simply by being added to, but by connecting with thought-leaders and 
innovators around the planet, creating a new kind of learning community. 
In such a world, it will become ever more important that Ireland has a 
globally-connected research university.
47
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin48
Implementation
49
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
ImplementationStrategic planning should not be something that an institution only 
undertakes once every five years; it should be an iterative process, and a 
road leading to a new shared commitment across the community is as 
important as the final destination. A five-year plan is a road map; however, 
as with following any map, one never really knows what lies ahead, and 
reaching the destination is as much about having the agility and the 
knowledge to take a detour if conditions change.
 
Trinity’s Strategic Plan 2020-2025 Community and Connection is 
underpinned by multiple project planning documents, each with its own 
business case, each already approved by the relevant College bodies, or  
currently going through the approval process. These documents outline 
the individual governance and management structures for their respective 
projects, as well as financial, student number, staffing and other relevant 
projections for the duration of the strategy. So, for instance, our Global 
Relations Strategy, GRS3, contains strategy, analysis, student recruitment 
projections, detailed financial calculations and a staffing plan. These  
will be reviewed regularly by the relevant university bodies, and, in each 
case, there is scope to take corrective action should actual results turn  
out to differ from projections in one direction or another. And this is true  
for all of the various plans that feed into the Strategic Plan 2020 —2025 
Community and Connection.
In order to capture the inter-connections among these plans and the new 
plans that some of the goals in this plan bring into being, the Strategic Plan 
is accompanied by a financial planning tool. This tool brings together all  
of the financial data from existing plans. It will be updated regularly to 
make visible the financial impact of the Strategic Plan, allowing us to 
adjust expenditure, projections and timelines as necessary, effectively 
making planning an ongoing process. It is accompanied by a new five-year 
strategic planning template being developed with the Schools, which 
will allow for bottom-up iterative planning throughout the period of the 
plan, tracing key metrics such as student numbers, staff planning and 
programme development.
 
All of these sources will feed into the regular monitoring of the plan. In  
past years, a report on achievement of the Strategic Plan was brought 
forward twice annually to the relevant management and governance 
bodies of the university; and since 2018, the university’s Strategic Plan 
has formed the basis of our Strategy and Performance Dialogue Compact 
with the Higher Education Authority (HEA). To this will be added a risk 
register for the plan as a whole. These reports will continue from 2020 
onwards; however, the monitoring process will henceforth be continuous, 
with updates reported regularly to the entire College community via the 
Strategic Plan website.
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
50
51
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin52
Appendix
53
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
National strategies
01 The Future of Education and Skills: Education 2030: The Future We Want, OECD report, 2018.  
http://www.oecd.org/education/2030/E2030%20Position%20Paper%20%2805.04.2018%29.pdf
02 National Strategy for Higher Education to 2030, Report of the Strategy Group, January 2011.  
https://www.education.ie/en/Publications/Policy-Reports/National-Strategy-for-Higher-Education-2030.pdf 
03 HEA National Review of Gender Equality in Higher Education Institutions, Report of the Expert Group, June 2016. 
https://hea.ie/assets/uploads/2017/04/hea_review_of_gender_equality_in_irish_higher_education.pdf
04 Innovation 2020, Ireland’s Strategy For Research And Development, Science And Technology, Interdepartmental 
Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation, 2015. 
https://dbei.gov.ie/en/Publications/Publication-files/Innovation-2020.pdf 
05 Project Ireland 2040, Department of Public Expenditure and Reform.
https://www.gov.ie/en/campaigns/09022006-project-ireland-2040/ 
Trinity College Dublin The University of Dublin
54
Appendix
The following is a list of links to the full text of existing plans and strategies referenced in the Strategic Plan.
AP Access Programmes https://www.tcd.ie/accessprogrammes/ 
AS Athena SWAN https://www.tcd.ie/tcgel/athena-swan/
BSDP Trinity Business School  
Development Planhttps://www.tcd.ie/business/
D&I Strategy for Diversity  
& Inclusionhttps://www.tcd.ie/diversity-inclusion/diversity-inclusion-strategy/
DTS Digital Transformation Strategy https://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
E3 E3 - Engineering, Environment 
and Emerging Technologieshttps://www.tcd.ie/e3/
ES Trinity College Dublin Estates 
Strategy November 2018https://www.tcd.ie/estatesandfacilities/assets/doc/Final%20TCD_Estates_Strat -
egy_14_Nov_%20PDF%20for%20website.pdf 
GBHI Global Brain Health Initiative http://gbhi.org/s/GBHI-Strategic-Plan.pdf
GRS3 Global Relations Strategy 3 https://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
HT Healthy Trinity https://www.tcd.ie/healthytrinity/assets/documents/TOR/Healthy%20Trinity-
2019TORFinal.pdf 
IS2 Industry Strategy 2 https://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
LRES A Living Research Excellence 
Strategyhttps://www.tcd.ie/research/assets/pdf/Research Excellence Strategy.pdf
LS The Library of Trinity College 
Dublin - Strategy 2015-2020https://www.tcd.ie/library/assets/pdf/strategy/library-strategy-2015-2020.pdf
LSDP Law School Development Plan https://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
SOM School of Medicine  
Development Planhttps://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
SST Sustainability https://www.tcd.ie/provost/sustainability/initiatives/
T@
GCQTrinity @ Grand Canal Quay https://www.tcd.ie/innovation-district/
TA21 Trinity Access 21 Growth Plan https://www.tcd.ie/strategy/
TCD -
SUTrinity College Dublin Students’ 
Union Strategic Plan 2019-2023https://www.tcdsu.org/aboutus 
TEP Trinity Education Project https://www.tcd.ie/TEP/
TLRH Trinity Long Room Hub Arts & 
Humanities Research Institutehttps://www.tcd.ie/trinitylongroomhub/
TSJCI Trinity St James's Cancer 
Institutehttps://www.tcd.ie/research/themes/assets/pdf/Cancer%20Institute%20book -
let.pdf
55
Strategic Plan 2020-2025
 Further information can be found in the links below on those who will be involved in implementing the Strategic Plan 
goals as referenced throughout this document.
AR Academic Registry https://www.tcd.ie/academicregistry/
CSD Corporate Services Division https://www.tcd.ie/corporate-services/
CT CONSUL T Trinity https://www.tcd.ie/innovation/consult/
DGS Dean of Graduate Studies https://www.tcd.ie/graduatestudies/
DR Dean of Research https://www.tcd.ie/research/
DS Dean of Students https://www.tcd.ie/dean_students/
FAHSS Faculty of Arts, Humanities and 
Social Scienceshttps://ahss.tcd.ie/
FEMS Faculty of Engineering,  
Mathematics and Sciencehttps://ems.tcd.ie/
FHS Faculty of Health Sciences https://www.tcd.ie/healthsciences/
FSD Financial Services Division https://www.tcd.ie/financial-services/
HR Human Resources https://www.tcd.ie/hr/
HRB Health Research Board https://www.hrb.ie/ 
IRC Irish Research Council http://research.ie/ 
PO Provost’s Office https://www.tcd.ie/provost/
PAC Public Affairs & Communications https://www.tcd.ie/Communications/
RG Registrar https://www.tcd.ie/registrar/
SFI Science Foundation Ireland https://www.sfi.ie/ 
SL Senior Lecturer https://www.tcd.ie/undergraduate-studies/
SO Secretary’s Office https://www.tcd.ie/Secretary/
ST Senior Tutor https://www.tcd.ie/seniortutor/
TAP Trinity Access Programmes https://www.tcd.ie/trinityaccess/
TG Tangent https://www.tcd.ie/tangent/
TJ H Trinity Joint Honors https://www.tcd.ie/tsm-tjh/
TR&I Trinity Research & Innovation https://www.tcd.ie/innovation/
TT&L Trinity Teaching & Learning https://www.tcd.ie/teaching-learning/ 
VPO Office of the Vice–Provost / Chief 
Academic Officerhttps://www.tcd.ie/academic-services/vpcao
 
Office of the Provost
House 1, Trinity College
Dublin 2, Ireland
+353 1 896 4362
provost@tcd.ie
www.tcd.ie
