Strategic Priorities
2022-2024
2 3Table of Contents
Introduction: why Strategic  
Priorities 2022-2024?6
12
18
2026
64
Dynamic context – selection 
of external driversTU Delft vision, mission  
and valuesStrategic priorities  
2022-2024
Students and Education
Research and Innovation
People and Community
Campus and Services
TU Delft – In times 
of COVID-19 Implementation1
425
3 6
4 5Prof.dr. Rob F. Mudde
Vice-Rector Magnificus/vice-chair Executive Board
Preface strategic priorities
The past two years have been a turbulent 
period, during which the TU Delft 
community and society as a whole have 
gone through several transitions. We still 
find ourselves in a dynamic environment. 
Especially now it is important to have a 
clear picture of what we stand for and 
what our ambitions are. That is why we are 
pleased to present the TU Delft Strategic 
Priorities 2022-2024, which we will jointly 
work on in the coming years. In doing so, 
we are building on the Strategic Framework 
2018-2024, but in a way that incorporates 
the lessons learned from the past two years 
into our strategy. 
For example, we have learned that we 
can work on location and online in many 
different ways; we will continue to shape 
this in the coming years through our hybrid 
working policy. Our education has also 
been through an accelerated transition. We 
will be able to build on our strong position 
as a leader in engineering education by 
integrating the latest insights in ‘blended 
learning’ into the curriculum, and by further optimizing the support for our students 
and lecturers. Moreover, we will be paying 
special attention to the changing profile of 
the engineer. 
Our students and scientists highly value 
societal impact and we translate this into 
our research and educational programs. 
Climate change, health and digitalization 
will remain important focus points for the 
coming years. The regional cooperation, 
strengthened in recent years with our 
colleagues at the medical centers and 
universities in Leiden and Rotterdam, will 
enable us to contribute even better to 
solutions for global challenges. 
Of course, the well-being of our staff and 
students is an important issue and we will 
continue to pay attention to this, among 
others through the study climate program 
and the development of new leadership 
programs. Engaged students and staff are 
essential for a thriving TU Delft. As TU Delft University of Technology, we 
have the ambition to make our campus   
carbon neutral by 2030. We must therefore 
critically reflect on our energy use, catering, 
mobility approach and campus ecology. 
The transition towards an carbon neutral, 
circular and climate-adaptive campus will 
entail large structural changes, but the 
Executive Board is convinved that through 
our joint efforts these sustainability goals 
can be achieved. Climate action on campus will thus become increasingly visible and 
concrete in the coming years. 
We are pleased to see that our TU Delft 
community is able to meet each other 
again on our lively campus. The resilience 
of our students, staff and partners, which 
has emerged time and again in the past 
two years, give us full confidence in our 
future, in which we may realize these great 
ambitions together.   
Prof.dr.ir. Tim van der Hagen
Rector Magnificus TU Delft / President Executive BoardDrs. Marien van der Meer
Vice President Operations / Member Executive Board
6 7Since the start of the COVID-19 crisis, TU 
Delft has seen a remarkable quick shift 
towards new ways of working: a large part 
of our education has been transferred to 
online and students and staff were working 
largely from home. Furthermore, multiple 
cross-disciplinary taskforces have been 
set up to deal with specific operational and 
tactical aspects of keeping our university running, dedicated student teams have 
been working on providing concrete 
solutions (such as OperationAir) for the 
COVID-19 crisis and platforms such as 
resilientsociety.nl have been set up to focus 
research projects on COVID-19 and its 
aftermath. This has highlighted the ‘can do’ 
mentality, flexibility and resilience of our 
university.  In such uncertain times, organisations are 
challenged to develop a strategic approach 
to deal with the medium and long-term 
implications and build up organisational resilience. In order to navigate this new 
rapidly changing world we need a flexible 
strategic approach for achieving our 
strategic goals.  
Since March 2020, we witnessed a landslide, changing the entire 
environment we were navigating in. The COVID-19 crisis has 
uprooted the way we live, the way we study, work and socialize. 
This landslide forced us to make new pathways. Build new bridges. 
Moreover, it has forced us to investigate our own perspective on the 
new landscape. How we feel about it, what we have learned, how our 
priorities might have changed and why.1

8 9Strategic framework 2018-2024 in relation to   
the Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 
The shared values, aims and working principles with which our community members can 
identify and align their energies and contributions have been expressed in the Strategic 
Framework 2018-2024. The purpose of the Strategic Framework is to serve as a high-level 
compass that guides decision-making bodies at all levels within our university. These overall 
goals of the TU Delft as expressed in the Strategic Framework have not changed, but due to 
the current volatile environment we are forced to critically reflect and prioritize our strategic 
responses for the coming two years. Therefore, in these Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 we 
present the focus areas and more specific targets and plans for the TU Delft for the coming 
two years. It is in that sense both an update of the current Strategic Framework and a 
predecessor of the upcoming new strategic plan (2024-2030).  2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
10 11Emerging strategies 
In the past years several developments 
have led to emerging strategies for our 
university. These emerging strategies have 
become very prominent in our operations 
but were not explicitly included in the 
Strategic Framework 2018-2024. They will 
therefore be addressed more in detail in 
the Strategic Priorities 2022-2024.   
Most notable the COVID-19 crisis has led 
to a higher prioritization of topics such as 
hybrid working, blended learning, student/
staff wellbeing and campus redesign 
(including sustainability).  
The COVID-19 crisis has also accelerated 
polarisation in society. This has ambiguous 
consequences for trust in science: on the 
one hand, overall public trust in science 
has increased; on the other hand, specific 
groups show a growing mistrust towards 
science. The increased belief in conspiracy 
theories and fake news have implications 
for universities, including threats to our 
academics. Restoring trust in science for 
some parts of society and living op to high 
levels of trust in science in other parts, are 
therefore an important focal point for TU 
Delft. This also requires protecting and promoting academic values, as well as 
critical (self-)reflection on our academic 
culture. 
Climate change will continue to further 
disrupt societies across the world, calling 
for increased global efforts to develop 
climate change mitigation and adaptation 
solutions. Against this background it is 
anticipated that our scientists will be asked 
more frequently to support governments 
and policymakers in making informed 
decisions to combat climate change. 
Not only did we increase our research 
capacity in this regard, but we are also 
in the process of implementing concrete 
measures to make our campus CO2 
neutral before 2030. 
In the past years we have also seen that 
urgent and complex societal challenges 
called for closer collaborations across 
boundaries between institutes and 
disciplines. Among others TU Delft has 
joined forces with Erasmus MC and 
Erasmus University Rotterdam to work on 
the Convergence of Health and Technology, 
AI, data & digitalization (also together with 
Leiden University) and Resilient Delta. In addition, several large-scale research 
programmes have been developed, such 
as AiTech and Climate Action, to stimulate 
the build-up of research capacity in these 
areas, the development of innovative new 
educational programmes, and closer public 
engagement.   
In parallel, in a context of growing 
geopolitical tensions, we recognize the urgency to develop new policies for 
knowledge security and explore the ethical 
dilemmas and moral boundaries relevant to 
our academic practices and partnerships. 
In addition, because of recent hacks of 
universities cybersecurity has been put 
much higher on the agendas of Higher 
Education organisations. 
Looking forward 
We will continue to operate in a highly volatile environment, and it will remain difficult to 
predict COVID-19 developments, governmental responses, the impact of climate change, 
geopolitical developments and economic impacts. Rapid changes in the number of 
students enrolling at our university, possibilities for recruiting world class academic staff, the 
willingness of private parties to finance joint research and government funding might change 
significantly within unprecedented timeframes. 
 
The Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 aim to provide concrete goals and guidelines for the 
coming two years, taking into account that we will still be operating in a highly volatile and 
difficult to predict environment.  The landscape has changed and we ourselves might have 
changed, but the overall mission of our university has not changed one bit: Impact for a 
better society.  
12 13Vision
Delft University of Technology contributes to solving global challenges  
by educating new generations  of socially responsible engineers and 
expanding the frontiers of the engineering sciences .  Values
The acronym “DIRECT” represents the 
core values that we, as the TU Delft 
community, seek to uphold in our daily 
activities – as we present ourselves to the 
world, and in our relationships with each 
other. “DIRECT” stands for Diversity, 
Integrity, Respect, Engagement, 
Courage and Trust. Of these values, that form the basis of the TU Delft Code of 
Conduct, integrity is key. It is our personal 
integrity that guides each of us when we 
interpret and act on these values, and 
it is to the integrity of the institution and 
community as a whole that our individual 
actions contribute to.  Mission
• We perform world-class research by combining science, engineering and design  
in a socially responsible manner. Thus, we advance and share the benefits of 
technology .  
• We develop and enhance the expertise of tomorrow’s engineering  leaders and 
educate professional, high-level and responsible engineers throughout their careers.  
• We help to develop and deliver technology-driven, innovative solutions  to societal 
problems through collaborations  with leading national  and international partners 
whilst being firmly rooted in Delft.   
• We continuously improve our collective effectiveness , performance and organisational 
resilience through the principles and practice of professionalism, collaboration and 
openness. 2TU Delft vision, mission 
and values  
14 15DIRECTAt TU Delft we embrace diversity and aim to be as inclusive as 
possible. We follow The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
believing that “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and 
rights.” Hence, the differences between humans ought not diminish 
our respect for each and every individual as equally worthy of our 
consideration. This concerns differences in socio-economic, cultural 
or religious background, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, age, 
physical appearance as well as roles and positions. Put positively, the 
joining of diverse perspectives is an aspect we want to promote with 
our activities. These differences add value - not only to our daily lives 
but also to the work we do together. We should therefore protect and 
embrace the diversity within our community. 
Integrity means being independent, responsible, honest, 
transparent and sincere for its own sake. Persons of integrity 
hold themselves to high moral and ethical standards. In order 
to have integrity, we need to willingly engage in self-reflective 
deliberation about what those standards ought to be, and 
how we can work together to uphold them. We all have the 
responsibility to improve ourselves and to act in ways that 
empower the community as a whole to act with integrity. 
Integrity is not a quality that can be taken for granted; it 
requires a continuous effort to maintain and improve.Respecting each other, and thus the diversity of our 
community, implies that people are never treated 
merely as means towards the attainment of personal 
or organisational goals, and that we respect each 
other’s freedom and ambition to excel. It also implies 
that members of our community will not discriminate, 
demean, bully, humiliate, harass or manipulate 
others. We might have differing ideas of what counts 
as respectful behaviour. Therefore, respecting 
each other also entails being honest, transparent, 
and willing to engage each other with an open 
mind, in discussions about our ideas, actions and 
responsibilities. DiversityIntegrity
Respect
16 17DIRECTWe strive to have impact for a better society, both on a local and global scale. 
Being responsible means that we consider the implications of our actions, 
also concerning the collaborations we engage in, the partnerships we form, 
the results of our research, or the impact of the technologies we develop. We 
embed the social responsibility of TU Delft into our educational programmes, 
research, designs, projects, and in activities that support these efforts. TU 
Delft is an open academic community: we strive to be an institution in which 
employees, students and guests can communicate with each other openly, 
and we aim to reflect the ideals of open science as much as possible. This 
openness is part of the effort to ensure that the processes of education, 
research and innovation, as well as administrative and decision-making 
processes, are verifiable at all levels of the university. The responsibility for 
engaging in and monitoring these processes is shared amongst us, members 
of the TU Delft community. Our engagement is also expressed in the ways in 
which we relate to each other within the TU Delft community: we inspire each 
other and are prepared to offer and receive constructive feedback.
We believe it is important to be courageous in exploring the frontiers 
of scientific and technological knowledge and design. We make our 
knowledge accessible to other experts as well as to society and are open 
to learning from each other. Courage is also needed when it comes to 
integrity: it takes courage to speak out. All of us work together to create 
and maintain a safe environment for discussing and acting on difficult 
questions, in order to enact our core values and principles.
This includes having the courage to face uncomfortable situations and 
deal with them responsibly, to recognize our own limitations, and to ask 
for help when needed.Public trust in science and mutual trust amongst the members of the TU 
Delft community are key. Scientific knowledge is a public good and it 
is our responsibility to act in such a manner that we, and the outcomes 
of our work and studies, are worthy of that trust. We are committed 
to transparency — by being, as much as is possible and fitting, open 
about what we do, with whom, and why. Thereby we show ourselves to 
be trustworthy to those inside and outside of TU Delft. To enable trust 
in each other, we respect each other’s privacy and protect confidential 
information. We have systems in place to guide us in how to protect 
data privacy, and we respect each other’s freedom from intrusion. We 
take responsibility for our actions and avoid conflicts of interest and the 
semblance thereof. Those of us in managerial positions further act upon 
the responsibility to create a safe environment in which people trust 
each other. Engagement  
Courage
Trust 
18 19TU Delft – In times 
of COVID-19
TU Delft has always been a campus 
university and we highly value the 
exchanges and interactions in our 
classrooms, lecture halls, library, cafeterias, 
offices, and parks. We see this as vital for 
the social cohesion of our organisation. 
As an organisation we encompass many 
different communities, consisting of people 
forming their own interactions, group 
identification and sense of belonging. The 
campus brings us together and allows for 
frequent and intensive contact between 
different members and communities. In 
the past two years, while doing almost 
everything from home, we have missed this 
in our work and education. 
 
However, we also discovered that much 
more is possible ‘online’ than previously thought. We have learned that it is not 
always necessary to be in the same 
location to work together efficiently. How 
flexible we can be as an organisation, 
how quickly we can shift to new ways of 
working and studying. That we do not have 
to travel that much to still have meaningful 
(international) exchanges. That we can 
spend more time at home with loved 
ones. We have discovered the freedom 
of determining our own work and study 
schedule. We also learned that there is 
a flip side to this freedom. Determining 
our work-life balance on a daily basis can 
be exhausting and sometimes we can 
completely lose the balance and become 
engulfed by endless online meetings, 
emails and texts.  On March 13th 2020 we abruptly shifted 
from doing almost everything on campus 
to doing almost everything from home. 
This transition was achieved through an 
enormous effort by our staff and students. 
Some great initiatives have come out of 
this time, such as the OperationAir and 
the 5 to 12 student movement supporting 
local communities. At the same time, this 
period highlighted some of the existing 
weaknesses within our organisation, such 
as the huge pressure on teaching staff 
and the sometimes isolated position of 
(international) students.
  
Going forward, we are facing a new 
transition period. When restrictions within the Netherlands and the world are lifted, 
we will be able to work and study in large 
groups once more. So, what will we return 
to? How can we become that vibrant social 
community on campus again? How have 
the past years changed us? What are the 
lessons learned we want to take with us 
into a new future?  
The answers to the above questions will 
differ for each person. We can talk about 
the overall ‘lessons learned’, but these will 
be nuanced for each person. We know how 
it was before the COVID-19 crisis and how 
it was during, but we will need to discover 
the post-pandemic society together step by 
step in the coming year(s).  3

20 214Dynamic context – selection 
of external drivers 
The TU Delft operates in a complex and dynamic playing field with 
many internal and external stakeholders that have explicit and 
implicit expectations of us. We have identified several external 
drivers which currently have a high impact on our university. These 
factors determine to a large extent the playing field and the scope 
within which the TU Delft can develop its activities.
COVID-19 policies 
The COVID-19 crisis has had a profound effect on our 
society and economy. Its impact on all the activities of 
TU Delft as well as on the TU Delft community has been 
immense, becoming the main trigger in re-evaluating 
our strategy for 2022-2024. Whether, and for how long, 
COVID-19 policies will remain an important parameter in 
our strategy depends on many unpredictable factors, from 
the possible emergence of new variants and the quality and 
availability of vaccines to the choices of governments and 
behaviour of the population.  Climate change and sustainability  
Another developing crisis, climate change, is even turning into an existential threat on many 
fronts, transforming societies around the world. It also creates a moral obligation and asks 
for a leading role of a technical university such as 
ours. Not only should we contribute to the world’s 
efforts through our scientific research and educating 
tomorrow’s engineers and citizens, we should 
also critically reflect on our own impact on climate 
change. Moreover, many Dutch universities are 
clearly aligning their ambitions with the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nation 
(UN), as sustainability is becoming a common 
thread in education, research, knowledge transfer 
and operations of Higher Education institutions.  
New developments in technology,  
including digitalization 
Digitalization and automation are fundamentally transforming 
the way we work and study. There has been a rapid speed 
of new technological developments in the area of work and 
education, and technology continues to further permeate all 
areas of society. We will have to reassess what this means 
for our research, our educational programmes and our day-to-
day operations, including how we will deal with the moral and 
ethical dilemmas that come with these developments.  

22 23Labour market  
 
Changes in ways of working, as well as 
education and research are intimately 
connected to the labour market. As a 
university, TU Delft is positioned in both 
supply and demand of workers. On the 
supply side, the engineers of the future 
educated in Delft are highly valued by 
the (international) labour market. This 
makes TU Delft an attractive university 
for (prospective) students with programs 
that stay up to date with labour market 
developments. On the other hand, TU Delft is continuously looking for high quality academic 
and support staff to achieve its missions. The global competition for academic talent and the 
tight labour market in the Netherlands create challenges in attracting talent. General trends 
on the labour market include the movement towards lifelong learning and a focus on personal 
and professional development.
Dutch government choices for higher 
education, including funding and 
investment
Given the current political situation in the Netherlands, 
choices by a new government may be anticipated with 
respect to the funding of research and education. Public 
decisions about higher education will have a significant 
impact on, among others, funding per student, budget for 
free research and mission-driven funding programs, and as a result on the balance between education and research. Other important factors may be 
the possible legislation on the regulation of student influx, the institutional accreditation, and 
the quality agreements. 
Moreover, the Dutch government continues to promote innovation and ecosystem 
development through legislation and investments. For the coming years, the focus of the 
mission driven innovation policy includes the themes of climate and energy, digitalisation & 
key technologies, and the circular economy, and it will put start- and scale-ups at the centre 
stage of these developments. 
  
Value-driven society 
Research shows that Gen Z, compared to previous 
generations, is more motivated to have a positive impact 
by helping to create and sustain a liveable world. Their 
sense of urgency and willingness to contribute may be 
indicative of a broader social trend. Also, in the midst 
of polarisation and growing tensions in society, there 
seems to be a growing awareness of principles such 
as integrity, diversity, inclusivity and equality, which 
are shaping the way we (want to) treat each other. 
Universities are expected to play a leading role, not only 
in their primary missions by including such values in 
engineering, design and science, but also in their daily 
functioning, which is reflected in the further development 
of our integrity  policies, as well as in the reassessment 
of the Recognition & Reward policies for scientific staff.

24 25Student-centric education 
The student population is growing and becoming more diverse. Lifestyles, educational needs 
and expectations are changing. University students are more outspoken, they have clear 
demands and wishes regarding their educational paths, which should also fit the labour 
market. At the same time student well-being is high on the agenda due to the COVID-19 
crisis as well as and the growing importance of new societal values.  
Regional Inter-institutional collaboration 
Developing and organizing strategic inter-university 
partnerships, networks and alliances at institutional 
levels is considered a necessary aspect of the overall 
strategies of higher education institutions. Inter-
institutional cooperation is regarded as one of the 
hallmarks of a vital university ecosystem and takes 
very different organisational forms. In Europe, this 
development is stimulated both by the rules set by the 
European Union to obtain research funding and by the 
European Union’s perspective on innovative economic 
regional hotspots. In the Netherlands, inter-institutional 
cooperation between universities – in addition to the 
EU- rules – is stimulated by the government’s efforts to profile and differentiate the higher 
education landscape. A significant number of such strategic alliances have emerged in 
the Netherlands in recent years; sometimes building on already existing collaborations, 
sometimes as newly forged and promising collaborations.Knowledge security  
(International) collaborations with trusted and diverse partners, both public and private, 
become increasingly important in tackling (urgent) complex societal issues. This is relevant 
in light of our ambition to have impact via more inter- and transdisciplinary research, but it 
also poses new types of challenges. Collaborations with partners in countries where human 
rights, including academic freedom, are not respected, increasingly raise ethical concerns. 
Also, this may pose challenges to our ambition to practice open science, as we need to 
better understand the possibilities for and risks of openness, thereby clearly rationalizing 
what we do open, to which degree, and what not. Moreover, state actors that do not always 
respect democratic principles, fuelled by 
geopolitical tensions, actively strive to acquire 
sensitive technologies and innovations. 
These developments require careful attention, 
including the design of new principles for 
and policies on knowledge security and 
collaboration with third parties, as well as 
infrastructure and tools that help researchers, 
teachers and students to make robust 
decisions, and help the university to ensure 
organisational accountability.

26 275These Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 entail 
the focus areas for the TU Delft for the 
coming two years. 
These Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 entail the focus areas 
for the TU Delft for the coming two years. These areas 
have mainly been defined based on the analysis of external 
drivers1 and the advices of the ‘Strategic Response Teams’2  
The Strategic Framework 2018-2024 included 120 goals, 
both long term and short term. Some of the activities linked 
to these goals have been ‘embedded’ in our current day-to-
day operations, while other require additional effort in the 
coming two years and therefore have been included again 
in these Strategic Priorities. Thus, in the Strategic Priorities, 
the most pressing issues and goals for the coming two 
years have been highlighted, but this naturally does not 
cover all activities taking place in our university, nor have 
the other goals become less relevant. 
1) In the TU Delft report ‘Towards an Analysis of external drivers relevant for TU Delft’(June-2021) main 
external drivers for the organisation were identified. These drivers were extensively discussed with internal 
and external stakeholders during several strategic conferences.
2) In December 2020 the Strategic Response teams (SRT’s) were set up to advice the Executive Board on 
what the world can look like after COVID-19 and what this means for our education and research and the 
impact we want to make. The teams consisted of internal experts (scientists, support staff and students) 
and involved both internal and external stakeholders when drafting their advices. In June 2021 the SR T’s 
presented their short term and long-term advices to the Executive Board. Mainly the long-term advices have 
been incorporated in the Strategic Priorities.
28 29Students 
& EducationResearch 
& Innovation
 zLeadership in engineering education
 zContemporary vision on teaching and 
learning
 zReducing the workload of our tea -
ching staff
 zThe growing student population 
 zStudent journey improvements
 z‘Delft engineer’ approach
 zLifelong Learning strategy
 zOpen education zResearch excellence
 zStrategical choices of scientific the -
mes (amongst others Climate Action, 
Energy transition, Health & Care, 
Digital Society and  Urbanizaton & 
Mobility)  and living labs
 zNext-level innovation ecosystem
 zProfessionalize our research support
 zOpen science
 zGlobal engagement and knowledge 
securityPeople 
& CommunityCampus 
& Services
 zCare Ambition 
 zHybrid working policy
 zSocial cohesion
 zCareer development of our staff 
 zLeadership programmes
 zDiversity and inclusion programme
 zIntegrity programme zNew Campus Vision
 zCampus Strategy 
 zSustainability plan to become CO2 
neutral, circular and climate adaptive 
in 2030
 zNext-level campus ecosystem
 zDigital strategy
 zUser-centric services 
 zRisk management
 zInformation security
30 31Students 
& Education
32 33The COVID-19 crisis has had a huge 
impact on our students lives and welfare. 
We had to completely change the way 
we teach. Students were cut off from their 
social circles and (informal) interactions 
between teachers and students were 
greatly missed. This was not only very 
hard on both students and teachers, but 
also detrimental for the social cohesion 
of our organisation. On the other hand, 
we witnessed the resilience and flexibility 
of our students and educators on a daily 
basis. Bottom-up initiatives such as 5 
to 12 student movement showed the 
innovativeness and engagement of our 
student community.  
 
In the coming two years we aim to rebuild 
our vibrant, diverse and inclusive student community in class and on campus, while 
also integrating the ‘lessons learned’ 
from the COVID-19. With the changing 
landscape there are various aspects to 
keep in mind in order to continually provide 
the best quality of education. Important 
themes include understanding where 
online teaching and on campus teaching is 
appropriate, having hybrid education that is 
intentional and with purpose, serving large 
groups of students while ensuring that 
personal attention is not lost and providing 
the best possible support for lecturers 
regarding the use of digital resources. The 
overall goal is to ensure the quality of our 
engineering education for a rising number 
of students and reduce the workload of our 
teachers. Context  
Students are TU Delft’s biggest impact on society. The big transitions 
society is facing, with regards to climate change, health and 
digitalization, require highly skilled engineers and technology 
leaders. It is our job to enable our future generations of engineers to 
make the world a safer, more sustainable and generally better place.  
Through smart investments in educational 
support, we will further operationalize our 
‘vision on education’ (2018). In addition, 
we will critically reflect on the ‘studyability’  
of our current programmes and make 
adjustments were necessary.
The demand for Delft engineers on 
the labour market remains strong and 
our university continues to attract both 
national and international talent. One of 
the focus areas in the coming two years 
will be building up our teaching capacity. 
With the extra funding awarded to the TU 
Delft by the ministry of Education we will 
attract additional staff with teaching duties 
and invest further in educational support. 
Moreover, we will continue to focus 
educational content more strongly on large 
societal challenges, most notable in health and technology, climate change and AI & 
digitalization and promote more group work 
and personal development opportunities for 
students.  
In addition, we will further advance our 
lifelong learning portfolio and deliver 
continuing education for professionals to 
upskill themselves in areas of technical and 
engineering expertise of great relevance 
to the environment and society. Finally, the 
developments towards open education will 
be institutionalized in order to make Open 
Education the default approach for teaching 
in the coming years.
Above all, we are excited to welcome our 
students fully back on campus again.   
34 35
“In the Central Student 
Council I was able to 
underline the importance of 
representation and inclusion 
of people from diverse 
backgrounds in every layer 
of the university. The true 
skills of a Delft Engineer lie in 
not only ensuring everyone 
is contributing to tackling 
global challenges, but also in 
embracing a diverse mindset.”“2020-2022 has taught us 
the value of both online and 
in-person education. Moving 
forward I want to incorporate 
the best of both of these 
educational worlds for our 
students.”
Saraf Nawar
Chair- Lijst Bèta  
Secretary TU Delft Central Student CouncilThomas Burdyny
Assistant Professor / Teacher of the Year 2022

36 37Students & Education
For 2024
We continue to expand our position of leader in engineering education.
Lecturers play a crucial role in our education, and it is our ambition to hone a 
culture and setting in which they are optimally supported and guided. Therefore, 
a contemporary vision on teaching and learning will be developed , which will 
include blended and hybrid education.We will develop a Lifelong Learning strategy  focussed on societal challenges in 
collaboration with faculties and professional learners (including our alumni and their 
employers).
We aim to reduce the workload of lecturers through dedicated investments in 
additional teaching staff and support , but also by exploring new possible 
strategies  aimed at reducing the workload, such as digitalization.  The ‘Delft engineer’ approach will be further developed, and our programmes will 
be updated to allow for more interdisciplinary group work, professional development 
(Master 2.0) and the integration of new content on large societal challenges 
(Climate Action, Health & Care, Digital Society, Energy Transition and Urbanizaton 
& Mobility), while maintaining the strong foundation of state-of-the-art disciplinary 
knowledge and expertise.
We will implement the new policy on Open Educational Resources, which will be a 
starting to point to make Open Education the default approach for teaching  at 
TU Delft.We will develop clear guidelines on how to manage the growing student 
population , ensuring that the student-staff ratio is acceptable, and the quality of 
education is guaranteed. Among others by assessing our educational programmes 
and investigating the possibilities for redesigning programmes (including 
assessment) to allow for both a large-scale and small-scale approach and effective 
organisation of education and student support. We will continue to discuss the 
optimal ‘size’ of our university with our stakeholders. 
We will improve our insights into the student journey  (amongst others in light of 
student success, mutual expectations and student wellbeing). 
38 39Research 
& Innovation
40 41Large societal challenges have become 
even more prevalent in our research 
activities. This is in line with the overall 
trend where research today has become 
more of a designed and purposeful 
process, focusing much more on specific 
‘real world’ problems and societal 
challenges. A strong basis of fundamental 
scientific research remains nonetheless 
essential. Upcoming structural choices 
in government funding of research will 
naturally impact the further development of 
our research portfolio.
In the past three years several large 
multidisciplinary research programmes 
have been launched: we have initiated 
new collaborations with Erasmus MC and 
Erasmus University Rotterdam on Health 
and Technology, AI, data and digitalization 
and on Resilient Delta. This led among others to the recently established 
Pandemic and Disaster Preparedness 
Centre in Rotterdam. On AI we have set 
up 24 new labs and innovative educational 
programmes, also in close collaboration 
with Leiden University. In the Climate 
Action programme our research on 
climate science, mitigation, adaptation and 
governance will be strengthened. QuTech 
is our mission-driven research institute for 
quantum computing and quantum internet. 
Recently the Quantum Delta NL program 
received significant investments from the 
Dutch ‘Growth Fund’. 
The aim of the program is to position the 
Netherlands as a new Silicon Valley for 
quantum technology for Europe over the 
next seven years. Context  
Despite the challenging circumstances as a result of the COVID-19 
crisis and related lockdowns throughout the world, we were able 
to continue most of our research activities and strengthen our 
international reputation as a world class technological university 
with impact for a better society.  In the coming two years we will further build 
on these programmes. We anticipate that 
programmes will lead to increased external  
funding and much closer (regional) 
collaboration with businesses and (local) 
governments. Strengthening our public-
private partnerships will be crucial in this 
respect and our campus will play pivotal 
role in bringing innovators and pioneers 
together to develop innovations with a 
positive impact on society. As we see a 
growing amount of financing opportunities 
outside of traditional instruments (such as 
the Growth Fund), we intent to develop new 
approaches to respond to this. 
Outreach and public engagement are core 
elements of these large-scale research 
programmes. We therefore aim to work 
closely with the general public, global 
leaders and policy makers in developing 
concrete solutions and more actively 
engage in the public debate. Against that 
background we also intend to intensify our 
presence in The Hague.
TU Delft has a leading position in Open 
Science. Open access ensures that 
science developed with public means is 
accessible without hitting a paywall or other restrictions. In addition, it allows 
staff members at universities that cannot 
afford expensive subscriptions to access 
information so that the academic becomes 
more of a level playing field. Fair data is 
essential to build trust in the outcomes 
and conclusions of research projects. It 
allows verification of results, while other 
researchers can consider reusing these 
datasets in their own studies. 
 
As the production of knowledge goes hand 
in hand with the sharing of knowledge, we 
will continue our efforts in building trusted 
partnerships on a global level. At the same 
time, we are very aware of the growing 
geopolitical tensions and found there is 
a need for new policies on knowledge 
security, especially in areas such as AI.  
42 43
“As Delft Young 
Academy we 
foster dialogue 
and collaboration 
between young 
academics 
from different 
disciplines and 
faculties.”“We were able to grow our 
sustainable start-up at the TU 
Delft campus thanks to the 
many connections we could 
make here with researchers, 
students and other businesses.”
Mark de Kruijff
Business & Technology Developer/
Strategy Advisor of Respyre 
Dr. Delphine De Tavernier
Tenure-Track Assistant Professor and 
member of Delft Young Academy
Dr. Angelo Accardo
Tenure-Track Assistant Professor and 
member of Delft Young Academy

44 45For 2024Reseach & Innovation
We consolidate our strong international academic position and 
reputation based on our research excellence and state of the art 
infrastructure. We will also focus more strongly on making our research 
and innovations more inclusive.  We aim to professionalize our research support, in order to pro-
actively respond to financing opportunities, align relevant research 
services and support our academics throughout the lifecycle of their 
research projects.
We will expand the work on open science with open hardware and 
citizen science and pay systematic attention to ethics and integrity 
in Open Science, thereby exploring the limits to ‘open’ (“as open as 
possible, as closed as necessary”), and the interface with knowledge 
security and openness in (international) partnerships. 
We will further operationalize our Global Engagement Framework  and 
formulate a knowledge security vision with clear procedures for staff 
and students. 
We envision that our strategic choices of scientific themes (among others 
Climate Action, Energy transition, Health & Care, Digital Society and Urbanizaton 
& Mobility) and living labs lead to increased research capacities, additional 2/3rd 
stream revenues (among others the Dutch Growth Fund and EU Green Deal), closer 
collaboration in the region and innovative new educational programmes. 
We will further enhance our public private partnerships and strengthen the next-
level innovation ecosystem on our campus.
46 47People 
& Community
48 49The COVID-19 crisis has deeply impacted 
the social cohesion of our organisation, as 
we have been forced to work and study in 
completely different ways, far apart from 
each other in the digital domain. This has 
been very challenging and is not something 
we want to return to and/or continue. While 
we do not envision a digital university, in 
the discussions about the post-pandemic 
university there was a general consensus 
that the positive aspects of our ‘time online’ 
should be integrated into our future ways 
of working and studying. In the coming 
years we will therefore invest further in 
hybrid working and blended/hybrid learning 
strategies. Moreover, to boost the social 
cohesion of our organisation we will 
regularly organize community projects and 
interactive events, to bring communities 
together again on campus.  
If the worldwide pandemic has taught 
us anything, it is how important ‘health and wellbeing’ is to us. Poor health and/
or wellbeing have a devastating effect 
on individuals and the university’s 
communities. In the past year, loneliness 
and depressions among both staff and 
students became a grave concern and the 
university has had to determine what our 
role is in supporting our community in this 
area. The university should be a place that 
promotes health and wellbeing and in the 
coming two years we will further investigate 
how to offer concrete support in this area 
for our community. 
Our international collaboration was 
impacted by the COVID-19 crisis, with 
travelling restrictions for over a year. This 
especially affected more junior researchers, 
who were unable to build up their network 
during conferences. Recruitment of 
talented international staff has also 
become more challenging due to the travel 
restrictions. Context
 
Our people are central to our success and we strive for a culture at 
TU Delft where our staff and students, but also our business partners, 
fieldlabs and start-ups, can flourish. We will therefore be taking steps to make 
our recruitment practices more flexible 
and to support junior researchers better in 
building up their network and developing 
their career. 
Diversity unlocks innovation, drives growth 
and boosts creativity. We therefore promote 
a balanced and well-integrated population 
of students and staff, including gender and 
cultural background. Inclusion improves staff 
and students positions and participation 
through enhanced opportunities, access to 
resources, an increased visibility and voice, 
and respect for both individual rights and 
group rights. Inclusion also requires from us 
that we are transparent in what we expect 
from each other, as these expectations 
may be unclear to, for instance, students 
who are less familiar with the (Dutch) 
academic culture, such as international and/
or first-generation students. The TU Delft 
Diversity & Inclusion Office will work to 
further promote a respectful, accessible and 
inclusive community for all staff, students 
and guests. 
TU Delft strives to be both a leading 
university and a great place to work. At the 
heart of this lie our core values (DIRECT), which are embedded across the TU Delft 
community and manifest in how we work, 
study and socialise together. Recent 
developments have raised, and will continue 
to raise, new and often complex ethical 
dilemmas for TU Delft students and staff. 
The Integrity Office, and TU Delft’s integrity 
infrastructure, will enable the TU Delft 
community to deal with these dilemmas. 
Such dilemmas range from the implications 
of the COVID-19 pandemic for how we work 
and study, to the increasing attention for 
social safety, the need for interdisciplinarity, 
how we reward and recognize academics, 
and achieving the right balance between 
international collaboration, Open Science 
and knowledge security.
We will also strive to implement leadership 
programmes in line with this strategy and 
invest in the development of leadership 
skills required to successfully manage 
transitions. We will embed the leadership 
profile in everything we do, leadership 
programmes will focus among others on: 
recognizing and rewarding talent, creating a 
socially safe environment and talking about 
well-being.
50 51
“Social cohesion is an 
indispensable, but also rather 
intangible condition for creating a 
successful, creative and inclusive 
community of staff and students 
that together shape our TU Delft 
campus. All our work and actitivies, 
whether chance meetings at the 
coffee machine or a largescale 
conference, should contribute to 
creating this cohesion.”
Prof.ir. Dick van Gameren 
Dean of the Faculty of Architecture  
and the Built Environment
“The willingness of 
TU Delft students to 
contribute to society 
is enormous. It is  
important to  
support and connect 
enthusiastic 
students with the 
right stakeholders 
to bring innovative 
ideas to life.”
Annelotte Andeweg
Student official at the 
municipality of Delft
Thijs de Jongh
Co-founder of the Social Hub

52 53For 2024People & Community
We will identify how we, as a university, can further support the 
wellbeing of our students and staff, by means of defining the ‘Care 
Ambition ’ of the TU Delft. We will further improve the possibilities for career development of 
our staff, by continuing our efforts in recognizing and rewarding talent, 
enhancing our preboarding and onboarding processes for international 
talents and adapting our recruitment procedures to take into account 
current uncertainties. We will review our postdoc and PhD policies 
to address uncertainty in career development, to improve personal 
development of junior researchers and to improve career and funding 
opportunities for the large population of new tenure trackers attracted 
within TU Delft strategic programs.
Additional leadership programmes  on different levels of the 
organisation will be offered to support the successful management of 
hybrid teams and the creation and/or safeguarding of a socially safe 
environment, in which wellbeing plays an important role. 
A dedicated diversity and inclusion programme  will be implemented 
by the Diversity & Inclusion Office, among others with a focus on gender 
equality, gendered research and innovation (GRI)/ inclusive research 
and innovation, study and work success and representation, recruitment 
practices vis-à-vis diversity and inclusion, religion and spirituality and 
support services for people with a disability.   
We will further strengthen and broaden the  integrity programme, 
including academic, social and organisational integrity, with the expertise 
of the Integrity Office, thereby building on the Vision on Integrity 2018-
2024 and the TU Delft Code of Conduct. We will transition to hybrid working, by implementing the hybrid working policy  and 
by focusing on finding the right balance between working on campus and working 
from home. As hybrid working is new to all of us, surveys will be performed regularly. 
The transition to hybrid working will be a learning process, and may lead to a 
revision of the policy for hybrid working. 
We will focus on boosting the social cohesion  within our university. The sense 
of community will be further strengthened by stimulating joint activities and 
knowledge exchange across the various faculties and service departments. 
Furthermore, we will set up multiple community projects and organise regular 
interactive events and lectures for the broader community on campus.
54 55
56 57We anticipate that the way we interact, 
learn and work will continue to change 
in the coming years and our campus 
infrastructure should support these 
developments. The challenge of managing 
our campus, however, is to address all the 
needs of our community within the means 
available for investment. The university 
is building new education spaces for 
the increasing student population (e.g. 
Echo) and renovating or building new 
faculty buildings and research facilities 
(e.g. EEMCS, Applied Sciences). Taking 
into account to what extent the specific 
functions of our buildings match the needs 
of our community. Also, the university is 
investing in infrastructures for mobility and in a sustainable campus. The interplay 
of increasing needs, scarcity and rising 
prices versus the financial frame leads to 
a continuous tension between ambitions 
and affordability. The objective of the 
Campus Strategy is to give insight into 
this context and to offer direction for 
prioritization, allowing us to make future-
proof investments.
Our campus plays a pivotal role in bringing 
together like-minded parties to make 
meaningful connections and collaborate to 
accelerate innovation. Already, more than 
250 national and international companies, 
ranging from promising start-ups to 
renowned tech companies, are located at Context 
Daily, about 27.000 people travel across our campus: students, 
scientists, visitors, and employees of the university and the 
companies on campus. Stretching over 161 hectares, the campus 
is larger than downtown Delft, and one of the largest university 
campuses in the world. The goal is that our campus is a vibrant and 
attractive place were students, employees, businesses, and visitors 
can meet, an ecosystem that enhances cooperation between the 
university and our surroundings.TU Delft Campus. In the coming two years 
this campus campus ecosystem will be 
further developed and supported, in line with 
research and innovation goals.
As the TU Delft community continues 
to grow, so do the city of Delft and our 
external partners. This puts pressure on 
the maximum capacity of the city and its 
citizens. Furthermore, this growth leads 
to an increasing demand for functions on 
campus, such as more student housing, 
more space for businesses and better 
infrastructure. Good coordination and 
cooperation with the municipality of Delft, 
student housing organisations and external 
partners is needed to find optimal solutions. 
We have the goal to become CO2 neutral 
in 2030 and this will entail large structural 
changes in our energy use, catering, 
mobility approach, waste management, 
water management and campus ecology. 
We can also look at ways to make better 
use of the existing spaces on campus by 
sharing them, especially when we continue 
to work, study, meet and learn partially 
from home and spaces on campus may 
potentially be left unused for parts of the 
week. An excellent university requires excellent 
support services that are efficient and 
effective. A university wide digital strategy 
will be developed in the coming years that 
will address the effects of digitalization 
on the core and operational process 
of the university. In order to make the 
services even more user-friendly, we 
need to consider processes as chains that 
sometimes exceed the boundaries between 
service departments. Implementation 
requires enhanced chain management 
and chain management policies, with the 
various services being well-matched at the 
central and faculty level, and with a solid 
and modern ICT base. We will also further 
develop a business intelligence capability 
that improves our understanding of TU Delft 
and the context in which we operate, and 
that facilitates decision-making based upon 
transparent and trusted information.
 
We are committed to establishing a healthy, 
safe and secure university. We develop 
an overall TU Delft risk and compliancy 
policy aligned with our vision, mission and 
strategic goals. On top of that, we will further 
strengthen the cybersecurity capability and 
continuously advocate information security 
as a shared, university wide, business 
responsibility. 
58 59“I am working with people from all over the campus 
and it is amazing to see their intrinsic motivation to 
make our campus carbon neutral, circular and climate 
adaptive. Together, projects are being set up all around 
the campus, ranging from new mobility projects to 
students planting trees for more biodiversity.”
Deirdre van Gameren
Sustainability researcher 

60 61
“You are at home 
where the campus flourishes.”
Maurice Sijthoff
Director of subsoil and public lighting
Ron Heijmenberg
Manager Sport
Cas Verhoeven
Head of Public Space Management

62 63For 2024Campus & Services
We will develop a new Campus Vision , that builds on past 
achievements and integrates all the needs and interests from different 
perspectives and provides an integrated base for making strategic 
decisions about the use of the campus.
We will periodically update the  Campus Strategy, detailing renovation and new 
construction to accommodate the growth and the goals of the university with regards 
to new ways of studying and working, social cohesion, the sustainability plan and the 
innovation ecosystem development, within the available means.
We will commence the  implementation of the sustainability plan  to become 
CO2 neutral, circular and climate adaptive in 2030, among others through the pilot 
projects on energy use in the buildings, food, mobility (especially air travel), waste 
management, water management and green on the campus. We will further develop our next level campus ecosystem  to ensure 
the ecosystem of the TU Delft Campus meets the needs of innovative 
companies with top talent, a strong start-up community, field labs, and 
research facilities in a wide range of research areas.
We will develop a university wide  digital strategy, in which we aim to 
improve the quality of interaction and communication among faculties 
and services to ensure that university (digital) services and operations 
can respond to demand and can deliver optimal support to our primary 
processes.
We will establish user-centric services  for all TU Delft users and 
design operational processes in an integrated and uniform way where 
possible. Moreover, we aim to put the end user in the driver seat of 
business intelligence and develop a vision for the disclosure of 
management information at all levels of control. 
We will improve our inclusive risk management  framework and 
implement that to systematically identify, manage and monitor risks 
at multiple levels and in different categories and determine the risk 
appetite. We will develop a uniform approach to health, safety and 
environmental awareness. 
We will further develop our university wide level of  information 
security, both in the supporting services as in the faculties.
64 65An implementation approach will be developed, in particular for the 
priorities that transcend the faculties or university services. The 
purpose of this approach is to: 
• Emphasize the urgency (given the risks and/or complexity of the issues) 
• Increase transparency and accountability with regard to (the pace of) the execution of 
activities 
• Strengthen coordination of implementation 
• Aim for cohesion between projects 
• Aim for coherence in the approaches to change and the connection between our primary 
processes and operations. 
• Make targeted capacity available for new processes, in addition to the regular activities 
that take place. The implementation approach needs to have a solid and transparent embedding within the 
organisation, preferably in the form of a strategic programme 2022-2024. 
The Executive Board therefore acts as the principal ‘’owner’’ of this programme, which will, 
in accordance with the internal portfolio allocation within the Executive Board, be divided 
into three subprogrammes. Each subprogramme will be coordinated by a member of the 
Executive Board in line with the portfolio allocation. 
The Strategic Priorities 2022-2024 and the corresponding implementation agenda will also 
be incorporated in the annual institutional budget. The budget is part of the Planning & 
Evaluation Cycle. 6Implementation
66 67Colofon
TU Delft Strategic Priorities 2022-2024
 
Vormgeving
Joost Groenewegen (i.o. Visual Communication)
 
Fotografie
Marcel Krijger
Beeldportal
Stockbeeld
 
Druk
Van der Heym
Mei 2022 - TU Delft
www.tudelft.nl
68

