TUM  Agenda 2030 
Innovation through 
talent, excellence 
and responsibility 
TUM in Bavaria 
1  TUM Campus Munic h
2  TUM Campus Garching 
3  TUM Campus Freising-Weihenstephan 
4  TUM Campus Straubing for   
 Biotechnology and Sustainability 
5  Geodetic Observatory, Wettzell 
6  Science & Study Center, Raitenhaslach 
7  Student Research Center,  
 Berchtesgadener Land 
8  Limnological Research Station, Iffeldorf 
9  Hydraulic Engineering and Water Economy  
 Research Institute, Obernach  
 (Oskar-von-Miller Institute)  
10  TUM Campus Heilbronn 
11  Geriatronics Research Center,  
 Garmisch-Partenkirchen 
12  Environmental Research Station  
 Schneefernerhaus Imprint 
Publisher 
Prof. Dr. Thomas F. Hofmann 
President of the Technical University of Munich 
Arcisstrasse 21 
80333 Munich, Germany 
Responsible for concept and editing 
Dr. phil. Clarissa Ruge 
Creative Director Image 
Arcisstrassse 21 
80333 Munich, Germany 
+49 89 289 25769 
ruge@zv.tum.de  
www.tum.de/en  
T ext 
LOOPING GROUP 
Prannerstrasse 11 
80333 Munich, Germany 
Translation and Proofreading 
BAKER & COMPANY 
Bergsonstrasse 65 
81245 Munich, Germany 
Design 
ediundsepp Gestaltungsgesellschaft mbH 
Domagkstrasse 1 
80807 Munich, Germany 
Printing
Kriechbaumer Druck GmbH & Co. KG 
Ehrenbreitsteiner Strasse 28
80993 Munich, Germany
Paper 
Printed on premium recycled paper made from 
100 % FSC-certified recycled fibers. 
Circulation 
2,500 copies 
Year of publication 
2021 
Images 
Page 1:  Matthias Kestel 
Page 3:  Thomas Dashuber Fotografie 
Page 4:  Astrid Eckert / TUM 
Page 6:  Magdalena Jooss 
Page 7:  Astrid Eckert / TUM 
Page 9:  ProLehre Medienproduktion 
Page 11:  Andreas Heddergott / TUM (pictures 1, 
2 from left); TUM Asia; Kurt Fuchs; ProLehre  
 Medienproduktion; Andreas Heddergott / TUM; 
MATT STARK photography; Tom Freudenberg 
Page 13:  Andreas Heddergott / TUM 
Page 14:  João M. Rosa / AmazonFACE 
10
12345
6
78
9
11
12
Funded by the Federal Ministry of 
 Education and Research (BMBF) and 
the Free State of Bavaria under the 
Excellence Strategy  of the  Federal 
Government and the LänderBavarian State Ministry of
Science and the ArtsSponsored by
Technical University of Munich | 3By pursuing its ambitious TUM AGENDA 2030, the 
 Technical University of Munich (TUM) is transforming 
research, innovation and education while creating a 
progressive university family that embraces change and 
works to make the world a better place. This vision 
will  make TUM a global hub of knowledge, create incom­
pa rable learning experiences, and focus on responsible 
innovations that meet the needs of society and nature. 
With our TUM Agenda 2030, we are ideally positioned to face 
the future. We have an unconventional mindset free from 
the constraints of individual disciplines and schools of thought, 
we are entrepreneurial in spirit, and we are focused on 
socially responsible innovation. 
In our pursuit of responsible innovations that benefit society, 
we are expanding the concept of engineering, opening it up to 
the humanities and social sciences by incorporating society’s 
values, needs and expectations into developing technologies. 
We are shifting from introverted silo mentalities to open, 
collaborative teams. We draw on the intelligence of the entire 
TUM family and mobilize our global partners. And we strive 
to supercharge our most powerful driver of innovation: our 
people! 
At TUM, a university with a profile of expertise unmatched 
anywhere in Europe, we consider ourselves to be obligated 
by the fundamental goal of the United Nations. We strive to 
make a significant contribution to preserving health, treating 
illnesses, creating a sustainable world, and shaping a 
 successful digital transformation. T o this end, we research 
the very fundamentals of our existence, the molecular codes of life, and the astounding diversity of the natural world. 
And we search for groundbreaking solutions to the greatest 
challenges facing our society. 
Being successful in this new decade will require an open 
culture of innovation. We are therefore making TUM a central 
player in an innovation ecosystem made up of research 
institutes, enterprises, technology companies, incubators 
and start ups. Our inquisitive, open-minded students play 
an active role in this work as a valued source of ideas. 
With deep roots in our native Bavaria, we achieve academic 
excellence and gain our innovative power by recognizing 
the individual talents, wide-ranging experience and diversity 
of the people in our TUM family. They are the key to our 
mission for the future. It is a future I am looking forward to. 
With my best regards, 
Prof. Thomas F. Hofmann,  
President of TUM 
 “People are at the heart of 
our aspirations. Following our 
 reform concept of‚ ‘human- 
centered engineering’, we are 
introducing the scientific 
and technical excellence of 
TUM into the world of ideas 
 discussed in modern society.” 
PROF. THOMAS F. HOFMANN 
San Francisco 
São 
Paulo Collaborations 
150+ partner universities 
worldwide 
Erasmus partnerships 
across Europe Flagship partners Euro T ech Alliance 
1  Danmarks Tekniske Universitet 
2  Technische Universiteit Eindhoven 
3  École Polytechnique Fédérale de  
 Lausanne 
4  École Polytechnique 
5  Technion –  
 Israel Institute of Technology 
6  Technical University of Munich 
International locations and 
strategic initiative s
Partner universities 
 < 10  <30  >30 TUM Global 
1956 
The Programmgesteuerte 
Elektronische Rechenanlage 
München (PERM) is developed. 
It is the fastest computer in the 
world at the time. 1928 
Hans Fischer synthesizes blood’s 
red colorant, hemin, in a test 
tube (Nobel Prize, 1930). 1868  
King Ludwig II of Bavaria founds 
the Polytechnische Schule 
München as a catalyst of 
industrialization. Milestones 
1893 
Graduate Rudolf Diesel develops 
the engine that will come to bear 
his name, based on an idea he 
had as a student.  www.international.tum.de/en 
350+ 
Mumbai 
Ghana:  
KNUST  Beijing 
Shenzhen: T singhua  
University 
University of Queensland Singapore: TUM Asia Brussels:  
Euro T ech 
Universities Imperial 
College 
 London 
As part of our TUM.Africa Initiative, 
we are forging long-term partner -
ships in the key areas of teaching, 
research and entrepreneurship on 
the African continent. 
2014 
Researchers map the human 
proteome. 2018 
The source of an extragalactic 
neutrino is identified for the 
first time. 1985 
Robert Huber unlocks the secrets 
of photosynthesis (Nobel Prize, 
1988). 2000 
The world’s first minimally 
invasive heart valve operation is 
performed. 1
2
6
34
5
4 | Technical University of Munich What Drives Us 
Sustainable innovations for humanity, society and nature 
Fishbowl discussion between postdocs and professors in the ceremonial hall at Raitenhaslach Abbey near Burghausen 

Technical University of Munich | 5academic excellence for our mission of responsible 
research and innovation,  while also providing a third 
dimension to our entrepreneurial spirit. 
3. We are instigating a paradigm shift in teaching.  Under the 
leadership of the new TUM Center for Study and T eaching, 
we are accelerating the transition from one-size-fits-all  
education towards a more personalized mix-and-match  
range of studies. We tailor our programs of study to the 
competence profiles required in professional careers 
(TUM Professional Profiles) and use innovative education 
technologies (TUM EdT ech Center) to convey new knowledge 
to students ever more effectively. 
4. We are connecting people across disciplinary, institutional 
and generational boundaries. We supercharge the most 
powerful driver of innovation – people! We strive to connect 
the youthful enthusiasm of school pupils and our interna -
tional student body’s thirst for knowledge with the specialist 
talents, experience and open networks of our teaching 
staff and contributors – across disciplinary and cultural 
boundaries. We are turning TUM into a creative space 
that enables bright minds from the worlds of science, busi-
ness, politics and society to gather and pool their talents, 
exchange ideas, inspire one another, challenge one another, 
upskill and collaborate in promising fields of innovation, 
with the common goal of shaping the world of tomorrow. TUM AGENDA 2030:  
Sustained dynamic of 
 regeneration 
Five guiding principles represent the networking of all 
disciplines and the transformation of TUM from a 
 subject ­focused institution to a University of Excellence 
based on system integration. 
1. We are creating an internal structure that promotes 
 innovation. We are transforming our internal structure from 
15 distinct faculties to an academically dynamized matrix 
organization that promotes innovation. At the core of this 
new vision are seven schools that cover the entire port-
folio of major scientific domains. Situated at the interfaces 
between these schools, Integrative Research Institutes 
connect the methods, tools and knowledge of different 
disciplines and address system-wide challenges and 
far-reaching future-focused issues with transdisciplinary 
approaches to research and teaching. 
We are fostering collective creativity.  Establishing the TUM 
Institute for Advanced Study (TUM-IAS) has created a 
gateway for TUM to the world of interdisciplinary cutting-  
edge research. Through the Munich Data Science Institute 
and the Munich Design Institute, we are establishing data 
sciences, design thinking and design aspects as key 
integrative actors in our innovative research and teaching 
agenda. TUM Innovation Networks and their transdisci -
plinary teams draw on the university’s collective creativity 
to explore high-risk yet promising areas of innovation 
and help them to reach critical mass. 
2. We are integrating the humanities and social  sciences. 
We are significantly expanding our portfolio of technically-  
oriented humanities and social sciences in the new 
TUM School of Social Sciences and T echnology. We are 
enabling domains to build their own profiles and, in 
keeping with our guiding principle of human-centered 
engineering,  are providing them with sufficient integrative 
valency and educational capacity to benefit the natural, 
engineering, life and economic sciences as well as the field 
of medicine. This lays the foundations and delivers the  www.exzellenz.tum.de/en  
6 | Technical University of MunichUniversity of Excellence: 
Cutting-edge research 
 centers 
In 2019, TUM was awarded the title of “University of 
Excellence” for the third time in succession. We are 
the only technical university to achieve this feat since the 
contest’s introduction by German federal and state 
 governments in 2006. 
TUM works with its partners to examine the highly relevant 
scientific issues of our time through research of the highest 
international standards in its Clusters of Excellence. These 
clusters enhance TUM’s global profile as one of Europe’s best 
universities and a leading technical university. 
e-conversion.  This Cluster of Excellence researches stable, 
efficient, sustainable power supplies and networks existing 
research expertise in nanoscience and energy science in the 
Munich region. It focuses on ultra-fast energy conversion 
processes in different technologies – from photovoltaics to 
(photo)electrocatalysis to battery technology. It generates 
insights that make it possible to design and synthesize energy 
materials with atomic precision. 
MCQST. The Munich Center for Quantum Science and T ech -
nology combines research from the fields of physics, 
 mathematics, informatics, material science, chemistry and 
cosmology with the aim of gaining a profound understanding 
of quantum-mechanical phenomena and thus advancing the 
fundamental components, materials and concepts of quantum technologies. Its interdisciplinary research ranges from 
analyzing entanglement in many-body systems to developing 
a new generation of quantum-based devices and sensors – 
such as scalable quantum computers, sensors for precise 
measurements, secure communication systems for everyday 
use, nanosensors for living cells, and novel quantum 
 materials. 
ORIGINS.  The evolution of the universe is one of the greatest 
mysteries humankind has faced. Origins is a Cluster of 
Excellence dedicated to unraveling it. It connects scientists 
and researchers from the fields of astrophysics, astrobiology, 
biophysics and particle physics to examine the fundamental 
phenomena of planet formation and the emergence of the first 
prebiotic molecules. 
SyNergy. The Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology 
research es how neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis 
and Alzheimer’s develop. Due to the highly complex nature 
of the human nervous system, numerous processes can 
influence the emergence of neurodegenerative diseases. This 
Cluster of Excellence follows an interdisciplinary approach 
drawing on systems biology, bioinformatics, systems neurosci -
ence and clinical neurology. 
Prof. Elisa Resconi and her team observe neutrinos that reach 
Earth from outer space. She is part of the successful ORIGINS 
Cluster of Excellence.  www.exzellenz.tum.de/en  

Technical University of Munich | 7A global hub of knowledge: 
Lifelong learning 
In an age of social change, we are turning TUM into a 
lifelong education partner supporting professionals. 
We are creating a global hub of knowledge to which not 
only alumni but also other specialists from the fields 
of business, politics and society can return as “adult 
learners” to upskill through educational opportunities 
rooted in science. 
The world is in a state of flux – with enormous consequences 
for the world of work and the requirements each of us will 
have to meet in future. We are therefore initiating a fundamental 
transformation in teaching, moving towards lifelong, con-
tinuous learning. We help professionals to refresh their skills 
profiles, expand them through modular learning, and over -
come the future challenges posed by a changing labor market 
in a responsible and effective manner. 
Our courses focus on interdisciplinary fields, such as manage -
ment and leadership, and build on the many years of experi -
ence of our teaching staff at the TUM School of Management. 
However, rather than simply copying typical business schools, 
in the TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning (TUM IL 3) we 
are creating a novel institution fit to meet future demands. 
Our customized range of studies uniquely integrates state- of-
the-art skills from our extensive portfolio of engineering sciences, natural sciences, life sciences and social sciences, 
as well as the field of medicine – supported by the latest 
learning methods and innovative (often digital) formats. 
What is more, TUM IL 3 also organizes internal professional 
development opportunities for our staff. This ranges from 
helping all our staff to develop interdisciplinary skills and pro -
moting our professors’ teaching and leadership skills to offering 
a training program for our non-professorial teaching staff. 
As an entrepreneurially minded and socially responsible 
university, we perceive TUM IL 3 as a key lever with which to 
set a course for the future. 
 TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning 
The aim of the TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning is to 
promote advanced education rooted in science in fields 
such as management and leadership for international 
professionals from the worlds of science, business and 
society. By adopting innovative education formats, the 
TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning equips internal and 
external leaders with the skills they need to overcome 
current and future social challenges in a responsible and 
effective manner. 
 www.tum.de/en/lifelong-learning/  The Women of TUM network promotes international 
exchange between women in business and science, such 
as at this event held in 2016. 

23 
Leibniz Prizes 
8 | Technical University of Munich Figures are up to date as of 2020. 73 
patents filed Over 170 
programs of study Over 9,000 
publications per year 
1,115 
doctorates conferred at TUM 
in examination year 2019/20 36  %   
female students 
34  %   
international students Around 83,000   
members in our Alumni Network 8,904   
graduates in examination 
year 2019/20 8 
Humboldt Professorships 2 
German Future Prizes 
awarded to researchers and 
alumni 
144 
ERC grants 
(as of April 2021) Around  650 
spin-off companies since 
1990 17 
Nobel Prizes awarded to 
 researchers and alumni 
54th 
Academic Ranking of World  
Universities (“Shanghai Ranking”) Insights 
People Prizes 
Rankings 53 
4,224 177 
9,643 612 
professorships 
45,356  
students 1920/21 
1920/21 1970/71 
1970/71 2020/21 
2020/21 Professorships 
Students 1 
German Startup Monitor 
12th 
Global University Employability 
Ranking (Times Higher Education) 
41st 
Times Higher Education 
World University Ranking 50th 
QS World University Ranking 
29th in Engineering 
31st in Natural Sciences Our Successes 
 Facts and figures 
Total budget incl. Klinikum:  
over € 1.77 billion 
211 
invention disclosures  
submitted 
Technical University of Munich | 9We are “updating” the DNA of the Technical University of 
Munich, 150 years after its foundation. The matrix orga­
nization we will establish will comprise seven schools and 
integrative research centers, explicitly targeting trans­
disciplinary innovations in teaching and research. 
Narrow, limited faculty-specific teaching and research programs 
are no longer able to keep pace with the need to develop 
systemic skills to compete in future. Efficiently creating system-  
integrative cooperative alliances is a decisive success factor 
when it comes to exploring as yet uncharted, interdisciplinary 
areas of science. For this reason, we are transforming our 
organizational structure from the current 15 faculties, which 
have grown gradually over time, to a matrix structure that 
will promote innovation. 
We are creating seven schools  with departments covering the 
entire portfolio of major scientific domains, which will serve 
to form an identity and provide calibration within international 
scientific communities. These schools are: • TUM School of Computation, Information and T echnology 
• TUM School of Engineering and Design 
• TUM School of Natural Sciences 
• TUM School of Life Sciences 
• TUM School of Medicine and Health 
• TUM School of Management 
• TUM School of Social Sciences and T echnology 
Situated at the interfaces between these schools  Integrative 
Research Institutes (IRI) will address system-wide challenges 
and wide-ranging, future-focused issues through transdiscipli-
nary approaches to research and teaching. By making this 
change, we are exploring new methods to focus intellectual 
abilities in highly promising fields of innovation, in the hope 
that cross-school, mission-driven collaboration will yield a visi -
ble impact in international competition. Examples include 
biomedical engineering, robotics and machine intelligence, 
energy systems, process engineering, biotechnology and 
sustainability. 
This goal is also served by the TUM Innovation Networks.  
This new format of collaborative research brings together 
 academic talent from different disciplines more efficiently than 
ever before through a bottom-up approach, thereby  We Are Shaping the 
Future with an 
 Integrative Systems 
Approach 
From a faculty ­based system to a modern matrix organization 
10 | Technical University of Munich encouraging them to adopt visionary research approaches, 
explore genuinely uncharted scientific territory and test out 
its potential for development – before anyone else has dared 
to do the same. 
By adopting the new matrix structure, TUM is also responding 
to the need to modernize our teaching. It is a historic reform: 
we are moving away from one-size-fits-all  education towards 
more personalized, feedback-based mix-and-match  programs 
of study with the flexibility to meet the evolving demands of 
global job markets (TUM  Professional Profiles)  and do justice 
to our students’ talents and motivations. Supported by 
digital teaching and examination formats (hybrid learning), this 
approach will ensure issues are addressed in detail while 
 identifying interdisciplinary applications, continuously forge 
connections to the humanities, social sciences and eco-
nomics, while remaining compatible with lifelong learning and 
development. 
Through this overall strategy, we will replace introverted silo 
mentalities with collaborative networks in research, teaching 
and innovation, bringing together the combined intelligence of 
the entire TUM family and our global partners.  Munich Data Science Institute (MDSI) 
The breathtaking progress in data generation, data utiliza-
tion and computing architecture have triggered a para -
digm shift in the world of research. Machine learning and 
artificial intelligence (AI) have brought about technologi-
cal innovations and will revolutionize our society in various 
dimensions. This is the focus of research at the MDSI. 
 www.mdsi.tum.de/en  
TUM Schools 
Engineering & Design 
Biotechnology & Sustainability Data Sciences Computation, Information & Technology 
BioMedical Engineering Robotics & Machine Intelligence Social Sciences & Technology Management Medicine & Health Life Sciences 
Energy & Process Engineering Technology Design Technology Design Integrative 
Research 
 Institutes Natural Sciences 
Astronautics research will now 
also take place on the TUM Campus 
Taufkirchen/Ottobrunn 
Technical University of Munich | 11Robotics & Machine Intelligence TUM Campus Downtown Munich 
TUM Campus Heilbronn TUM Campus Straubing 
TUM Campus Weihenstephan TUM Campus Garching TUM Science and Study Center Raitenhaslach 
 TUM Asia Singapore 
12 | Technical University of Munich  TUM Entrepreneurship Center 
From the initial idea through to the growth phase, the 
TUM Entrepreneurship Center offers extensive support 
and  services to technology-oriented company founders. 
This includes MakerSpace, a high-tech workshop equipped 
for prototype construction and small-series production, 
as well as office spaces and workstations in the 
TUM  Incubator. 
 TUM Venture Labs 
What are the aims behind the new TUM Venture Labs? 
To promote entrepreneurial spirit and entire families 
of start-ups in key technological fields – and thereby 
position the Munich metropolitan region as the European 
start-up champion. 
 www.tum.de/en/venture-labs  
 
 UnternehmerTUM 
A team of 240 staff supports young founders. They support 
start-ups from the initial idea through to the IPO, offering 
their expertise on company setup, market entry and financ -
ing. UnternehmerTUM has already produced many 
successful start-ups. 
 www.unternehmertum.de/en  
 
 Munich Urban Colab 
Munich’s Schwabing district is home to TUM’s new creative 
quarter. Spread across five stories and 11,000 square 
meters, it offers space for workshops, fitness studios, 
winter gardens and, above all, more than 250 start-ups. 
 www.unternehmertum.de/en/about/munich-urban-colab  We Foster 
 Entrepreneurial  Talent 
With 70 to 80 technology ­based spin ­off companies per year,  
TUM is on course to become the European start ­up champion 
Innovation catalysts And the stage is set for even more start ­ups in future: TUM 
is further strengthening its collaboration with partners 
from the world of business and applying the results of our 
basic and applied research in market ­oriented innovation 
processes and technologies. 
Following our conviction that integrating young founders in 
an inspiring scientific environment is the most promising 
way to ensure that technology-based start-ups have an 
enduring impact on social change, we are striving to secure 
a leading position in Europe for our innovation ecosystem. 
In addition, as part of the TUMentrepreneurship program, we 
are working with the TUM Entrepreneurship Research 
Institute and our affiliated research institute UnternehmerTUM 
to provide enduring support for the establishment of growth-  
focused and technology-based companies – from the 
ideation phase through to their foundation and successful 
market positioning and into their growth phrase. 
In doing so, we have become Germany’s leading higher 
education institution for start-ups. Every year, we bring 
about 70 to 80 tech start-ups to market. TUM start-ups 
attracted more than € 1 billion in investments in 2019. 
In conjunction with UnternehmerTUM and with the aim of 
becoming a European leader in the foundation of growth-  
oriented technology start-ups, we have begun to surround 
the university with a network of innovation centers and 
incubators. The TUM Venture Labs are aimed at developing 
deep  tech start up families around selected technological 
focal points. They provide the necessary development envi-
ronment – from the technical and social infrastructure to 
entrepreneurship coaching and support from networks of 
businesses and investors. 
This has given rise to an entrepreneurial mindset that attracts 
students interested in founding their own company to TUM 
and actively supports them, from the initial idea to the 
foundation and through to market launch. T o facilitate this, 
we network with our alumni and emeriti, who act as ambas -sadors with a global sphere of influence, and connect with 
our many collaboration partners, who significantly broaden 
our reach. Students working on develop -
ment of the Hyperloop. 
 www.tum.de/en/entrepreneurship  
 TUM Entrepreneurship Center 
From the initial idea through to the growth phase, the 
TUM Entrepreneurship Center offers extensive support 
and  services to technology-oriented company founders. 
This includes MakerSpace, a high-tech workshop equipped 
for prototype construction and small-series production, 
as well as office spaces and workstations in the 
TUM  Incubator. 
 TUM Venture Labs 
What are the aims behind the new TUM Venture Labs? 
To promote entrepreneurial spirit and entire families 
of start-ups in key technological fields – and thereby 
position the Munich metropolitan region as the European 
start-up champion. 
 www.tum.de/en/venture-labs  
 
 UnternehmerTUM 
A team of 240 staff supports young founders. They support 
start-ups from the initial idea through to the IPO, offering 
their expertise on company setup, market entry and financ -
ing. UnternehmerTUM has already produced many 
successful start-ups. 
 www.unternehmertum.de/en  
 
 Munich Urban Colab 
Munich’s Schwabing district is home to TUM’s new creative 
quarter. Spread across five stories and 11,000 square 
meters, it offers space for workshops, fitness studios, 
winter gardens and, above all, more than 250 start-ups. 
 www.unternehmertum.de/en/about/munich-urban-colab  
Technical University of Munich | 13
14 | Technical University of Munich  AmazonFACE 
This international project researches the impacts of climate 
change in the rainforest. FACE stands for “Free Air CO₂ 
Enrichment” , the term given to a technical experimental 
set-up that generates a defined concentration of carbon 
dioxide outdoors. 
 www.lsai.wzw.tum.de/en  
 
 View into the Future (BLIZ) 
How will ecosystem services and biodiversity develop in 
Bavaria? The interdisciplinary collaborative project 
BLIZ develops new scenarios for sustainable ecosystem 
management in Bavaria. Its aim is to develop specific 
guidelines and assess possible uncertainties. 
 www.bayklif-bliz.de  
 
 TUM Straubing Campus for Biotechnology and  
 Sustainability (TUMCS) 
Developing sustainable technologies and guiding commer -
cial implementation – two major topics brought together by 
the TUM Straubing Campus, which acts as an Integrative 
Research Institute of the Technical University of Munich in 
cooperation with the Weihenstephan-Triesdorf University 
of Applied Sciences. This requires specialists in natural and 
technical sciences, chemical scientists, biotechnologists 
and engineers who also have a broad understanding of eco -
nomic and social coherences, as well as economists who 
speak engineers’ language. 
 www.cs.tum.de/?lang=en  
 
 Werner Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology   
 (WSSB) 
Carbon fiber components are extremely lightweight and 
robust. Until now, producing these components has 
required crude oil. In the Green Carbon project, the Werner 
Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology at TUM 
collaborates with partner businesses to produce the 
material sustainably from algae and yeasts. 
 www.department.ch.tum.de/en/wssb  
In future, we want to gauge ourselves more closely against 
what we do to promote sustainability in our society – at 
economic, ecological and social levels. Of course, we will 
expand our research and teaching activities in modern 
agricultural and plant sciences, bioeconomics and the fields 
of energy, mobility and climate research, searching for 
innovative solutions to promote the sustainable development 
of our planet. However, we also aim to make sustainability a 
more integral element of our own organizational and campus 
development. Future generations of students will favor 
studying and working at a university that leads by example 
A Fresh Perspective – 
 and Sustainable Action! 
Sustainability and organizational development in research, 
 teaching  and  innovation 
– by making energy savings, increasing resource efficiency, 
and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and environmental 
pollution as far as possible. These very considerations were 
among those incorporated into the concept for TUM’s 
 Friedrich N. Schwarz Research Station, which allows us to 
explore the Alpine ecosystem and trial new forms of 
 scientific teaching. Given its significance, we have anchored 
the topic of sustainability at the heart of our university in 
the form of the TUM Sustainability Office.  We hope that the 
TUM Sustainability Taskforce will help us to reflect self-  
critically on our actions, highlight where action is needed, 
Technical University of Munich | 15 AmazonFACE 
This international project researches the impacts of climate 
change in the rainforest. FACE stands for “Free Air CO₂ 
Enrichment” , the term given to a technical experimental 
set-up that generates a defined concentration of carbon 
dioxide outdoors. 
 www.lsai.wzw.tum.de/en  
 
 View into the Future (BLIZ) 
How will ecosystem services and biodiversity develop in 
Bavaria? The interdisciplinary collaborative project 
BLIZ develops new scenarios for sustainable ecosystem 
management in Bavaria. Its aim is to develop specific 
guidelines and assess possible uncertainties. 
 www.bayklif-bliz.de  
 
 TUM Straubing Campus for Biotechnology and  
 Sustainability (TUMCS) 
Developing sustainable technologies and guiding commer -
cial implementation – two major topics brought together by 
the TUM Straubing Campus, which acts as an Integrative 
Research Institute of the Technical University of Munich in 
cooperation with the Weihenstephan-Triesdorf University 
of Applied Sciences. This requires specialists in natural and 
technical sciences, chemical scientists, biotechnologists 
and engineers who also have a broad understanding of eco -
nomic and social coherences, as well as economists who 
speak engineers’ language. 
 www.cs.tum.de/?lang=en  
 
 Werner Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology   
 (WSSB) 
Carbon fiber components are extremely lightweight and 
robust. Until now, producing these components has 
required crude oil. In the Green Carbon project, the Werner 
Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology at TUM 
collaborates with partner businesses to produce the 
material sustainably from algae and yeasts. 
 www.department.ch.tum.de/en/wssb  
Examples of sustain -
able TUM projects A view of the central meteorological tower in one of the 
parcels of rainforest land used by the AmazonFACE 
research project. 
and implement targeted projects and effective measures so 
that TUM develops more sustainably – across all levels: 
teaching, research, innovation, administration and, of course, 
the development of our locations. In doing so, we aim to 
play our part in creating not only a sustainable society but 
also a more resilient economy, an issue that has increasingly 
come to light in the current global crisis. 
 www.tum.de/sustainability  
Our Mission 
We are committed to making sustainable, innovative progress 
for the benefit of humankind, nature and society 
Moving forward with 
inquisitive minds 
Change remains our constant. We learn from our 
experiences and scrutinize the consequences of 
our actions. We are geared to addressing new challen-
ges and seizing opportunities to promote the 
 sustainable development of scholarship, ecology, the 
economy, health, and social relationships – in turn 
generating joy, motivation and performance power that 
drives us forward. Teams, not silos 
We are reorganizing our internal structure to improve 
our efficacy, moving from a faculty-based system 
to a matrix organization that promotes innovation, 
comprising schools, departments and interdisci-
plinary  research centers. In doing so, we aim to convert 
strategic development potential into innovations with 
greater efficiency, accelerate the foundation of spin-
offs, and improve our operational agility to ensure 
we are fit to face the future. 
A focus on people 
In an age of technological change, we must reflect on 
the consequences of our actions and research with 
due regard to all economic, ecological, social, political, 
and ethical implications. We pursue innovations not 
for the sake of technological progress but for the good 
of humankind and to preserve a livable environment. 
The principle of human-centered engineering  pervades 
our research, innovation and teaching.A culture of 
 lifelong   learning 
Our teaching focuses on the competence profiles 
required in the employment markets of the future. 
We are constantly developing our teaching and training 
concepts. As a lifelong learning partner, we seek to 
ensure the continued professional success of our own 
staff, our alumnae and alumni, plus specialists from 
the fields of business, politics and society, by offering 
continuous training and education firmly rooted in 
science. 
 Our mission statement 
You can find more information about our vision, 
 mission, core values and guiding principles at: 
 www.tum.de/mission-statement
