 
Plan 
Vice-Chancellor  
Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
 1 July 2022 
Page 1 (11)  
 
    
 
 
 
STRATEGIC PLAN  
FOR UMEÅ UNIVERSITY  
2023–2025  
 
 
 
 
 
Type of document:  Plan  
Date:  1 July 2022 (date of approval)  
Reg. no.:  FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
Approved by:  Vice -Chancellor  
Validity:  1 January 2023 until 31 December 2025  
Field:  Governance, finance, planning and follow -up 
Office in charge:  Planning Office  
Replaces document:  Strategic plan  for Umeå University 2020 –2022  
(FS 1.31. -151-20) 
 
  
 
Plan 
Vice-Chancellor  
Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
 1 July 2022 
Page 2 (11)  
 
    
 
Table of contents  
1. Description  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 3 
2. Background  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 3 
3. Purpose  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  4 
4. Points of departure  ................................ ................................ ........................  4 
5. Themes, focus areas and activities linked to Umeå University’s vision  ........  4 
5.1 Strategic Council for Education (USR)  ................................ ................  5 
5.2 Strategic Council for Research and Doctoral Education (FOSTRA)  .... 6 
5.3 Strategic Council for the Administration (RADON)  ............................  8 
5.4 Strategic Council for Equal Opportunities (LIV)  ...............................  10 
5.5 Strategic Council for Digitalisation (DIGA)  ................................ ........  11 
 
 
  
 
Plan 
Vice-Chancellor  
Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
 1 July 2022 
Page 3 (11)  
 
    
 
1. Description  
This document contains the strategic plan  for Umeå University for the period 2023 –2025, 
including themes and focus areas and the learning outcomes or results to be achieved 
(indicators). The purpose of the plan is to develop Umeå University’s operations.  
2. Background  
Umeå University’s vision is the  foundation for operational planning at all levels of the 
organisation. This vision has three guiding principles:  
1. Responsibility for the future  
2. Collaborative development of knowledge  
3. Competitive edge and pride  
This section describes the responsibility that Umeå University assumes for meeting 
societal challenges, how the University intends to further the development of research 
and education and, finally, how we wish to position ourselves in the world and increas e 
our ability to attract students, staff, partners and funding.  
Operational planning at Umeå University is based on our vision and financial framework. 
The planning period 2023 –2025 is the same for strategic al planning and for the 
University’s budget. The  allocation of our government appropriation is regulated in the 
appropriation directions to the University. These directions also include certain national 
objectives and assignments. These are followed up on an annual basis in the University’s 
Annual Repor t, as well as through dialogue between the University Management and the 
faculty management s or equivalent organisational units. The University’s budget supports 
the plans of the organisation. In certain areas, the University’s development work is 
specifie d in separate action plans. These have various periods of validity and are followed 
up under separate arrangements.  
Umeå University has a zero tolerance policy on victimisation and sexual harassment or 
other forms of harassment and conducts continuous improvement throughout the 
organisation. Work to achieve this vision of zero harassment and victimisation is an 
ongoing process involving a range of measures and as such remains a priority during this 
operational period.  
One prerequisite for the University’s ability to develop its educational and research 
activities is that improvement work is conducted and followed up within each faculty or 
equivalent organisational unit, as well as at university -wide l evel. This strategic plan  is 
therefore based on both previous faculty strategic plan s and the areas identified by 
University Management and strategic councils as important to develop and monitor at 
university -wide level. The operational plan covers a three -year period in order to promote 
a flexible, long -term approach.  
 
Plan 
Vice-Chancellor  
Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
 1 July 2022 
Page 4 (11)  
 
    
 
The student, work environment, collaboration, sustainability, accessibility and 
international perspectives have been integrated into the operational plan. This document 
is expected to have p ositive effects on gender equality at Umeå University in accordance 
with the Government’s appropriation directions to higher education institutions.  
The operational plan has been translated into English due to its importance to staff and 
students.  
3. Purpose  
Umeå University’s strategic plan  for the period 2023 –2025 is intended:  
• as a tool for strategic planning at university -wide level; and  
• to strengthen, coordinate and make visible work in areas prioritised by University 
Management, faculties and strategic co uncils and as such should be implemented 
at university -wide level as a complement to the work of faculties.  
4. Points of departure  
The strategic plan  covers a number of themes. The tables in section 5 show how these 
themes and associated focus areas and activ ities link to Umeå University’s vision. They 
also state how themes are to be followed up.  
Umeå University’s Strategic Council for Research and Doctoral Education (FOSTRA),  
Strategic Council  for Education (USR), Strategic Council for Administration (RADON),  
Strategic Council for Equal Opportunities (LIV) and Strategic Council for Digitalisation 
(DIGA) are responsible for developing and following up themes that fall within their area 
of responsibility.  
In following up a theme, it should be apparent whether Um eå University is moving in the 
direction of the vision in terms of creating learning and development.  
5. Themes , focus areas and activities linked to 
Umeå University’s vision  
To explicate the contents of the  Strategic Plan for Umeå University 2023 –2025, each 
strategic council has its own table. The information in the tables is based on the 
operational plan for the previous period with links to the vision. To clarify areas of 
responsibility, content is linked to strategic councils.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 Strategic Council for Education (USR)  
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES OR RESULTS TO 
BE ACHIEVED (INDICATORS)  
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HIGH -QUALITY 
EDUCATION  
 
The quality 
management system 
for education is the 
hub of quality 
assurance.  Umeå University attracts diverse 
students who enrich the academic 
environment with their wealth of 
experiences and perspectives.  
 Broader recruitment and 
participation is integrated into the 
quality management system.  
 
 Continuous monitoring and analysis of 
recruitment of underrepresented 
groups in terms of gender, social 
background, nationality, ethnicity and 
age. 
 
USR regularly checks on the work 
being carried out to broaden 
recruitment and participation.  
 The composition, development and achieved 
learning outcomes of the student body are 
monitored and analysed over time.  
 
 
Umeå University offers flexible courses  
and study programmes that meet the 
needs of a changeable labour market 
that implies the need for  lifelong 
learning.  
 
Successful professionals and highly 
motivated students choose Umeå 
University because of the creative 
academic environment, high teaching 
standards and first -class infrastructure.  
 Renewal of education and the range 
of courses and programmes.  
 
USR develops forms of regular 
oversight of the range of courses and 
programmes on offer.  
 
An education digitalisation strategy 
is developed.  USR regularly assesses progress.  
 
Ongoing dialogue between USR and 
DIGA.  
 
 The national share of first -choice applicants 
who meet entry requirements is analysed 
over time.  
 
The merit rating of admitted students is 
analysed over time.  
 
Student satisfaction  according to the Student 
Barometer.  
 
By the end of the period, an education 
digitalisation strategy has been developed.  
 
The Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda are the 
driving force and inspiration for the new 
knowledge we create, develop and make 
available.  
 
How do they (students) obtain the 
necessary knowledge and preparedness 
to drive development and transition and, 
in the spirit of Umeå University, to excel 
in the environments they later find 
themselves in.  
 Integrate s ustainable development 
into courses and programmes by 
setting relevant learning outcomes, 
so that graduates of Umeå 
University have the necessary 
knowledge and understanding, 
competence and skills, and 
judgement and approach to 
contribute to a sustainable society.  
USR develops forms for regularly 
assessing progress.  USR regularly assesses progress.  
 
Analyses and good examples in annual 
reports and the University’s planned 
sustainability report.  
 Implementation of activities (quality 
management system).  
 
 
 
 
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 6 (11) 
 
 
    
 
5.2 Strategic Council for Research and Doctoral Education (FOSTRA)  
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES OR RESULTS 
TO BE ACHIEVED (INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HIGH -QUALITY, HIGH -
IMPACT RESEARCH  
 
 Groundbreaking research makes us 
a global leader in multiple 
disciplinary research domains.  
 
We reap the benefits and 
advantages of the breadth of our 
organisation and our tradition of 
collaboration. The University 
invests in creative and innovative 
study  and research environments 
that can tackle urgent challenges in 
the interests of a sustainable future.  Strengthen Umeå University’s 
culture of quality research.  
 
Develop, establish and use quality 
management systems in research.  
 
Work more actively and 
systematically to strategically 
renew our research.  
 
Promote increased 
interdisciplinary collaboration.  Follow up within the framework of 
the Quality System for Research 
project, as part of work with profile 
areas, in FOSTRA and in dialogue 
within the orga nisation.  Use of quality management systems for 
research . 
 
System to identify, support and work 
strategically with various areas, themes 
or profiles of research.  
 
New and strengthened support 
structures for interdisciplinary 
collaboration.  
 
 
We compete successfully for 
external funding, we are in demand 
as a partner and take our place in 
the national and international 
arena.  Strengthened analysis and 
research support.  Follow up indicators of research 
quality according to analysis plans.  Developme nt over time in comparison 
to other higher education institutions in 
terms of external grants awarded in 
competition, as well as published 
research and its impact.  
The University provides support 
and services to promote cutting -
edge research and innovation.  Support the transition to open 
science and create the conditions 
for research data management 
throughout the research process.  Follow up through the Research 
Data Management project.  Coherent and efficient management of 
research data through an  optimal 
support portfolio.  
Successful professionals and highly 
motivated students choose Umeå 
University. Good leadership at all 
levels inspires the personal and 
professional development of 
employees.  More offensive efforts to recruit, 
develop and retain researchers.  
 
Implementation of the Action Plan 
for HRS4R.  
 
Promote the quality and 
attractiveness of third -cycle 
studies.  Follow up within HRS4R and 
FOSTRA and in dialogue with the 
organisation.  
 
 
Follow up in FOSTRA and in 
dialogue with the organisation, as 
well as through the quality 
management system for education.  Development over time of applicants 
per announced position and 
appointments, including percentage 
from other higher education institutions 
and countries.  
 
In accordance with the  Action Plan for 
HRS4R 2020 –2025.  
 
 
 
 
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 7 (11) 
 
 
    
 
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES OR RESULTS 
TO BE ACHIEVED (INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
 
VISIBILITY AND 
INTERNATIONALISATION  Umeå University collaborates 
closely with strategically  
selected higher education 
institutions worldwide.   
 
 
 
The University’s staff have extensive 
networks and wield influence on 
external bodies where strategic 
issues are discussed and decisions 
made.  Stimulate all national and 
international collaboration in 
order to develop strategic 
relationships with higher 
education institutions in Sweden 
and abroad.  
 
Work proactively within the arenas 
where the national and 
international research agenda is 
set. Follow up indicators of 
international resear ch 
collaboration according to analysis 
plans.  
 
Follow up and coordinate strategic 
internationalisation activities in 
FOSTRA and in dialogue with the 
organisation.  
 Presence of Umeå University 
researchers on important bodies.  
 
Development over time in terms  of 
publications co-authored  with 
international collaborators.  
 
 
 
ETHICAL AWARENESS AND  
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  With scientific knowledge, 
commitment and an ethical 
approach, we contribute to a society 
that is better equipped to meet 
present and future challenges.  Strengthen ethical awareness and 
good research practice at the 
University.  
 
Strengthen the competitiveness of 
the University’s research into 
achieving SDGs.  
 
 Continuously follow up and 
coordinate activities in REDA1, 
FOSTRA and in dialogue with the 
organisation.  
 
Follow up indicators of the 
competitiveness of research into 
achieving SDGs.  Scientific production and citation 
impact within the scope of SDGs.  
 
Outcome of targeted calls linked to 
SDGs.  
 
Initiatives related to collaborati on and 
knowledge dissemination linked to 
SDGs.  
  
 
1 The council should promote good research practice . 
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 8 (11) 
 
 
    
 
5.3 Strategic Council for the Administration (RADON)  
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES OR 
RESULTS TO BE ACHIEVED 
(INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
 
TALENT ACQUISITION  Successful professionals and highly 
motivated students choose Umeå 
University because of the creative 
academic environment, high 
teaching standards and first -class 
infrastructure.  
 
 
 Recruit and retain qualified staff, 
with the emphasis on qualified 
teach ers and researchers.  
 
 Ongoing analysis of talent 
acquisition  needs with results 
published in annual reports.  
 
Regular review by RADON 
focusing on HR support for talent 
acquisition . The views of FOSTRA 
and USR to be obtained as and 
when appropriate.  
 
Coordination through dialogue 
within the organisation.  
 In accordance with the Action Plan for 
Talent Acquisition  2020 –2022.  
The current plan will be superseded by 
the approved Action Plan for Talent 
Acquisition  2023 –2025.  
 
 
 
 
 
WORK AND STUDY 
ENVIRONMENT  Joint efforts to ensure a sustainable 
working life create a good work 
environment and make the 
University an attractive employer. 
Good leadership at all levels 
inspires  the personal and 
professional development of 
employees.  
 Work actively and systematically 
to ensure a good work and study 
environment and equal 
opportunities.  
Work actively to promote mental 
health among students.  
Work actively to support students 
who need assistance with their 
studies.  Ongoing follow -up and analysis  of 
work environment needs with 
results published in annual 
reports.  
 
Regular review by RADON 
focusing on the work and study 
environment.  The views of 
FOSTRA and USR to be obtained 
as and when appropriate.  
 
Coordination through dialogue 
within the organisa tion.  
 In accordance with the Action Plan for 
Systematic Work Environment and 
Active Measures for Umeå University  
 
  
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 9 (11) 
 
 
    
 
THEME  VISION  
 FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY  FOLLOW UP  LEARNING OUTCOMES OR 
RESULTS TO BE ACHIEVED 
(INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT  The University’s geographical 
location provides unique 
opportunities to contribute  to new, 
globally significant knowledge 
driven and inspired by the SDGs of 
the 2030 Agenda. We reap the 
benefits and advantages of the 
breadth of our  organisation and our 
tradition of collaboration. The 
University invests in creative and 
innovative study and research 
environments that can tackle urgent 
challenges in the interests of a 
sustainable future.  Through its proactive approach 
and innovative w orking methods, 
the University works to achieve a 
sustainable society and the SDGs 
of the 2030 Agenda.  Ongoing follow -up and analysis of 
the action plan  with results 
published in the planned 
sustainability report and annual 
reports.  
 
Regular review by RADON 
focusing on systematic 
sustainability processes and 
sustainability performance within 
administration and services. The 
views of FOSTRA and USR to be 
obtained as and when 
appropriate.  
 
Annual review in accordance with 
the Regulation for Environmental 
and Sustainability Work.  
 
Coordination through dialogue 
within the organisation.  
  In accordance with the Action Plan for 
Climate and Sustainability 2021 –
2023, with the emphasis on strategic 
climate and sustainability objectives 
for the period until 2030.  
 
  
  
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 10 (11) 
 
 
    
 
5.4 Strategic Council for Equal Opportunities (LIV)  
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES OR RESULTS TO 
BE ACHIEVED (INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITIES   
 
 Umeå University is characterised by an 
inclusive culture in which gender 
equality, diversity and equal 
opportunities are self -evident.  
 
 The University must strive to ensure 
that the gender equality perspective 
permeates the entire organisation.  
 
The University must work 
systematically to combat all forms of 
discrimination and to promote equal 
rights and opportunities regardless 
of sex, tr ansgender identity or 
expression, ethnicity, religion or 
other belief, disability, sexual 
orientation or age.  Follow -up and analysis in annual 
reports.  
 
Follow -up and analysis based on 
organisational units’ operational 
plans.  
 
Ongoing coordination throug h 
dialogue within the organisation.  
 
Follow up in staff surveys and the 
Student Barometer.  
 
Regular review in LIV to promote and 
strategically support ongoing gender 
mainstreaming and active measures.  In accordance with the Action Plan for 
Gender Mainstrea ming 2021 –2025.  
 
In accordance with Action Plan for 
Systematic Work Environment and Active 
Measures for Umeå University . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Plan 
   Vice-Chancellor  
   Reg. no.: FS 1.3.1 -987-22 
                    
                   Page 11 (11) 
 
 
    
 
5.5 Strategic Council for Digitalisation (DIGA)  
 
THEME   
VISION  
  
FOCUS AREA/ACTIVITY   
FOLLOW UP   
LEARNING OUTCOMES 
OR RESULTS TO BE 
ACHIEVED 
(INDICATORS)  
 
 
 
 
 
DIGITALISATION  
 
 
 
 
 The University invests in creative and innovative study and 
research environments that can tackle urgent challenges in the 
interests of a sustainable future.  
 
A digitalisation strategy 
covering research and 
education, including related 
administration and 
infrastructure, in order to 
quality assure and futureproof 
a flexible, creative, cutting -
edge organisation at Umeå 
University.  Dialogue with the 
University’s other 
strategic councils: 
USR, FOSTRA, 
RADON and DIGA.  A digitalisation strategy is 
approved durin g 2023 and 
implemented during the 
period 2023 –2025.  Umeå University assumes responsibility for meeting future societal 
challenges and is a role model among European higher education 
institutions.  
 
Umeå University offers flexible courses and study programmes that 
meet the needs of a changeable labour market that implies the need 
for lifelong learning.  
 
Umeå University meets the increasing demands for 
competitiveness that globalisation brings.  
 
The University provides support and services to promote cutting -
edge education, research and innovation.  
 
Successful professionals and highly motivated students choose 
Umeå University because of the creative academic environment, 
high teaching standards and first -class infrastructure.  
 
Joint efforts to ensure a sustainable working life create a good work 
environment and make the University an attractive employer. 
Good leadership at all levels inspires the personal and professional 
development of employees.  
 
 
