UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 1
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA
STRATEGIC PLAN
2022–2027
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 2We are delighted and proud to present the University of Iowa’s Strategic Plan 2022–2027. This plan positions our 
institution for success in the coming years, with priorities in:
 y student, faculty, and staff success
 y transformational research and discovery
 y diversity, equity, and inclusion
 y holistic well-being
 y public engagement and impact embedded throughout all the above areas.
Our overarching goal is to be a destination university of first choice for talented faculty, staff, and students. 
Throughout the process, we have kept a focus on leveraging our existing strengths to identify areas of opportunity 
that will advance our mission as a premier public research university. 
The plan evolved from a truly collaborative process. It was developed with broad campus consultation and 
supported by strong data assessment. We have taken collegiate and central unit plans into consideration; 
conducted numerous listening sessions and focus groups; offered two online feedback opportunities; and 
collaborated with Shared Governance, the Council of Deans, the President’s Cabinet, the UI Center for Advancement, 
and more. I thank the Strategy Team, the Strategic Plan Development Teams, the Data and Assessment Team, and 
everyone else who has participated in this important and enlightening process. 
The University of Iowa is fortunate to enjoy comprehensive strengths across the institution, from the liberal arts and 
sciences to professional programs to a wide array of health sciences and one of the largest and most acclaimed 
academic medical centers in the country. We are also proud of our culture of creativity at Iowa that is the engine 
of innovation across disciplines. And we celebrate a powerful, vibrant sense of community here. These widely 
recognized characteristics have fueled an ambitious strategic plan that will guide us in fulfilling our priorities, which 
in turn will move our university forward in addressing the needs of our state, nation, and world.
Barbara J. Wilson
President
PRESIDENT BARBARA J. WILSON
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 3
EXCELLENCE IN 
TEACHING LEARNING
INNOVATIVE RESEARCH 
AND CREATIVE 
DISCOVERY 
WELCOMING 
AND INCLUSIVE 
ENVIRONMENT
HOLISTIC  
WELL-BEING AND 
SUCCESS
TRANSFORMATIVE 
SOCIETAL IMPACTCONTENTS
Introduction  4
Mission, Vision, and Core Values  5
Planning Context  6 
Planning themes: Challenges and opportunities  7
Planning themes: Areas of distinction  7
Priorities  8
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies  8 
Excellence in teaching and learning  9
Innovative research and creative discovery  10
Welcoming and inclusive environment  11
Holistic well-being and success  12
Transformative societal impact  13
Metrics and Indicators of Progress  14
 
APPENDIX
Strategic Plan Development  17
Strategic Plan Implementation and Evaluation  19
Definitions  20
Teams Participating in Strategic Plan Development 21
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 4INTRODUCTION  
Founded in 1847 as Iowa’s first public institution of higher education, the University of Iowa has a rich history of 
innovation, creativity, and resilience. UI scholars, researchers, and artists have realized remarkable achievements 
that have had a tremendous impact on the world—and have established the UI as a locus of distinction in areas 
such as space physics, educational testing, creative writing, and health care. The UI’s tradition of leadership  
includes having been the first public university in the U.S. to admit women and men on an equal basis, among the 
first to admit students regardless of race, and the first to confer the Master of Fine Arts degree. Over its history, 
the UI community has weathered many challenges—including a 500-year flood in 2008, and most recently a global 
pandemic—but has never lost sight of its commitment to excellence and to those it serves. 
Today, the UI is one of the nation’s premier public research universities—and one of only a small number of 
universities nationwide to offer a full range of academic programs on a single campus, including arts, sciences, 
and humanities; professional programs; and comprehensive health sciences, with one of the largest and most 
acclaimed academic medical centers in the country. At the same time, as the second-smallest public member 
of the Big Ten Academic Alliance  (BTAA) according to total student enrollment, the UI pairs extraordinary 
opportunities with a personalized educational experience built on relationships and collaboration. The UI is proud 
to be the only public university (sitting with Duke, Yale, Harvard, and Stanford) ranked in the top 10 for writing across 
the disciplines , reflecting its commitment to teaching communication and writing skills throughout its 12 colleges. 
Iowa is a Carnegie R1 Doctoral University , a member of the prestigious Association of American Universities  (AAU), 
and an institution of global reach and impact. A student-centered university with undergraduate education at its 
core, Iowa offers both an impressive array of educational opportunities in and out of the classroom and vibrant 
programs in support of student success. 
As the university celebrates its 175th anniversary , it is charting a course that will build on its extraordinary history 
to lead to an even brighter future. Iowa will advance excellence in its core missions, accelerate progress in areas of 
strategic importance, and establish itself as a destination of first choice  for talented students, faculty, and staff.

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 5MISSION, VISION, AND CORE VALUES
MISSION
Upon its founding in 1847, the University of Iowa was entrusted by the state legislature with a threefold mission of 
teaching, research, and public service. In pursuing that mission today, the university
 y provides exceptional teaching and transformative educational experiences that prepare students for 
success and fulfillment in an increasingly diverse and global environment; 
 y advances scholarly and creative endeavor through leading-edge research and artistic production; and
 y brings learning and discovery into the service of the people of the state of Iowa, the nation, and the world, 
improving lives through education, health care, arts and culture, and community and economic vitality.
VISION
The University of Iowa will be the destination of first choice for a diverse and talented body of students, faculty, and 
staff, who will craft new chapters of exploration, discovery, creation, and engagement. Together, we will advance 
the university’s standing as one of the most distinguished public universities in the country.
CORE VALUES
Our core values frame both who we are and who we aspire to be as a university community. As we plan, set 
priorities, and make daily decisions about how to carry out our mission, we are guided by these five interdependent 
commitments:
Creativity —We discover new ways to see the world and make it better. 
We are dedicated to pursuing new knowledge and artistic creation and using those discoveries to have a 
transformative impact on our state and in our local, national, and global communities.
Community —We are committed to collaboration and active engagement. 
We value the contributions of every individual, while recognizing that our greatest successes come when we work 
together toward creative contributions—often across disciplines and departments, and often with community 
partners. 
Excellence —We expect the best from ourselves in all that we do.
We measure ourselves by exacting standards, honor high aspiration and achievement, and expect all members of 
the university community to strive for excellence.
Inclusion —We affirm and celebrate all backgrounds and identities.
We achieve excellence by attracting and retaining a diverse, talented population of students, faculty, and staff, 
and building a welcoming and accessible environment in which individuals feel valued and respected and have the 
opportunity to thrive.
Integrity —We are honest, fair, respectful, and ethical.
We hold ourselves to the highest standard of professional and scholarly ethics, are accountable for our decisions 
and actions, exercise responsible stewardship of the resources with which we are entrusted, and treat one another 
with honesty and fairness.
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 6PLANNING CONTEXT
Development  of the University of Iowa Strategic Plan for 2022–2027 took place during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
which critically affected university operations but also afforded an opportunity for the university to discover how 
nimble, resourceful, and resilient it can be in the face of unprecedented challenges. The pandemic compelled the 
university to engage in new ways of teaching and working, and highlighted the importance of attention to health 
and well-being. These experiences informed a series of strategies to better support the success and wellness of 
the university’s people as individuals and as a community.
The plan was informed by the university’s commitment to moving from a focus on diversity alone to a commitment 
to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Diversity (which the university defines  broadly to refer to all aspects of human 
difference) is essential, but is not by itself sufficient to the pursuit of excellence. Development of the plan also 
followed a period of continuing national conversation that contributed to heightened awareness of the need to 
advance diversity, equity, and inclusion at Iowa. This plan’s implementation begins at a time when the university 
community is broadly supportive of meaningful change toward a more respectful and inclusive culture in which 
individuals feel a sense of belonging.
Ongoing and emerging research, scholarship, and creative activities, including research contributing to the 
development of effective COVID-19 vaccines and treatments, also framed the content of the plan. In FY2021 the 
UI secured its highest-ever level of external funding, further contributing to the institution’s unique strengths and 
societal impact. To remain competitive over the next five years, it will be important for the UI to leverage its strength 
in interdisciplinary collaboration and to strategically pursue traditional and non-traditional funding opportunities in 
new and emerging areas.

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 7PLANNING THEMES: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES   
From summer 2021 through early spring 2022, members of the UI community participated in more than 60 listening 
sessions, key informant meetings, and focus groups—as well as submitting feedback online—to provide input into 
the developing strategic plan. Additional meetings were held with key external stakeholders to review the mission, 
vision, and overarching goals. Several prominent themes regarding the planning context, both pandemic-related 
and not, emerged from those feedback sessions. They included:
 y The impact of the pandemic on student academic and career preparation and learning , and on widening 
equity gaps that existed before the pandemic 
 y The need to provide enhanced support for teaching
 y The need to identify emerging research areas  for strategic growth and promote interdisciplinary 
collaboration in order to remain competitive in research funding and position UI researchers to have a 
positive impact on the world
 y The need for improved communication, coordination, and accountability in diversity, equity, and inclusion  
efforts
 y The importance of attention to well-being and mental health  for all members of the community
 y The need to evaluate flexible work opportunities  for some staff
 y The need to enhance career development opportunities for faculty and staff
 y The need to explore proactive, campuswide approaches to recruitment and retention of faculty
 y The need to seek new sources of revenue  and ensure both new and existing resources are aligned with 
strategic priorities
 y The need to strengthen and coordinate communication  to more effectively tell the story of the university’s 
excellence and impact and to understand better the needs of stakeholders
PLANNING THEMES: AREAS OF DISTINCTION
Participants in the feedback sessions also commented on what they perceive as Iowa’s areas of distinction—
strengths the university should protect, invest in, and leverage as it plans for the future. Points of pride that 
emerged from those discussions include:  
 y Exceptional breadth of academic programs , rooted in a strong liberal arts foundation that prepares students 
to succeed in an ever-changing, diverse world
 y The ability to offer students experiential learning opportunities  and unprecedented connections to world-
renowned scholars and practitioners
 y A culture of collaborative and interdisciplinary research  approaches to address societal challenges at a 
global level
 y Excellent and comprehensive health sciences  programs, translational research, and holistic patient care
 y World-class writing programs , a vibrant literary culture, and an emphasis on quality writing across 
disciplines 
 y Impact on every Iowan  through contributions to education, research, health care, economic and workforce 
development, cultural and artistic experiences, Big Ten athletics, and the presence of alumni and active 
partnerships in every county in Iowa 
 y Talented, engaged, inclusive, and collaborative students, faculty, and staff  who contribute to a vibrant 
environment for learning, innovation, and discovery
 y A uniquely integrated town and campus milieu , with vibrant partnerships between the university and  
Iowa City  
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 8PRIORITIES
The plan is organized around five priorities, which emerged from the work of the strategic plan development 
teams, the various feedback sessions held in summer and fall 2021, and collegiate and central administrative unit 
strategic plans finalized in spring 2021. The priorities are: Excellence in teaching and learning, innovative research 
and creative discovery, welcoming and inclusive environment, holistic well-being and success, and transformative 
societal impact.
 
These five priorities are interconnected, each 
informing the others in crucial ways, and none 
taking precedence. Innovative research, for 
example, plays a key role in the UI’s impact 
on the state of Iowa through economic 
development and the health and well-being 
of Iowans and their communities. Creating 
and maintaining an inclusive, welcoming, and 
equitable environment is crucial to excellence 
in teaching and learning, to successful 
research, to individual and community 
well-being, and to every other aspect of the 
university’s mission.
Taken as a whole, the five areas emphasize that the university’s priority is its people. Everything is done in support 
of those who come to campus—physically or virtually—to learn, teach, discover, create, and work; in support of the 
university’s partners in communities across the state of Iowa and around the world; and in support of patients, 
families, and others whose lives the university works to make better.
GOALS
 y Excellence in teaching and learning:  Foster high-quality teaching and dynamic educational experiences that 
empower all students to achieve their aspirations.
 y Innovative research and creative discovery: Advance the success of UI scholars, researchers, and artists 
and build on the university’s distinctive strengths in areas of current and emerging research and creative 
discovery.
 y Welcoming and inclusive environment:  Facilitate proactive campus cultural change to cultivate a more 
respectful, inclusive environment that embeds diversity and equity into the Iowa experience.
 y Holistic well-being and success: Provide a comprehensive foundation of support for individuals throughout 
all stages of their relationship with the university, beginning by attracting and retaining talented students, 
faculty, and staff who will contribute to a thriving university community.
 y Transformative societal impact:  Expand the university’s impact on local and regional communities, the state 
of Iowa, and the world by leveraging its areas of distinction, the resources entrusted to it, and the collective 
talent of its people.  

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 9Excellence in teaching and learning: Foster high-quality teaching and dynamic educational experiences 
that empower all students to achieve their aspirations. 
 
The University of Iowa is committed to providing every undergraduate, graduate, and professional student with transformative 
educational experiences through connections with world-class scholars, unique opportunities for experiential learning , and 
holistic support at every stage. Iowa prepares future innovators and leaders, researchers and artists, and change-makers and 
pacesetters who will contribute to the betterment of communities throughout the state and beyond. 
Key to transformative student experiences is promoting student learning both in and out of the classroom; establishing 
meaningful relationships with peers, faculty, staff, alumni, community partners, and industry leaders; and providing 
welcoming, inclusive, and supportive spaces to every member of the Hawkeye family. All of these areas lay the foundation for 
Iowa’s continued commitment to improving student retention and graduation rates. 
A. Enhance support, incentives, and structures that facilitate teaching excellence and student learning.
1. Provide departmental and program level resources and ensure accountability for the implementation of sustained 
course and curriculum innovation. 
2. Promote an institutional culture that elevates the value of teaching excellence by expanding comprehensive support 
and professional development for teaching.
3. Identify opportunities to expand instructor support for course and curriculum development and teaching approaches 
that strive to better address the needs of all students.
4. Evaluate current educational spaces, such as classrooms and online offerings, and recommend improvements that 
support student learning.
5. Expand cohesive, evidence-based academic support for students and strengthen collaboration across support units.
B. Expand structured guidance and support for student curricular and co-curricular learning and career planning and 
networking.
1. Promote a comprehensive academic advising network and campuswide philosophy using approaches based on 
national best practices.
2. Evaluate stages of the student experience to identify and address institutional barriers to student progress to 
degree.
3. Provide integrated resources that help facilitate student planning of curricular, co-curricular, and career pathways. 
4. Promote pipelines for undergraduate to graduate and professional programs that align with student and/or 
workforce needs.
C. Elevate as an area of institutional distinction the diverse mentoring networks that connect students with faculty, staff, 
peer leaders, and alumni.
1. Provide support and incentives for those who serve as mentors and more formally recognize the value of mentoring.
2. More clearly define existing areas of strength and opportunities to increase student access to and participation in 
diverse mentor relationships with faculty, staff, peers, and alumni.
3. Strengthen mentoring networks by making available a central hub of tools and resources to support best practices 
that can be tailored to various mentoring opportunities.
D. Improve equitable access to distinctive, high-impact  educational opportunities  for students.
1. Identify and address challenges in student access to and participation in high-impact activities.
2. Create an infrastructure to promote shared high-impact practices such as research, scholarship, and creative 
activities; internships; study abroad and other international experiences; civic and community engagement; and 
mentored student employment.  
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 10Innovative research and creative discovery: Advance the success of UI scholars, researchers, and  
artists and build on the university’s distinctive strengths in areas of current and emerging research  
and creative discovery.
 
The University of Iowa is dedicated to the discovery, dissemination, and preservation of knowledge; has a tradition 
of interdisciplinary and cross-collegiate scholarship; and seeks to translate its successes through innovation and 
entrepreneurship. Cutting-edge research informs high-impact educational experiences, and through public engagement the 
university puts knowledge into practice to improve the lives of individuals and their communities. Advancing research and 
creative discovery at the university is key to the success of strategies throughout this plan. 
A. Build on the university’s reputation for excellence in research and creativity by bolstering existing areas of distinction 
and identifying new and emerging strategic opportunities.
1. Using a data-driven approach, identify and prioritize existing areas of distinction and emerging areas of excellence.
2. Develop plans to support strategic areas of growth in research and creative activity.
3. Use existing resources and internal funding opportunities to promote cutting-edge research and interdisciplinary 
teams. 
B. Support a culture of creativity, innovation, and interdisciplinary collaboration to grow leading-edge research, 
scholarship, and creative activities.
1. Create and support collaborative groups of thought leaders and innovators to advance interdisciplinary collaboration 
in strategic areas, including sciences; well-being and mental health; arts and humanities; and diversity, equity, and 
inclusion.
2. Leverage campus resources and external connections to develop and promote entrepreneurship opportunities and 
foster economic and social impact.
3. Identify opportunities to enhance support for translational  and community-engaged research.
C. Enhance critical infrastructure  to enable and support excellence in research, creativity, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship.
1. Continue development and implementation of short- and long-term plans to manage research space, including 
deferred maintenance and new construction.
2. Ensure support services for research and creative work meet institutional needs and contribute to the success of 
researchers and scholars.
3. Explore traditional and non-traditional avenues to increase external funding.
4. Accelerate entrepreneurship and support broader economic development through innovative engagement and 
partnerships with industry and community organizations. 
D. Support efforts to increase involvement of students at all levels in research and creative work.
1. Assess available training opportunities for students who are engaged in or are seeking to engage in research, and 
integrate or expand opportunities as needed. 
2. Seek increased external funding for faculty and staff to expand opportunities for student participation in research 
and creative work.
3. Expand and improve awareness of institutional pathways for student participation in research and creative work and 
for presenting, publishing, and otherwise disseminating student work outs ide the university. 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 11
Welcoming and inclusive environment: Facilitate proactive campus cultural change to  
cultivate a more respectful, inclusive environment that embeds diversity and equity into the  
Iowa experience.
Diversity (broadly defined ), equity, and inclusion are essential to every aspect of the University of Iowa’s mission and are 
embedded in each of the strategic priority areas, with attention to the myriad ways they are foundational to excellence in 
teaching, research, and service. The university is dedicated to transparency, communication, collaboration, and accountability 
in its diversity, equity, and inclusion growth and seeks to provide an inclusive environment in which individuals have a sense 
of belonging and have the ability to achieve their potential.
A. Evaluate and improve programs and policies to enhance diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout the university 
community.
1. Launch a comprehensive evaluation of university policies and procedures to identify and address gaps related to 
diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. 
2. Expand institutional programming and promote individual engagement in activities focused on diversity, equity, and 
inclusion.
3. Evaluate and improve student transition and orientation programming.
4. Identify and address gaps in mentoring, training, and recognition programs related to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
5. Centralize reporting of sexual assault, misconduct, bias, discrimination, and harassment to include multiple checks 
and balances to the reporting and investigative processes. 
B. Promote expansion and campuswide awareness of physical spaces and resources that provide dedicated support for 
diverse students, faculty, and staff. 
1. Assess accessibility of physical spaces on campus and prioritize needed improvements.
2. Expand and increase awareness of physical spaces and resources that provide engagement with diverse 
communities.
3. Expand and increase awareness of opportunities for the campus community to learn across perspectives and 
experiences. 
C. Use best practices and data-driven, evidence-based policies and procedures to retain talented and diverse students, 
faculty, and staff. 
1. Identify factors contributing to students, faculty, and staff leaving the institution, and develop plans to reduce 
attrition. 
2. Coordinate and optimize the use of existing retention programs informed by best practices.
D. Develop a process for communicating and elevating the institution’s values related to diversity, equity, and inclusion 
through unified campuswide strategy, narratives, content, and promotion. 
1. Assess the feasibility of a hub-and-spoke communications model to better coordinate diversity, equity, and inclusion 
messaging, narratives, and content, and share best practices across colleges and central administrative units.
2. Embrace, communicate, and promote university core values in messaging while broadly defining diversity and 
inclusion.
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 12Holistic well-being and success: Provide a comprehensive foundation of support for individuals 
throughout all stages of their relationship with the university, beginning by attracting and retaining 
talented students, faculty, and staff who will contribute to a thriving university community.
Its people are the University of Iowa’s most important resource. Success in every aspect of the university’s mission is 
founded on attracting and retaining talented and engaged individuals who will contribute to a vibrant environment for 
learning, innovation, and discovery. As the university pursues its vision to be the destination of first choice for those seeking 
a place to grow, learn, contribute, and thrive, the university is committed to nurturing a culture of care and respect within 
which all feel supported as they work toward their personal and collective goals. The university will chart clear pathways for 
advancement, celebrate excellence and achievement, and ensure access to holistic well-being and mental health supports. 
The UI will build on the great advances it has made in existing programs and services to become widely recognized as a 
campus that cares for every member of its community. 
A. Embed well-being  and mental health into all aspects of campus culture to better support students, faculty, and staff.
1. Evaluate the effectiveness of and recommend improvements to existing well-being programs, and identify service 
gaps based on population data.
2. Identify well-being and mental health needs of diverse groups and evaluate effectiveness of existing programs in 
meeting those needs. 
3. Create a cohesive framework of existing holistic well-being services and resources for students, faculty, and staff to 
ensure a more inclusive and equitable well-being and mental health infrastructure. 
4. Increase access to and awareness of mental health and well-being resources.
5. Expand curricular and co-curricular learning for all students that provides foundational well-being knowledge and 
skills.
B. Promote institutional excellence and success by attracting and recruiting a talented body of students, faculty, and staff 
to create an inclusive and engaged community rich in diversity of experiences, perspectives, and expertise.
1. Recruit talented undergraduate, graduate, and professional students.
2. Recruit exceptional faculty, with a focus on areas of strategic importance.
3. Recruit talented staff, with attention to areas of critical need to the institution. 
C. Retain talented faculty and staff through professional development, recognition, and a culture of connection and 
employee value. 
1. Identify and address gaps in faculty and staff satisfaction within the career lifecycle.
2. Ensure access to training and professional development and clarify pathways to career advancement.
3. Identify internal and external opportunities for cultivating emerging leaders and provide training and mentoring to 
expand leadership skills. 
4. Identify opportunities to enhance supervisor development.
5. Review reward and incentive structures and make recommendations to increase recognition of excellence in key 
areas that support strategic priorities. 
6. Assess the potential impact of innovative workplace strategies, such as flexible work practices on staff recruitment 
and retention.
D. Explore improvements in infrastructure —including people, processes, policies, and technology—to support faculty, 
staff, and campus leadership in using institutional data to plan, implement, and assess efforts to advance individual 
and institutional success. 
1. Cultivate a campus culture of data-informed assessment and continuous improvement.
2. Identify the needs of information users that are not being addressed by existing information resources and 
infrastructure, including potential enhancements to data collection and reporting tools.
3. Examine the feasibility of creating a central hub for institutional data and assessment coordination to support data 
literacy and data-driven decision making. 
 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 13Transformative societal impact: Expand the university’s impact on local and regional communities, the 
state of Iowa, and the world by leveraging its areas of distinction, the resources entrusted to it, and the 
collective talent of its people. 
The University of Iowa is proud to hold the elective Engagement Classification from the Carnegie Foundation, which 
recognizes its commitment to have a positive impact on Iowa and other local, regional, and global communities through 
engagement and partnership. The university serves the people of the state of Iowa and beyond as a resource for education, 
health, culture, sustainable communities, and economic vitality. The university’s capacity to expand and strengthen these 
contributions will depend on its success in each of the strategic priority areas. 
A. Increase access to higher education in the state of Iowa. 
1. Minimize financial barriers to enrollment and progress to degree for qualified students.
2. Cultivate partnerships with K-12 institutions and community colleges to enhance college-readiness and academic 
success. 
3. Pursue innovative degree and non-degree programs, including online programs, to meet the lifelong educational and 
career development needs of Iowans and beyond.
B. Provide excellent patient care and services for Iowans and the world.
1. Meet the growing community demand for services by increasing patient access.
2. Grow clinical programs of excellence to differentiate UI Health Care.
3. Improve UI Health Care’s ranking as a destination academic health system that optimizes the current standard of 
care and advances patient care.
4. Build high functioning interprofessional health care teams to ensure the highest quality of care for patients.
C. Expand opportunities and support for students, faculty, and staff to engage in mutually beneficial partnerships with 
communities across Iowa and around the world, including those with underserved populations. 
1. Bolster community partnerships in areas of institutional excellence—including health, arts and cultural programming, 
sustainability, entrepreneurship and business development, policy leadership, well-being and mental health, and 
others—to positively impact communities in Iowa and advance the university’s mission around the world.
2. Strengthen and expand opportunities for students to support communities through community-engaged 
coursework, service, and research.
3. Support and recognize faculty and staff who teach community-engaged courses, conduct community-engaged 
research, and advise and mentor students in civic engagement.
4. Enhance coordination and collaboration among students, faculty, and staff to provide clearer pathways for 
partnerships on campus and with communities across Iowa and beyond. 
D. Continue to exercise responsible and effective stewardship of resources, prioritize sustainability, and address the 
needs of stakeholders in the state of Iowa and beyond. 
1. Further integrate sustainability into the university’s teaching, research, and public engagement missions as well as 
its operations.
2. Support a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship, and collaboration that contributes to economic development in 
Iowa communities.
3. Identify growth opportunities for existing and/or new programs that address student, societal, and/or workforce 
needs.
4. Identify and address opportunities to strengthen operational efficiencies and effectiveness and to maximize 
resource utilization. 
E. Enhance and coordinate communication to better understand the emerging needs and priorities of stakeholders and 
also to more effectively represent the university’s impact as an extraordinary resource for leading-edge research, 
education, health care, culture, and economic vitality. 
1. Identify and promote campuswide best practices in communication with stakeholders to ascertain community 
needs.
2. Enhance communication of UI research that impacts the state and nation.
3. Evaluate strategies to coordinate campuswide content production, messaging, and advertising.
4. Evaluate content distribution platforms to determine the most effective forms of external and internal 
communication.
5. Provide resources for colleges and central administrative units to produce content and distribute simultaneously 
within the institution to maximize content reach and frequency.
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 14METRICS AND INDICATORS OF PROGRESS
In preparing to implement the strategic plan over the next five years (as described below), the university has 
committed to prioritize ongoing, focused measurement and assessment of activities in support of the plan. Each 
critical tactic added to the implementation plan will include metrics and indicators for assessing its effectiveness, 
guiding its ongoing implementation, and recognizing its success. These indicators will be monitored, updated, 
supplemented, and reported on throughout the life of the plan.
Over time, success in implementing the critical tactics is expected to contribute substantively to improvements in 
the targeted progress indicators below and in many other key indicators of institutional progress, such as:
 y AAU Membership Indicators, including 
 ○Competitively funded federal research support
 ○Faculty awards, fellowships, and memberships
 ○Citations
 ○Research/scholarship PhDs granted annually
 y Faculty/staff retention and turnover rates
 y Research expenditures
 y Demographic data and diversity measures
 y Data from surveys including the Campus Climate Survey, Working at Iowa, Student Experience in the 
Research University, Personal Health Assessment, and others
 y Health care patient visits
The university regularly reports on these indicators of progress in various contexts, including governance reports to 
the Board of Regents, State of Iowa.

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 15Targeted Progress Indicators Current State12027 Target Goals
Fall-to-fall retention for first-year 
undergraduate students87%Increase to 
90%
Four-year undergraduate completion rates 56%Increase to 
58%
Six-year undergraduate completion rates 73%Increase to 
75%
Attainment gap² in fall-to-fall retention of 
underrepresented minority ³ undergraduate 
students4%Decrease to 
2%
Attainment gap² in fall-to-fall retention of 
first-generation 4 students10%Decrease to 
6–8%
Attainment gap² in four-year graduation 
rate of underrepresented minority ³ 
undergraduate students11%Decrease to 
7–9%
Attainment gap² in four-year graduation rate 
of first-generation 4 undergraduate students 13%Decrease to 
9–11%
Attainment gap² in six-year graduation 
rate of underrepresented minority ³ 
undergraduate students11%Decrease to 
6–8%
Attainment gap² in six-year graduation rate 
of first-generation 4 undergraduate students 12%Decrease to 
7–9% 
Include employment outcomes of graduates 
in academic program reviews Not currently 
requiredIncluded in 
all reviews
Need- and merit-based philanthropic 
scholarship support for undergraduate, 
graduate, and professional students$27.4MIncrease to 
$32.4M
Success rate for online courses 95%Maintain 
at 95% or 
greater
In alignment with the strategic plan of the Board of Regents, 
the university has set specific five-year targets for the following 
high-level indicators, and will report on progress toward meeting 
these targets annually:

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 1613-year average unless otherwise noted
2The disparity between groups of students on a given academic performance goal.
3In the narrow context of monitoring gaps in retention and graduation rates between underrepresented students and other students, this plan defines 
underrepresented minority (URM) to include members of the following federally-defined race/ethnicity categories that have traditionally been 
underrepresented in higher education: Hispanic/Latinx, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races (where at least one race is included in the preceding list). URM counts include only U.S. citizens and permanent residents 
(international students are counted separately).
4A student is considered to be of first-generation status if neither parent or guardian holds a four-year degree. This is self-reported information collected on the 
undergraduate admissions application.
5Average annual encounters from FY2019-2021, excludes COVID-19 clinic and telehealth activity during the pandemic.
6Baseline period is 2021 Vizient Quality and Accountability Study
7Based on NSF HERD data; target to be re-calculated annually based on rolling 3-year average of UI Peer Group
8A measure of building stewardship and condition, calculated using a dollar value of facility needs and replacement value.
9Baseline as of FY2021
EXCELLENCE IN 
TEACHING AND 
LEARNING
WELCOMING 
AND INCLUSIVE 
ENVIRONMENT
HOLISTIC WELL-BEING 
AND SUCCESS
TRANSFORMATIVE 
SOCIETAL IMPACT
INNOVATIVE RESEARCH 
AND CREATIVE 
DISCOVERY
Targeted Progress Indicators Current State12027 Target Goals
UI Health Care patient capacity—unique 
annual patient encounters across all UI Health Care settings2.18 million 5Increase by 
10%
UI Health Care Vizient Quality and 
Accountability Study ranking of 
comprehensive academic medical centersRanked 71 of 
1016Rank in top 
50
Annual increase in research expenditures 7 3% 5%
Philanthropic support for faculty prizes/
awards, fellowships, professorships, chairs, and deanships$18.3MIncrease to 
$21.6M
Percentage of students reporting participation in a high-impact, experiential learning opportunity in responses to the Senior Exit Survey85-88%Increase to 
90%
Percentage of campus participation in campus climate surveys30%Increase to 
60%
Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions N/A 47%
Undergraduate students completing a sustainability-focused courseBaseline to be 
established in 
year 175%
Net Asset Value index score 8 of GEF facilities 79%9Maintain 
at 79% or 
greater
Percentage of new buildings and renovations designed and constructed to standards that meet or exceed LEED design certification 
thresholdsN/A 100%

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 17APPENDIX
STRATEGIC PLAN DEVELOPMENT 
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
The University of Iowa’s strategic planning process originally began in spring 2020 and was placed on hiatus due 
to the global COVID-19 pandemic that critically affected university operations. The development process was 
relaunched in January 2021, substantially redesigned to ensure it fully addressed pandemic impacts. A Strategy 
Team was appointed to lead the effort. The Strategy Team in turn appointed four Strategic Planning Development 
Teams and a Data and Assessment Team.
STRATEGY TEAM
The Strategy Team, co-led by the executive vice president and provost and vice president for research, was 
charged by the university president to develop a new five-year strategic plan to be implemented on July 1, 2022. 
Strategy Team members were selected based on their areas of expertise and/or oversight of key units. Faculty, 
staff, and collegiate dean representatives were nominated by the Faculty Senate, Staff Council, and Council of 
Deans, respectively. Ex officio members of the team included the presidents of student, faculty, and staff shared 
governance bodies, as well as liaisons from the Data and Assessment Team and the writing and administrative 
support group. 
DEVELOPMENT TEAMS
Development Teams were created in four core areas: Student success; faculty and staff success; research and 
discovery; and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Each team was co-chaired by campus experts in the topic area 
and comprised broad representation of students, faculty, and staff from across campus and from a variety of 
disciplines, as well as a representative from the UI Center for Advancement. Membership was decided with input 
from shared governance leaders. The Strategy Team co-chairs charged the Development Teams to identify themes 
and priorities from collegiate and central administrative unit strategic plans, hold campuswide listening sessions 
and key informant meetings, and identify areas of university distinction, and to use that input to generate preliminary 
plans for their core areas. The Development Teams met during spring, summer, and fall 2021, and submitted their 
preliminary plans in December 2021.
DATA AND ASSESSMENT TEAM
A Data and Assessment Team was created to support the Strategy Team and Development Teams throughout the 
development process. Team members served as liaisons on each team, providing input about existing and potential 
data sources and helping to define metrics and assessment strategies. 
WRITING AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
A writing liaison was embedded to support each team. Administrative support also was identified to facilitate the 
teams’ efforts. This was especially important in the coordination of internal and external engagement sessions, and 
in the work to discern themes from the collegiate and central administrative unit strategic plans and from the input 
gathered during feedback sessions. 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 18INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
The Strategy and Development Teams engaged in campuswide iterative feedback processes, as well as meetings 
with external stakeholders, to collect input and promote transparency during plan development. 
In January and February 2022, the strategic plan was drafted based on the plans submitted by the four 
development teams, the collegiate and central administrative unit strategic plans, and input from the internal and 
external feedback sessions. The plan was refined throughout spring 2022 based on input from focus groups and 
individual consultations with campus experts in the strategic priority areas, as well as feedback from alumni, and 
other key external stakeholders. In addition to the Strategy Team, drafts were shared with the Council of Deans and 
President’s Cabinet. 
The UI Strategic Plan for 2022 –2027 was submitted to the Board of Regents, for approval in May 2022.Listening Sessions Key Informant 
MeetingsFocus Groups External 
Stakeholder 
FeedbackOnline Feedback
July - October 2021 October 2021Fall 2021 and  
Spring 2022Spring 2022 Spring 2022
Gather campus-
wide feedback on 
priorities, areas 
of distinction, and 
opportunities for 
growthGain insight 
on needs of 
development team 
focus areasGather input on 
drafted strategic 
plan goalsCollect feedback on 
institutional mission 
and vision, areas 
of distinction, and 
drafted key priority 
goals Gather campus-wide 
feedback on drafted 
plan content
More than 20 
sessions held with 
student, faculty, and 
staff groupsMore than 30 
meetings held with 
campus content 
area expertsMore than 10 
discussions held 
with content 
experts and campus 
stakeholdersMultiple meetings 
held with key 
stakeholders, 
spanning alumni and 
community leaders  Asynchronous open-
ended feedback 
from the campus 
community
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 19STRATEGIC PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND EVALUATION  
IMPLEMENTATION
An Implementation Team comprising campus leaders in each of the strategic priority areas will be formed in 
summer 2022. It will be charged with leading the process to carry out the strategic plan over the next five years. 
Building on input from the Development Teams and in consultation with key internal and external stakeholders, the 
Implementation Team will further develop and prioritize a series of critical tactics the university will use to advance 
the plan’s strategies. The team will identify metrics to measure progress toward implementing the tactics and to 
assess outcomes.
The strategic plan will be supported by the General Education Fund budget, the UI Center for Advancement 
Comprehensive Campaign, internal and external resources, and funds from the university’s public-private 
partnership  (P3) with ENGIE North America and Meridiam. The Implementation Team will identify the resources 
needed to support critical tactics.
The tactics, metrics, and other information will be collected into an implementation plan that will be shared with the 
university community via the university’s strategic planning web site . 
EVALUATION
While the strategic plan’s goals, objectives, and strategies will remain constant, the implementation plan will be 
reviewed periodically over the life of the plan and will be revised to adjust to new challenges and opportunities, to 
make more effective use of available resources, and/or in response to assessment of success.
The Implementation Team will meet quarterly to review and discuss progress and make any needed adjustments. 
The team will discuss and review the impact of the implementation plan on progress toward strategic plan goals, 
and to promote transparency in the process will share such progress at least annually with the campus community 
and stakeholders.

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 20DEFINITIONS
Diversity, equity, and inclusion: The UI defines  diversity, equity, and inclusion as follows:
Diversity  refers to all aspects of human difference, social identities, and social group differences , including 
but not limited to race, ethnicity, creed, color, sex, gender, gender identity, sexual identity, socio-economic 
status, language, culture, national origin, religion/spirituality, age, (dis)ability, military/veteran status, political 
perspective, and associational preferences.
Equity  refers to fair and just practices and policies  that ensure all campus community members can thrive. 
Equity is different than equality in that equality implies treating everyone as if their experiences are exactly the 
same. Being equitable means acknowledging and addressing structural inequalities, historic and current, that 
advantage some and disadvantage others. Equal treatment results in equity only if everyone starts with equal 
access to opportunities. 
Inclusion  refers to a campus community where all members are and feel respected, have a sense of belonging, 
and can participate and achieve their potential . While diversity is essential, it is not sufficient. An institution 
can be both diverse and non-inclusive at the same time, thus a sustained practice of creating inclusive 
environments is necessary for success.
Experiential learning:  The practice of learning through applied experience—curricular or co-curricular—and guided 
reflection on those experiences (Kolb, 1984).
High impact practices: High impact practices (HIP) refer to a variety of educationally purposeful and structured 
activities that span curricular and co-curricular contexts and incorporate, but are not limited to, the following 
aspects: mentored relationships with faculty, staff, and/or peers; timely feedback and collaborative problem-
solving; and reflection on learning experiences (Kuh, 2008). HIPs include a range of activities such as internships, 
undergraduate research, study abroad, and community-based service learning. These activities have been shown 
to positively impact all students, with additional positive gains on underrepresented students (Finley and McNair, 
2013).
Infrastructure: In the context of this plan, the term infrastructure is used broadly and may refer to people, 
processes, policies, facilities, and/or technology.
Scholarship, research, and creativity: Scholarship on the UI campus takes many forms, including traditional 
research in the lab, artistic creation, applied forms of discovery through experiential learning, and more. Creativity 
in this context encompasses all forms of looking at the world in new ways to discover and create new knowledge.
Translational research: Research that focuses on translating scientific and scholarly discovery into applications 
and practices that directly benefit people and society.
Well-being: Well-being at the UI is a process focused on life-long learning that promotes and sustains optimal 
health, personal connectedness, meaningful experiences, and a purposeful life. 
 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 21TEAMS PARTICIPATING IN STRATEGIC PLAN DEVELOPMENT
Strategy Team Members (March 2021–June 2022)
Co-Chairs  
Kevin Kregel , executive vice president and provost, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost  
Marty Scholtz , vice president for research, Office of the Vice 
President for Research
Team Members  
Ted Abel,  chair and department executive officer, Department of 
Neuroscience and Pharmacology; director, Iowa Neuroscience 
Institute; and Roy J. Carver Chair in Neuroscience, Carver College 
of Medicine  
Steve Fleagle, associate vice president and chief information 
officer, Information Technology Services  
Sarah Hansen, vice president for student life, Division of Student 
Life 
Brooks Jackson , vice president for medical affairs and dean, Carver 
College of Medicine  
Terry Johnson, chief financial officer and treasurer, Office of 
Finance and Operations  
Amy Kristof-Brown, professor, Department of Management and 
Entrepreneurship, and dean, Tippie College of Business  
Lynette Marshall, president and chief executive officer, UI Center 
for Advancement  
Danielle Martinez, director of student retention, Academic Support 
and Retention, University College  
Dan Matheson, associate professor of instruction, and director 
of sport and recreation management, Department of Health and 
Human Physiology, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Laura McLeran, associate vice president for administrative affairs 
and senior advisor to the president, Office of the President  
Amanda Haertling Thein, professor, Department of Literacy, 
Culture, and Language Education, College of Education; associate 
provost for graduate and professional education, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost; and dean, Graduate College  
Liz Tovar, executive officer for diversity, equity and inclusion and 
associate vice president, Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  
Tanya Uden-Holman , clinical professor, Department of Health 
Management and Policy, College of Public Health; associate 
provost for undergraduate education, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost; and dean, University College  
Kevin Washburn, professor and N. William Hines Dean,  
College of LawShared Governance Team Members (ex-officio)  
Moala Bannavti,  PhD candidate, Department of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, and Graduate 
and Professional Student Government president  
Teresa Marshall,  professor, Department of Preventive and 
Community Dentistry, College of Dentistry, and Faculty Senate 
president  
Regan Smock,  undergraduate student, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, and Undergraduate Student Government president  
Kevin Zihlman , assistant athletics director of compliance, 
Department of Intercollegiate Athletics, and Staff Council president 
Support Team Members (ex-officio)  
Kathy Andrews,  senior executive assistant, Office of the Executive 
Vice President and Provost  
Mirra Anson,  coordinator of strategic plan and student success 
initiatives, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and 
senior director, Academic Support and Retention, University College  
Wayne Jacobson , director, Office of Assessment, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost; and Data and Assessment 
Team lead  
Charlie Taylor, director of communications, Division of Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion  
Mike Weaver,  program manager and executive assistant to the vice 
president, Office of the Vice President for Research  
Kristina Yows,  associate director of administration and planning, 
Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost; and Data and 
Assessment Team and Strategy Team writing support  

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 22Team Leads  
Tanya Uden-Holman  (lead), clinical professor, Department of 
Health Management and Policy, College of Public Health; associate 
provost for undergraduate education, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost; and dean, University College  
Angie Reams (co-lead), associate vice president and dean of 
students, Division of Student Life  
Amanda Haertling Thein (co-lead), professor, Department of 
Literacy, Culture, and Language Education, College of Education; 
associate provost for graduate and professional education, Office 
of the Executive Vice President and Provost; and dean, Graduate 
College
Team Members  
James Ankrum,  associate professor, Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, College of Engineering  
Heidi Arbisi-Kelm , assistant dean of academic affairs, Graduate 
College  
Pauline Beazer James , senior international student and scholar 
advisor, International Programs  
Broderick Binns,  executive director of the Office of Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion, Department of Intercollegiate Athletics  
Kathy Mellen , associate professor of instruction, Department of 
Health and Human Physiology, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Noel Mills, MPA candidate, School of Planning and Public Affairs, 
Graduate College, and Undergraduate Student Government former 
president  
John Murry, Jr.,  associate professor, Department of Marketing, 
Tippie College of Business  
Cody Pritchard,  project director, TRIO Student Support Services, Center for Inclusive Academic Excellence, Division of Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion  
Scot Reisinger,  assistant dean of student services, College of 
Public Health  
Regan Smock,  undergraduate student, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, and Undergraduate Student Government president  
Shaun Vecera,  professor, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, College Liberal Arts and Sciences, and director, Honors 
Program, University College  
Susan Vos,  clinical professor, Department of Pharmacy Practice 
and Science, and associate dean of student affairs, College of 
Pharmacy 
Data and Assessment Team Liaisons  
Matt Anson,  associate director for institutional research and 
assessment, Office of Assessment, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost  
Teri Schnelle,  director of projects and partnerships, Division of 
Student Life  
Duane Staskal, data, analytics, and insights workgroup leader, 
Information Technology Services
Support Team  
Mirra Anson,  coordinator of strategic plan and student success 
initiatives, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and 
senior director, Academic Support and Retention, University College  
Jayme Johnson,  office manager, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and ProvostDEVELOPMENT TEAM MEMBERS
Student Success Development Team
Research and Discovery Development Team
Team Leads  
Edith Parker (lead), professor, Department of Community and 
Behavioral Health, and dean, College of Public Health  
Joshua Weiner  (co-lead), professor, Department of Biology, and 
associate dean for research, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
Team Members  
Alaa Albashayreh, PhD candidate, College of Nursing  
Ethan Anderson,  associate professor, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences and Experimental Therapeutics, College 
of Pharmacy  
Shalini Birari,  undergraduate student, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences  
Erin Brothers, research administrator, Office of Research, Carver 
College of Medicine  
Colleen Campbell, clinical associate professor, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Carver College of Medicine  
Liz Constantine,  director, Grants and Research Services Center, 
College of Education  
David Frisvold,  associate professor, Department of Economics, 
Tippie College of Business  
Nicole Green,  postdoctoral research scholar, Tina Tootle Lab, 
Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Carver College of 
Medicine, and UI Postdoctoral Association president  
Steven Hitlin,  professor, Department of Sociology and Criminology, 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Keri Hornbuckle,  professor, Department of Civil and Environmental 
Engineering, College of Engineering  
Michaeljulius Idani, MFA candidate, creative writing, College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences  Allison Jaynes,  assistant professor, Department of Physics and 
Astronomy, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Anya Prince , associate professor, College of Law  
Ann Ricketts, associate vice president for research, Office of the 
Vice President for Research  
Tina Tootle, associate professor and director, Biomedical Sciences: 
Cell and Developmental Biology Program, Department of Anatomy 
and Cell Biology, Carver College of Medicine  
Xian  Jin Xie, Centennial Professor, Department of Preventive and 
Community Dentistry; associate dean for research; and director, 
Biostatistics and Computational Biology, College of Dentistry and 
Dental Clinics  
Data and Assessment Team Liaisons  
Nate Cook, manager of accounting and financial analysis, Division 
of Sponsored Programs, Office of the Vice President for Research  
Boyd Knosp,  associate dean for information technology, Carver 
College of Medicine 
Support Team  
Kathy Andrews, senior executive assistant, Office of the Executive 
Vice President and Provost  
Mirra Anson,  coordinator of strategic plan and student success 
initiatives, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and 
senior director, Academic Support and Retention, University College  
Kimberly Nye, administrative assistant, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost  
Steve Pradarelli,  director of strategic communications, Office of 
the Vice President for Research 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 23Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Development Team 
Team Leads  
Liz Tovar  (lead), executive officer for diversity, equity and inclusion 
and associate vice president, Division of Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion  
Armando Duarte  (co-lead), professor; director, Bachelor of Fine 
Arts program; and director, Dance Production, Department of 
Dance, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
Team Members  
Moala Bannavti , PhD candidate, Department of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, and Graduate 
and Professional Student Government president  
Venise Berry,  professor and department executive officer, 
Department of African American Studies, and professor, School of 
Journalism and Mass Communication, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences  
Will Coghill-Behrends, clinical associate professor, Department of 
Teaching and Learning, College of Education  
John Culshaw, Jack B. King University Librarian, University 
Libraries  
Nicole Del Castillo,  director of the Office of Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion, Carver College of Medicine  
Paul Gilbert, associate professor, Department of Community and 
Behavioral Health, College of Public Health  
Nicole Grosland, distinguished professor, Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, and associate dean for academic 
programs, College of Engineering  
Weimin Han, professor and department executive officer, 
Department of Mathematics, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Angie Lamb, assistant director, Academic Support and Retention, 
University College  Elizabeth Lara, manager of diversity, equity, and inclusion, College 
of Public Health  
Noel Mills, MPA candidate, School of Planning and Public Affairs, 
Graduate College, and Undergraduate Student Government former 
president  
Bill Nelson , associate dean and executive director, Iowa Memorial 
Union, Division of Student Life  
Sara Sanders, professor of School of Social Work, and dean, 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Charlie Taylor , director of communications, Division of Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion 
Data and Assessment Team Liaisons  
Matt Anson , associate director for institutional research and 
assessment, Office of Assessment, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost  
Sriram Chari, executive director, Administrative Information 
Systems, Information Technology Services  
Deb Tiemens,  associate director of institutional data, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost
Support Team  
Kathy Andrews,  senior executive assistant, Office of the Executive 
Vice President and Provost  
Mirra Anson,  coordinator of strategic plan and student success 
initiatives, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and 
senior director, Academic Support and Retention, University College  
Jayme Johnson,  office manager, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost
Faculty and Staff Success Development Team
Team Leads  
Lois Geist  (lead), professor, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Carver College of Medicine, and associate provost for faculty, 
Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost  
Cheryl Reardon  (co-lead), chief human resource officer and 
associate vice president, University Human Resources 
Team Members  
Erin Barnes , clinical assistant professor, Department of Counselor 
Education, College of Education  
Sue Bodine, professor, Department of Internal Medicine, Carver 
College of Medicine  
Nicole Brogden,  associate professor, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences and Experimental Therapeutics, College 
of Pharmacy  
Brandi Carr, senior human resources director, UI Health Care  
Lawrence Cook,  lecturer, Master of Finance Professional Director, 
Department of Finance, Tippie College of Business  
Sean Hesler,  interim director, Organizational Effectiveness, 
University Human Resources  
M. Lindell Joseph, clinical professor and director of graduate 
health systems/administration, College of Nursing  
Ruthina Malone,  departmental administrator, Department of 
Psychological and Brain Sciences, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences  
Jamie Matthews, director of information technology, Information 
Technology Services and College of Law  Heather Mineart, department administrator, Department of Physics 
and Astronomy, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and UI Staff 
Council past president  
David Ryfe,  professor and director, School of Journalism and Mass 
Communication, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  
Sarah Tallman,  associate director of operations, Office of the Vice 
President for Research 
Data and Assessment Team Liaisons  
Deb Tiemens, associate director of institutional data, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost  
Kristina Yows, associate director of administration and planning, 
Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost
Support Team  
Mirra Anson,  coordinator of strategic plan and student success 
initiatives, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and 
senior director, Academic Support and Retention, University College  
Kim Carter, executive administrative assistant, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA  |  STRATEGIC PLAN     page 24Data and Assessment Team
Team Lead  
Wayne Jacobson , director, Office of Assessment, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost
Team Members  
Matt Anson,  associate director for institutional research and 
assessment, Office of Assessment, Office of the Executive Vice 
President and Provost  
Sriram Chari, executive director, Administrative Information 
Systems, Information Technology Services  
Nate Cook,  manager of accounting and financial analysis, Division 
of Sponsored Programs, Office of the Vice President for Research  
Gokul Murugesan,  senior data scientist, UI Center for Advancement  
Boyd Knosp,  associate dean for information technology, Carver 
College of Medicine  
 Mike Noel,  senior director, Administrative Information Systems, 
Information Technology Services  
Dan O’Connell, assistant vice president, Constituent Insights and 
Analytics, UI Center for Advancement  
Teri Schnelle,  director of projects and partnerships, Division of 
Student Life  
Duane Staskal,  data, analytics, and insights workgroup leader, 
Information Technology Services  
Don Szeszycki,  associate vice president and director of 
administration and planning, Office of the Executive Vice President 
and Provost  
Deb Tiemens,  associate director of institutional data, Office of the 
Executive Vice President and Provost  
Kristina Yows,  associate director of administration and planning, 
Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost
 STRATEGICPLAN.UIOWA.EDU
The University of Iowa Strategic Plan 2022–2027 was approved by 
the Board of Regents, State of Iowa on June 2, 2022.
The University of Iowa prohibits discrimination in employment, educational programs, and activities on the basis of 
race, creed, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, pregnancy (including childbirth and related medical conditions), 
disability, genetic information, status as a U.S. veteran, service in the U.S. military, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
or associational preferences. The university also affirms its commitment to providing equal opportunities and equal 
access to university facilities. For additional information on nondiscrimination policies, contact the Director, Office of 
Institutional Equity, University of Iowa, 202 Jessup Hall, Iowa City, IA 52242-1316, 319-335-0705, oie-ui@uiowa.edu.
9/6/2022
