Enterprise25
AUSTRALIA’S
UNIVERSITY OF ENTERPRISEOur Strategic Plan 2018 -2025
OUR STRATEGIC INTENT
Acknowledgment of Country
UniSA respects the Kaurna, Boandik and Barngarla 
peoples’ spiritual relationship with their country.  
We also acknowledge the diversity of Aboriginal 
peoples, past and present.
Find out more about the University’s commitment 
to reconciliation at unisa.edu.au/RAP
Artist: 
RikuraniWho we are
We are Australia’s University of Enterprise on the global stage, agile 
and astute, known for relevance, equity and excellence.
What we do 
We educate and prepare global learners from all backgrounds, instilling professional skills and knowledge and the capacity and drive for life-long learning.
We undertake research that is inspired by global challenges and 
opportunities, delivers economic and social benefits and which informs our teaching.How we do it
We operate through a partnered, end user informed culture of teaching and research with a commitment to outstanding service, continuous improvement and sustainability.
What we value
Integrity and accountability
Diversity and social justice Engagement and collaborationAgility and innovationScholarship and excellence

OUR STRATEGIC INTENT
IMAGE TO COME
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 01
VICE CHANCELLOR ’S OVERVIEW
The University of South Australia is 
a globally connected and engaged university educating professionals for the new economy and helping  
to solve the challenges of industry and society.
 Our teaching is industry-informed 
and our research is inventive and 
adventurous. We create knowledge that is central to global economic and social prosperity. Our graduates are the new professionals, confident and capable global citizens engaged with the world and ready to create and respond to change. 
 UniSA’s success is built on:
•  a foundation of teams of excellent 
and inspiring staff,
•  dedication to the highest standards in education and to the frontiers of creativity and curiosity in research
•  appreciation of what students want and how we support them in their goals
•  partnerships and meaningful end user engagement.
Enterprise 25, our statement of strategic direction continues the evolution of our University which since its inception has demonstrated a commitment to change and innovation. We embrace the challenges that face our sector but remain true to our own mission as  
an open and accessible university  
with the determination to chart our own course. Enterprise25 places People, Programs and Precincts at the heart of the university’s operations out to 2025
 We operate in an ever-evolving 
environment and  we need to equip 
our students for future work. The digital world is lifting and changing student expectations – which requires adaptation to stay ahead.
Technological change is transforming 
industry - innovative research and innovative content in programs are needed now, more than ever before. The challenges for business and society are more interconnected - they require interdisciplinary responses. The international trend is toward supporting research with impact - UniSA needs to maximise its advantage. UniSA's competitors are increasingly international not local. The world should look to UniSA for innovation – that innovation is embedded in our new strategy, Enterprise25.
 Enterprise25 builds on and continues the 
momentum and achievements of Crossing the 
Horizon including:
•  Teaching and learning innovation, through the 
Digital Learning Strategy
•  Research and end-user engagement through the Research and Innovation Strategic Plan
•  Student engagement through the Student Engagement Framework
•  Aboriginal education, research and employment through the Reconciliation Action Plan
•  Engagement with our regions, through the Regional Engagement Framework.
The principles of interdisciplinarity and the co-location of cognate disciplines, industry and research inform the next phase of our capital development. The university will consolidate its footprint with fewer campuses towards 
page 02 University of South Australia
VICE CHANCELLOR ’S OVERVIEW
the delivery of vibrant communities of scale. 
Central to the success of Enterprise25 is a refresh and reemphasis on the value and quality of our educational offerings – our academic programs. We are affording them centrality in our consideration, and ensuring they are the best they can be – competitive and attractive nationally and internationally.
 Through our industry-informed curriculum and 
flexibility of delivery we will further expand our  
international student population; delivering the best in globally relevant education on campus, online and offshore.
 Our research themes bring together thought 
leaders across disciplines to address significant 
challenges facing society. By taking an industry sector approach, and building partners into large-scale research activities and precincts, we prioritise the translation of knowledge into impact.
AWARD-WINNING  
JEFFREY SMART BUILDING Academic programs will draw on 
expertise from across the institution for their delivery - the best input contributing to the best offerings through curriculum communities
 Through Enterprise25 we will 
continue to shape our future as 
Australia’s University of EnterpriseAt the University of South Australia 
we believe that all the days of the 
University should be great days.  
We embrace the sense of excitement 
and possibility that permeates our 
organisational culture and through 
a focus on people, programs and 
precincts we will continue to be an 
institution of which our community 
can be justifiably proud.
Prof. David Lloyd  
Vice Chancellor and President  
University of South Australia
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 03
Our 2025 
Ambitions
1
UniSA will be ranked 
among the very  
highest nationally for 
student satisfaction 
and graduate 
employment rates.
2
Our top 20 accredited programs will all rank among  
the very best in Australia  and feature on the  
QS Top 100  subject listings internationally. 
3
15%  of our operational income will come from 
research activities with 60%  of that activity directly 
linked to industry partners.  We will grow the scale  
and focus of our research by building capacity in areas 
that we have demonstrated excellence and shown 
potential for growth. 
4
Programs  will draw  
on expertise from across 
the institution for  
their delivery - the best 
input contributing 
to the best offerings  
through academic 
curriculum communities.
page 04 University of South Australia
5
By 2025 we will be 
placed within the Top 8 
institutions nationally 
for research excellence, 
and known as the 
sector’s most  
industry-engaged 
university.
6
UniSA will be a high performing, culturally 
enterprising  organisation; our core attributes 
embedded in all that we do, be at the forefront of 
our leadership and reflected in the diversity of our 
people  and how they work together.
7
Our teaching, research and practice will be 
consolidated on precincts, closely  integrated and 
aligned with industry.
Our composition 
in 2025
By 2025, UniSA will have grown 
by 20% to 40 000 enrolled 
students.  Within this cohort, 
25% of students will engage 
with the University online - 
as domestic, international, 
transnational, postgraduate 
and undergraduate students.
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 05
PROGRAMS 
Our academic programs are the 
passage we offer our students to their professional careers. Our programs will be the core of what we do, how we organise ourselves, and judge our performance. Our challenge is to remain a leading educator for the new professions and to prepare our students for their careers as the future leaders, citizens, innovators and adventurers of tomorrow.
 Through our curriculum innovation 
process, we will reshape and review 
our programs to ensure they are leading-edge, end user endorsed programs that are all ranked among the best in the world. We will draw on the best academic and curriculum expertise, and the best new knowledge from our research, from across the University to ensure high quality education. Building on the core capabilities, all undergraduate programs will integrate interdisciplinary opportunities, delivering skilled and flexible graduates to an ever-changing workforce.
 Our professional and industry 
partners will collaborate with us 
to develop the highest quality and most relevant curriculum, and with the provision of internships and work integrated learning, so that our students continue to graduate with above average career outcomes.
 Central to the delivery of life-
long education, our postgraduate coursework and executive  
education will be designed around micro-credentialing, flexible and sustained credit accrual, certification of attainment and systematic recognition of prior learning and experience. UniSA College will excel in delivering enabling foundation studies, supporting pathways to university  for students from any walk of life.
 With an increased emphasis  
on student retention and success, 
we will establish a new transition-to-university team, focused on first year success and retention. This group will deploy learning analytics to monitor student progression and utilise proven mentoring and intervention strategies to enable student progression in the critical first year of independent learning in a higher education setting.
 The UniSA Foundation will provide 
scholarship opportunities and financial 
assistance for at least 1 in 5 of our student body and will successfully raise general scholarship support on an ongoing basis. To round out their connection to society and end users, all of our students will be afforded the opportunity to engage with an expanded UniSA+. 
 We will review and refine our 
interdisciplinary mix and the academic 
structures and support processes that contribute to outstanding program development.
page 06 University of South Australia
PROGRAMS 
AWARD-WINNING  
JEFFREY SMART BUILDING
  PROGRAMS
PEOPLE
PRECINCTS
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 07
PEOPLE
We commit to being the very best 
we can be. Great people are core to our success. Through Enterprise25, our staff core attributes will influence every aspect of our employee experience, from attracting great talent through investing in our professional development and enabling high performance.
 The University will continue to 
invest in its people – developing our 
skills and cultivating our attributes to shape and support an enterprising and solution focussed attitude that characterises our constructive and open culture.
 We commit to the provision of 
a culturally and physically safe 
environment for our entire community. We will pursue accreditation as an Athena Swan Gold site and as a White Ribbon accredited organisation demonstrating the values we stand for. We will be a University that represents the community and, faithful to our founding principles, strive to be positioned as Australia’s Aboriginal University of Choice and an institution that is open to all those who aspire to advancement through education.
 We will simplify our administrative 
structure and ensure that service 
delivery is defined by its end-to-end commitment to our students and partners as well as a focus on service excellence. We will redefine program oversight, management structures and capabilities - bolstering academic leadership and professional management to reflect and reinforce our program focus. 
 UniSA will further enhance its 
reputation as an institution that is 
easy to work with, and one that is committed to the wellbeing and growth of all our people, individually and collectively.
page 08 University of South Australia
PEOPLE
AWARD-WINNING  
JEFFREY SMART BUILDING
PROGRAMS
PEOPLE
PRECINCTS
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 09
PRECINCTS
Our places underpin our community. 
Precincts are the embodiment of our next capital development plan. Precincts will see the logical geographic organisation of our program areas in complementary proximity to one another and to embedded end users and industry. 
 We will encourage partners, 
businesses and industry groups to 
 
locate on our campuses and we will 
cluster research and like academic communities in physical and virtual precincts that bring together learning, research and enterprise. We will make connections to form solutions and shape our research and knowledge for the benefit of end users.By 2025 we will have further consolidated our campus footprint and updated our physical learning and research infrastructure. Co-locating cognate activities of excellence, we will work to maximise efficiency and to reduce the number of metropolitan campuses. In so doing we will move to replace tired, ageing or inefficient infrastructure. We will move to an open plan model in all new facilities and all future renovations. We will maximise general teaching spaces and actively repurpose lecture theatres as the evolution of digital education continues apace.
 Our development principles include seamlessly 
accommodating Industry in Residence. Each campus will have sustainable development goals and renewable energy targets. In any development we will include explicit consideration of ground floor activation and revenue generation. As part of our continued journey towards being the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander University of Choice, we will deliver Unaipon Spaces across each campus.  
 As the state’s University we will continue to 
impact in the regions of South Australia and reach 
internationally through dedicated partnerships.
 Through growth of UniSA Online we will 
broaden our education footprint beyond 
traditional borders.
page 10 University of South Australia
PRECINCTS
AWARD-WINNING  
JEFFREY SMART BUILDING
PROGRAMS
PEOPLE
PRECINCTS
 Australia's University of Enterprise page 11
University of South Australia  
GPO Box 2471, Adelaide  
South Australia 5001  
Australia
Telephone: +61 8 8302 6611  
Facsimile: +61 8 8302 2466  
The information provided in this publication is for 
general information only, and the University of 
South Australia makes no representation about the 
content, suitability, accuracy or completeness of 
this information for any purpose. It is provided “as is” 
without express or implied warranty. 
Information correct at time of printing
August 2018
CRICOS Provider Number: 00121BPROGRAMS  PEOPLE  PRECINCTS
