 
Strategic Plan  
2022 -2027  
 
 
Changing  Lives to Create  a Better World  

1 | Page  
 “It is time to own who we are, where we are, and what we must do to create a 
better future  for our students, ourselves, and our region .”  
 
Dear ULM Family, Friends, and Community Members:  
A special thanks to the hundreds of individuals who participated in the process to chart a path 
forward for ULM.  The final work in this plan represents  creativity, vision, and a  passion for 
improving lives.  And, when this work is implemented, it will be a testament to the  dedication , 
commitment, and belief in  ULM’s purpose.  
We are fortunate to be a part of the University of Louisiana System that has outlined three bold strategic goals including producing 150,000 new graduates by 2025, expanding public -private 
partnerships to enhance economic prosperity, and to maximize admini strative efficiencies and 
investments in instruction and academic support.  Our strategic plan is in alignment and 
supportive of the Systems’ plan while  specific to serving the needs of our region and beyond.   
Along with our b edrock core values  and guidin g principles, this plan includes a strong focus on 
our U niversity resources that are critical to our future growth and success.  These U niversity 
resources provide a foundational base upon which we build the pil lars of our work :  Student 
Success, Faculty and Staff Distinction and Wellbeing, Intellectual Activities, Community 
Engagement, and Athletic Excellence.  Embedded throughout the plan is a commitment and appreciation for diversity, equality, inclusion, excellence, and success.   
By building upon our framework of shared values  and guiding principles, ULM will firmly take 
our role as an anchor institution in this region.  We will become a sought -after place of 
employment, and build broad, diverse community connections that help propel the region into prosperity.  Our students will be active participants in the learning process as we prepare them to 
understand the world broadly and take their place as engaged, enlightened, and productive 
citizens .  And finally, w e will p rove to the world that where individual s begin life does not 
predetermine their path  forward, nor where they will end up.   
With a shared and intensel y felt sense of mission, I hope that you will join us in pursuing our 
vision of  changing  lives and creating a better world.    
Sincerely,  
 
Ron Berry, President  
University of Louisiana Monroe  
 
 
 

2 | Page  
 Our Vision, Mission, Values , and Guiding Principles  
VISION STATEMENT  
ULM will change lives by bringing true equality, inclusiveness , and opportunity for all 
individuals  in our region and beyond.   
 
MISSION STATEMENT    
The University of Louisiana Monroe prepares individuals  from northeast Louisiana and beyond 
to compete, succeed, and contribute in an ever -changing global society through a transformative 
educati on while positively impacting society through research and service.   
 Values  
• Academic Freedom  and Responsibility  
We believe that freedom and responsibility in teaching and research is critical to 
ULM’s mission  and service.  
• Diversity  
We value and incorporate  differences because we are enriched by a broad range of 
ideas and perspectives.  
• Excellence  
We uphold high standards  for our students, faculty, staff , and partner s and help in their 
achievement of these standards.  
• Integrity  
We uphold ourselves  to honesty, truthfulness, and rightness of action.  
• Scholarship  
We pursue the expansion of knowledge through teaching, research, creative works , 
and service.  
• Service  
We will be courteous, respectful, and positive in our interactions with others  while  
anticipating and fulfilling their needs.  
 Guiding Principles  
• Commitment  
We commit to the success of our students and U niversity . 
• Accountability  
We accept  responsibility for our actions, decisions, and results . 
• Innovation 
We develop and implement creative  ideas and solutions  to solve global needs . 
• Efficiency  
We will be  responsible stewards of available resources . 
• Collaboration  
We seek partnerships that benefit our U niversity  and region.  
• Achievement  
We will achieve and celebrate positive results  from our a ctions .  
 
3 | Page  
 STRATEGIC FOUNDATION:   UNIVERSITY RESOURCES  
 
Essential Goal : Maximize U se of Financial, Physical , Technolog ical, and Brand  Resources 
to realize our mission of transformation and ensure the University’s long -term 
sustainability.   
 ULM will position itself to thrive in an uncertain environment by ensuring effective use of financial, physical , and technological resources.  We will enhance learning and our campus 
community for our students, faculty, and staff by providing well -maintained, moder n, and 
welcoming facilities, along with an accessible technology infrastructure that provides needed and 
useful information at all user levels.  All of our Strategic Goals depend on the achievement of this essential  goal.   
 Initiative  1     Ensure all sources of financial resources are maximized and leveraged to achieve    
our mission of transformation.  
 
a. Examine our business model to identify new ways to grow revenue and reduce expenses .  
b. Align U niversity affiliate organizations’ priorities and processes to benefit the 
University . 
c. Develop processes to commercialize services offered by faculty, staff, and students across campus . 
d. Incentivize innovation among faculty and staff for the development of intellectual property . 
e. Maximize opportunities to capture federal and state dollars  by identifying resources 
for external support . 
f. Design and implement a comprehensive funding campaign, including governmental, non- profit, corporate, donor, and self -generated funds of an 
additional $250,000,000 by 2031.    
 Initiative  2     Enhance learning and campus community for our faculty, staff , and students by  
providing well -maintained, modern, and welcoming facilities.  
 
a. Update the University Campus Master Plan by May 2023.  
b. Develop a plan for improvement of office, classroom, clinic, and lab spaces . 
c. Maintain and update the physical campus to provide a vibrant, safe, functional, and 
welcoming environment by partnering with affiliate and private organizations to 
develop areas on, around, and near campus.  ( e.g. campus hotel, w aterfront 
development, restaurant, sanctuary ) 
d. Partner with local law enforcement and city officials to maintain and improve 
safety and appearance of the campus environment . 
e. Pursue opportunitie s to improve the physical campus infrastructure to meet the 
needs of the changing living and educational environment of students, faculty, and staff. 
f. Assess and implement opportunities for reducing the carbon footprint (energy consumption, energy efficienc y) of the U niversity . 
4 | Page  
  
Initiative  3    Enhance learning and campus community for our faculty, staff , and students by  
providing a modern and accessible technolog ical infrastructure that provides needed 
and useful information at all user levels.  
 
a. Ensure current technology hardware infrastructure, programs, software, and 
processes are available to students, faculty, and staff throughout the physical 
campus . 
b. Ensure the technological infrastructure (including hardware, software, and data) is 
kept safe and pr otected, and is recoverable in the event of disaster caused by human 
error, malfunction, or natural causes . 
c. Strive for an effective balance between user need and available resources .  
d. Apply technological solutions to simplify processes and/or reduce reliance on paper 
processing to reduce inefficiencies and environmental impact . 
e. Implement a campus -wide recycling program . 
 
 Initiative  4     Maximize the ULM Brand to ensure a consistent and beneficial message.   
 
a. Develop impactful and innovative methods for maximizing the ULM brand . 
b. Support and reinforce the U niversity’s mission and vision by developing consistent 
branding and marketing . 
c. Create initiatives that foster, build, sustain, and continuously increase pride in 
ULM with defined benchmarks, measure s of effectiveness, and timely 
enhancements .  
d. Strengthen relationships with future, current, and past students to create a lifelong 
mindset to recruit, engage, and provide for active advocacy of  ULM . 
e. Use new and emerging communication technologies and marketing trends to 
effectively brand ULM, while leveraging existing communication technologies . 
f. Develop a system that allows the communities that ULM serves more access to the ULM brand . 
  
STRATEGIC PILLAR :  STUDENT SUCCESS  
 Goal 1:  Champion Student Success Through Innovative and Transformative Programs  
and Experiences  
 ULM will attract, prepare, and graduate students well-equipped to succeed in the 21st century. 
ULM  will provide affordable and meaningful undergraduate and graduate student experience s 
from recruitment to degree completion where all students have relevant opportunities to grow 
and learn in an inclusive environment.  We will be the solution for closing the educational -
attainment gap  in Louisi ana and do our part to create the most educat ed citizenry in Louisiana’s 
history.  
 
 
5 | Page  
 Initiative  1.1     Improve accessibility and affordability of college for students across the region. 
 
a. Create an d implement a  marketing  plan for increasing  awareness of the value and 
transformational impact of higher education  specifically targeted to students from 
underserved and marginalized populations . 
b. Work closely with and expand opportunities of TRIO programs to improv e 
accessibility to higher education . 
c. Expand opportunities for students from underrepresented and marginalized groups 
to attend U niversity events . 
d. Maintain affordable total cost of attendance, including tuition rates, fees, and 
course costs . 
e. Increase opportunities for OER and AER textbooks (Open/Affor dable 
Educational Resources ) and/or new textbook program . 
f. Increase need -based and merit -based scholarships  and other financial 
opportunities  that will remove barriers for degree completion . 
 
Initiative  1.2 Recruit , admit, and enroll a diverse student body that is prepared for college study 
and representative of the racial/ethnic, gender, and social class of the region . 
 
a. Assess current enrollment trends by program, level, and student demographics . 
b. Develop and execute a strategic marketing plan that exemplifi es the Warhawk 
Way , an action -based  cultural concept that meets individuals where they are and 
inspires them to dream, accomplish, and ultimately become the best versions of 
themselves.    
c. Develop and execute a strategic enrollment management plan that supports an 
enrollment of 8,000 undergraduate and 2,000 graduate students by 2026, 
exclusive of dual enrollment students . 
d. Develop and evaluate a strategic enrollment management plan for online 
programs and learners with specific enrollment targets and defi ned infrastructure 
support needs.  
 
Initiative  1.3    Increase retention of continuing students to support timely progression to  
graduation.  
 
a. Develop and execute a comprehensive strategic retention plan to reach a 1st to 2nd 
year first -time, full- time stud ent retention rate of 80% , a continuing student 
retention rate to 90% by fall 2026, and a 6 -year graduation rate of 65% by 2031. 
b. Enhance  student preparation, support, and advocacy for academic and non-
academic needs by analyzing existing supports, structures, and initiatives to 
bolster  their effectiveness and integration from first year to career . 
c. Create a culture that promotes students’ s ense of belonging through engagement, 
acceptance, and connection to others . 
d. Create and use  advisory boards for colleges or programs , where appropriate , to 
promote internships, support program development, or revise curricula to focus on 
current and emerging needs, opportunities, and challenges . 
6 | Page  
 e. Analyze  and integrate existing communication channels that are clear, efficient, 
and effective at reaching students and encouraging dialogue . 
f. Advance and enhance academic advising through the University Advising 
Committee, while equipping and recognizing  the advising process . 
Initiative  1.4   Improve programs or initiatives to retain  and graduate students from underserved  
and/or marginalized populations. 
 
a. Develop academic support s ervices designed to address the economic and social 
issues faced by student s from underserved, marginalized populations . 
b. Recruit and maintain a diverse faculty and staff to provide “window and mirror 
experiences” for all ULM students . 
c. Examine curricula and  develop process to increase diverse and inclusive content . 
d. Increase the number of course offerings, in- services, seminars, and social 
activities to develop the knowledge, appreciation, and understanding of cultures represented at ULM and beyond.  
e. Provide diversity, equity, and inclusion training and open conversations  at 
professional development events such as University Week . 
f. Increase opportunities to review and revise policies to address “sense of belonging” on campus  by offering more  events and activiti es to create that 
belonging . 
 
 Initiative  1.5 Provide academic and co -curricular  services and programs to  help students 
develop personally and professionally.  
 
a. Provide experiences that help students discover and better understand career 
paths.  
b. Foster students’ opportunities for emotional growth and support through discreet and peer -led platforms.  
c. Promote a culture of health and wellness that allows students to thrive . 
d. Provide opportunities  for students to gain leadership experience through 
organizations and professional workshops . 
e. Provide opportunities for students to learn networking skills  and participate in 
career mentoring  and community engagement through service learning  activities . 
          
7 | Page  
 STRATEGIC P ILLAR :   FACULTY AND STAFF DISTINCTION AND WELL -BEING  
 
Goal 2: Recruit , Develop , and Retain a diverse and qualified faculty and staff capable of 
achieving our mission  of transformation .   
 
ULM will become recognized as a best place of employment by improving compensation, 
benefits, professional development opportunities, and our inclusive culture . Our faculty and staff 
will work in an educational environment where every individual is  valued, respected, nurtured, 
developed, and feels a sense of belonging.  
 
 Initiative  2.1 Improve recruitment of well-qualified, diverse candidates and improve long -term 
retention of faculty and staff.   
 
a. Recruit new faculty and staff to fill open positions, with a focus on timely recruitment . 
b. Develop a strategic human resource pl an for the recruitment and retention of 
faculty and staff  from  underrepresented groups.  
c. Expand orientation and professional development opportunities for faculty and staff who are new to the University or new to a position.  
d. Develop a U niversity -wide , non- supervisory mentoring program for all faculty 
and staff . 
e. Create a system  to enhance timely communication between administration, 
Faculty and Staff Senates, and faculty/staff . 
f. Establish  a human resources compensation and benefits committee to develop a  
formal compensation and benefit policy and implementation plan with annual reviews .   
g. Assess current faculty and staff workloads and develop a plan for equity and/or reduction of workloads, where needed.  
 
Initiative  2.2 Enhance faculty and staff well -being  by investing in support services to improve 
effectiveness.  
 
a. Create a Center that focuses on  Teaching, Research , and Service Excellence to 
provide professional development opportunities for faculty and staff . 
b. Increase availability of  training opportunities through investment in travel funds 
and external and internal professional development opportunities . 
c. Develop a U niversity  and community -wide wellness program .  
d. Develop a U niversity -wide plan incorporating flexible work methods and 
schedules . 
e. Employ innovative financial and non- financial  faculty and staff appreciation 
reward and recognition practices . 
f. Establish  a faculty and staff club . 
 
  
8 | Page  
 STRATEGIC PILLAR:    INTELLECTUAL ACTIVITY 
 
Goal 3:  Maintain and support the level of intellectual activity necessary  by our scholars  to 
support innovation, preparation of  students for successful careers  and citizenship, and the 
creation and application of new knowled ge. 
 
ULM wi ll continue to push the boundaries of innovation in  its teachin g, research , and service 
activities.  Appropriate resources will be provided to support activities of our ULM community 
in the application, creation, and dissemination of new knowledge .  Our programs will remain 
vibrant and relevant to the needs of busines s, industry, and society , and our students will be 
prepared to live, work, and thrive in our global society .   
 
Initiative  3.1 Continue to innovate, refine, and deliver strong academic programs  for student s’ 
intellectual development.  
 
a. Deliver academic programs that focus on improving students’ critical thinking, 
problem -solving, communication, information/digital literacy, soft skills, and 
cultural competence abilities to prepare them for the contemporary workforce.  
b. Continue to review each academic prog ram every year to ensure relevancy, 
capacity, and appropriate support levels . 
c. Strengthen and/or develop institutional policies and structures that support and enhance interdisciplinary academic innovation in undergraduate, graduate, and professional studies . 
d. Promote and increase engaging pedagogies, technologies, and high- impact 
practices across the curriculum . 
e. Evaluate and adjust the general education curriculum to foster greater support and innovation in degree programs and prepare students for post -graduate pathways . 
f. Explore alternate course delivery methods to address the needs of a variety of student populations . 
 Initiative  3.2 Create and maintain a sufficient research infrastructure that supports the research and creative scholarly works of faculty, staff , and students. 
 
a. Adequately staff and support the Office of Sponsored Programs and Research. 
b. Develop on- campus funding sources for grant matching funds . 
c. Evaluate existing indirect cost policies to ensure supportive and fair distribution 
d. Evaluate the current workload policy to ensure appropriate and equitable release time is provided for research and creative work efforts . 
e. Expand the current student research program , Emerging Scholars , to all student 
levels . 
f. Evaluate and update research resources (library, laboratories, and electronic  
resources) . 
g. Create mechanism s to encourage interdisciplinary research that will help 
strengthen brand of ULM . 
  
9 | Page  
 STRATEGIC P ILLAR :   COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT   
 
Goal 4:  Expand community partnerships that improve the quality of life in our region , and 
expand economic opportunities for students, faculty, staff , and the community.  
ULM will continue to enrich the region by providing lifelong learning and engagement opportunities to our citizens .  We will be the  convener for problem -solving and needs analysis 
for our community  by le veraging our expertise  and providing a host of services through our 
faculty and staff , centers , and clinics.  
  Initiative  4.1 Maintain and expand mutually beneficial relationships and partnerships that maximize our impact.  
 
a. Develop and/or  strengthen partnerships with local elected officials . 
b. Strengthen relationships with education and business leaders in communities within 
our service footprint . 
c. Work closely with school systems in northeast Louisiana with an emphasis on dual enrollment offerings . 
d. Maximize opportunities to offer and host visual and performing arts events  for the 
community . 
e. Maximize impact of university engagement with community through social services provided by pro grams and students (e.g., internships, student teaching, clinical 
rotations). 
 Initiative  4.2 Provide services essential to the region related to health care, business development, 
and education. 
 
a. Design community service initiatives that are coordinated a cross campus and 
inclusive of  northeast Louisiana . 
b. Strengthen and develop additional public health services  with an emphasis on 
serving rural areas in northeast Louisiana . 
c. Explore new partnerships with business and industry to bolster local economy and 
create employment and internship opportunities for students . 
d. Expand continuing education, learning , and training opportunities throughout our 
region . 
e. Expand and improve services provided by U niversity research centers, labs, and 
clinics to address critical community needs .  
 
 
       
10 | Page  
 STRATEGIC PILLAR:   ATHLETIC EXCELLENCE 
 
Goal 5:  Develop a culture of excellence and success among our athletic programs.  
 ULM will d evelop a premier student -athlete experience in college athletics by providing 
opportunities for our student -athletes to succeed in every area.   We will assess our current 
situation, develop plans to take advantage of opportunities, and create an environment that is supportive of our student -athletes’ success.  We will provide for an exceptional exper ience for 
our fans to create and maintain pride in all our athletic programs.   
 Initiative  5.1   Provide academic and personal development to ensure student -athletes are  
successful in sports and in life . 
 
a. Provide  resources that address m ental health and other challenges faced by 
student -athletes . 
b. Develop programs that prepare student -athletes for life after athletics, including 
increased use of Career Center services . 
c. Provide services and resources for student -athletes  (e.g. tutors and study space)  
that help them navigate the rigors of balancing classwork with athletics . 
 Initiative  5.2    Develop a realistic financial model to support a successful athletic program.  
 
a. Develop a plan for increasing the overall athletic budget, including investing in a full-time fundraising position(s) and maximizing the relationship with Learfield  
with a goal of raising $3.0 million annually by 2025.  
b. Promote  a culture of philanthropy and volunteerism among ULM partners  that 
focuses on improving the Athletic Department and our  student -athletes ’ success . 
c. Position the Athletic Department to be staffed appropriately and comparabl y to 
other Sun Belt institutions . 
d. Pursue all avenues of revenue, including student fees, student enrollment  
improvements , and public -private partn erships . 
 Initiative  5.3    Enhance athletic a wareness and support among faculty, staff , students and the  
  community.  
 
a. Develop a plan for facility maintenance and upgrades . 
b. Create an environment that keeps fans and partners  aware of and engaged in ULM 
athletic events .  
c. Create a family -friendly and welcoming environment at athletic events . 
d. Create a comprehensive marketing and communication plan using  all media 
outlets . 
e. Engage faculty  and staff by including them in athletic events . 
f. Strengthen relationships  with student organizations by creating an environment 
that creates a fun atmosphere at athletic events . 
 
