STRATEGIC  
PLAN
Term 2016-18
December 2016
STRATEGIC  
PLAN
Term 2016-18
December 2016
CONTENT
STATUS QUO 06 2.
MISSION STATEMENT 1 0 3.
VISION 1 24.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 1 4 5.
5.1 Excellence in applied research and post-graduate training  ........... 15
5.2 Internationalization by means of joint programs and projects in  
 Europe and America, and alliances with international prestigious  
 institutes  .................................................................................. 16
5.3 Prestige and public presence  ..................................................... 16
5.4 Sufficient and stable funding for research  ................................... 17
5.5 Independence of thinking and capability of self-management  .......17
STRATEGIC PROJECTS 1 8 6.
6.1 Relative to the management of the IIT  ......................................... 19
6.2 Relative to the staff of the IIT  ...................................................... 20
6.3 Relative to the technical resources  ............................................. 21
6.4 Relative to the collaboration with industry and other institutions  ...21
6.5 Relative to research results  ........................................................ 211.INTRODUCTION  04
INTRODUCTION
5This document contains an executive, 
English version of the Strategic Plan of 
the IIT. 
The objective of this Strategic Plan is 
to elaborate a set of objectives and 
actions aligned with the Strategic 
Plan of the University 2014-18 that 
allow us to move from what we are to 
what we want to be during the next 
three years. 
The Strategic Plan starts from an 
analysis of the status quo of the Ins -
titute for Research in Technology (IIT) 
in section 2. Subsequently, IIT’s mis -
sion is stated in section 3 and a vision 
of the IIT is given in section 4. This 
vision, embedded in the Institute’s 
mission, gives rise to a set of stra -
tegic objectives and projects, which 
are described in sections 5 and 6 and 
which in turn seek to fulfill the vision.
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-181. INTRODUCTION
5
STATUS QUO
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-18During the last five years, yearly revenues of the IIT have been oscillating 
around values just above the five millions Euros. It can be inferred from Figure 1  
that the yearly revenues during the last 20 years generally seem to have 
grown in a constant and progressive manner. 
  1I.e., without adjusting the currency for inflation.The analysis of the status quo of the IIT is the starting point for this Strategic 
Plan. A brief overview of figures and facts will be given in this section. 
The IIT is a research institute founded in 1984 with an on average growing 
trend in its research activity. The IIT is fully self-financed by means of external 
funds. Subsequently, trends of the most significant performance indices will 
be summarized.2. STATUS QUO  
Figure 1. Yearly revenues in current million € during the last twenty years1.-
Figure 2. Research staff of the IIT (dark brown: researchers and professors, light brown: PhD students)
7
8With respect to IIT’s research staff, during each of the last years more than 60 
professors and researchers and around 45 PhD students have been carrying 
out research activities at the IIT. Figure 2 actually shows that the staff is more or 
less constant during the last 6 years. 
Figure 3 exhibits the number of projects developed at the IIT. The number of 
projects is somewhat constant over the last years recovering now pre-crisis 
values.2. STATUS QUOFigure 3. Number of projects developed at the IIT.

9
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-18Figure 4. Papers published in JCR-indexed journals.
Finally, research activity during 
2014-15 has resulted in: nine book 
chapters, 63 papers published in 
JCR-indexed journals, 11 papers 
published in other journals, 74 
papers presented at conferences, 
17 technical reports, nine PhD thesis defenses and 21 PhD thesis in pro -
gress. Figure 4 shows the evolution of 
the yearly number of papers published 
in JCR-indexed journals. On average, 
53 papers have been published in 
JCR-indexed journals over the last 
five years with a growing tendency.

MISSION STATEMENT
11
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-183. MISSION STATEMENT
“The IIT, Institute for Research in Tech -
nology, is part of the School of Engi -
neering (ICAI) of Comillas Pontifical 
University in Madrid.
Its main aim is to promote research and 
postgraduate training in diverse tech -
nological fields through participation in 
specific research projects of interest for 
the Industry and Administrations.”Further:
“The IIT aims at contributing to society 
by transferring its research results. 
This transference of knowledge is 
based on the strictest respect of 
freedom and manifoldness of opi -
nions of its researchers and profes -
sors as rigorous and independent 
experts.”
Within this mission statement, collaboration with industry and other external 
institutions plays a key role, being at the same time means and purpose. In 
other words, members of the IIT contact and correlate with the industry and 
administrations to produce research results, transfer knowledge and educate 
researchers.
VISION
13The vision reflects the future of the IIT 
we attempt to build; it shows where 
we want to go to and what we will be 
like once there.
This vision includes the following 
complementary elements:
a. The IIT shall be an institute of 
scientific excellence dedicated to 
applied research. It is a place of 
knowledge creation, innovation 
and technological transfer. The IIT 
shall be an international reference 
in its current fields of research, 
namely electric power systems, 
energy system models, smart 
and sustainable grids, energy 
economics and regulation, rai -
lway systems, smart industry and 
cities, and bioengineering. It shall 
also be open to emerging fields 
of research.
b. The IIT shall be further an institute 
of educational excellence, transfe -
rring its research results to higher 
education. It is able to attract and 
retain talented persons, to educate 
them by contributing to high quality 
doctoral programs, including the 
participation in projects for industry 
and administrations. The IIT’s ope -
ration centers on PhD students.
c. IIT’s activities will route on its abi -
lity of self-administration through 
a close relationship with both 
industry and administration. 
d. The IIT shall be an institute able to 
self-manage, to think and act inde -
pendently, where work is done in a 
flexible and effective manner.e. Members of the IIT shall be aware  
of the impact of technology on 
society and they conceive their 
work with a strong ethical com -
mitment and social responsibility. 
This impact of technology shall 
be positive by contributing to jus -
tice and sustainability actively. 
f. The IIT will offer a creative and 
cooperative working environment 
for researchers and professors, 
where an ambience of positive 
personal relationships is fostered, 
making work better and more 
pleasant, and allowing for a per -
sonal and professional develop -
ment of all its members. 
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-184. VISION

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
15To put the vision into practice, it is 
necessary to define a set of objectives. 
These objectives are:
• Excellence in applied research 
and post-graduate training.
• Internationalization by means of 
joint programs and projects in Europe 
and America, and alliances with inter -national prestigious institutes. 
• Prestige and public presence.
• Sufficient and stable funding for 
research. 
• Independence of thinking and 
capability of self-management.
• Ethical consciousness of the impact 
of technology and social responsibility.
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-185. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
5.1 Excellence in applied research and  
post-graduate training
• Improve the quantity and the external 
recognition of the scientific production 
of IIT’s researchers and professors.
• Increase the number of emblematic 
first-class projects with maximum visi -
bility. 
• Recruit talented post-graduate stu -
dents for applied research under PhD 
programs.
• Maintain leadership position of  
consolidated research groups in power and railway systems and make an effort 
to achieve leadership position of other 
groups.
• Develop new research areas; in 
particular those that support existing 
degrees of the School of Engineering  
and those that are demanded by 
society within our field of expertise (e.g., 
research lines in bioengineering and 
industry 4.0 are currently starting to be 
developed).
15
165.2 Internationalization by means of joint programs and 
projects in Europe and America, and alliances with in -
ternational prestigious institutes
• Increase the number of joint pro -
jects and programs in collaboration 
with international prestigious institutes.
• Strengthen the presence of inter -
national PhD students, professors 
and researchers.
• Stimulate the development of 
international research careers and the interchange of PhD students 
and researchers and professors with 
international institutes.
• Strengthen the figure of inter -
national post-doc, both for attrac -
ting new talents and for stimulating 
research stays of future researchers 
at prestigious institutes. 5. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES5.3 Prestige and public presence 
• Improve the international visibility of 
the IIT (in academia, clients and other 
collaborating entities).
• Develop activities to disseminate  IIT’s research results to a wider 
audience and increase public pre -
sence, both within and outside Comi -
llas Pontifical University. 

175.4 Sufficient and stable  
funding for research
• Diversify funding resources for 
grants and contracts for PhD students.
• Implement methodologies for 
internal cost auditing to be eligible for 
private and public funding. 
• Guarantee the quality in terms 
of duration and type of projects that 
finance IIT’s activities. 
5.5 Independence of thinking and capability  
of self-management
• Be sufficiently flexible when mana -
ging IIT’s resources.  
• Ease the development of IIT 
research areas, foster and strengthen the collaboration among them, and 
facilitate their consolidation.
• Improve the reconcilability between 
academic and self-funding requirements. 
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-18

STRATEGIC PROJECTS
19Strategic projects comprise actions to 
achieve the strategic objectives.
To put in practice each strategic project, 
it is necessary to identify (i) the actions 
required, (ii) strategic objectives affected 
by the project, (iii) the coordinator and 
responsible of the project (normally a 
member of the board of directors), (iv) 
performance indexes which allow eva -luating the degree of fulfillment periodi -
cally, and (v) the necessary resources to 
be employed.
Some of the strategic projects directly 
depend on the board of directors of the 
IIT, whereas others correspond to deci -
sions of the board of directors of the 
School of Engineering or the rector’s 
office. 
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-186. STRATEGIC PROJECTS
6.1 Relative to the management of the IIT
• Improve the recognition of edu -
cational tasks and scientific produc -
tion carried out by researchers and 
professors. It is important that colla -
boration with industry is recognized 
(also with regard to promotions), that 
academic post-graduate activities are 
recognized (thesis supervision, stu -
dent supervision, etc.), and finally that 
activities related to public relation and 
institutional development carried out by senior researchers are recognized.
• Improve the communication 
between the board of directors of the 
IIT and researchers and professors.
• Increase the collaboration between 
researchers and professors of different 
research groups within the IIT.
• Improve the accounting and audit 
procedures to establish a procedure 
for the annual computation of the 
indirect costs of the IIT.
6.2 Relative to the staff of the IIT 
• Analyze whether negative asym -
metries exist between the careers of 
professor and researcher and whether 
it makes sense to work in reducing 
some of them. 
• Improve the processes of monito -
ring and evaluation of professors and 
researchers of the IIT in a systematic 
manner.
• Promote the presence of senior 
researchers in prestigious positions 
(e.g., editorial boards, fellowship of 
international associations, etc.).
• Foster research stays of resear -
chers and professors in prestigious 
institutes and maintain stable collabo -
rations with those institutes. Design 
mechanisms that stimulate these 
stays. 
• Foster the interchange of PhD 
and Master students. Create a visi -
ting program for external staff. Design 
mechanisms that stimulate these 
interchanges.
• Design a strategy to 
manage the funding of 
PhD students and the type 
of contracts of PhD stu -
dents in accordance with 
the strategic lines of the IIT, 
searching an equilibrium 
between different research 
groups.
• Review the perfor -
mance of the current figure 
of post-doc.
• Incorporate into the 
training of PhD students, 
in collaboration with the 
doctoral program, com -
munication skills and other complementary activities required to 
work in projects of applied research. 
• Design a career plan for research. 
For junior researchers, training in sear -
ching and managing projects, invol -
ving senior researchers or professors.
• Recruit new full or partial time 
researchers and professors by main -
taining the established selection and 
monitoring criteria with regard to:
  yAcademic excellence and  
scientific production
  yAbility to get funding to finance 
the professor’s or researcher’s 
research activities as well as those 
of his or her research group and 
PhD students
• Create a training program for under -
graduate and graduate students, with 
its corresponding academic recogni -
tion, to collaborate with the IIT through 
participation in research projects ( IIT 
training program ).6. STRATEGIC PROJECTS
20
6.3 Relative to the technical resources
• Improve external (national and 
international) visibility of the IIT via its 
web page as well as the university’s 
communication services. 
• Analyze alternatives for hosting 
the IIT staff in one single building and 
managing the available space, toge -
ther with the School of Engineering, 
for working spaces and laboratories.
• Analyze alternatives for re-distri -
buting space and resources within the 
two IIT buildings that foster mobility (open-space areas and use of note -
books, laptops), and create areas for 
meetings and discussions. 
• Improve the ability to self-manage 
computer and computation resources 
for the internal management of the IIT, 
the mobility of researchers and pro -
fessors, and for carrying out projects 
requiring huge computational efforts. 
Push the development of internal web 
tools for management.
6.4 Relative to the collaboration with industry  
and other institutions 
• Foster the participation in large, 
emblematic and transversal projects. 
Select those of interest and make 
contact. 
• Expand institutional relations 
beyond the projects. Select those of 
interest and make contact. 
• Create international alliances with 
prestigious institutes mainly (but not 
only) in Europe and the USA.
• Increase IIT’s public presence. Organize dissemination activities that 
could have an impact within and out -
side Comillas Pontifical University. 
Promote the IIT among undergra -
duate and graduate students. 
• Define and promote synergies with 
business activities (e.g., spin-offs). 
• Increase the participation of IIT 
research staff in external expert groups 
(e.g., Cigré, IEC, IEEE, ISGAN, etc.).
6.5 Relative to research results 
• Create the Scientific Advisory 
Board of the IIT and develop pro -
cesses for external evaluation. 
• Define incentives to actively foster 
high quality research publications. 
• Foster patenting and support the 
creation of spin-offs that allow com -
mercializing products, that benefit both IIT and the spin-off), and that do 
not conflict with IIT’s activities. Provide 
support and advice to researchers in 
order to carry out these activities.
• Stimulate the dissemination of 
research results by other means such 
as blogs, newspaper articles, inter -
views, etc.
STRATEGIC PLAN · Term 2016-18 21
 C/ Santa Cruz de Marcenado 26,  
28015 Madrid
Tel: +34 91 542 2800  
www.iit.comillas.edu

