3/4/24, 11:52 PM University of Mannheim Defines Strategy until 2028 | University of Mannheim
https://www.uni-mannheim.de/en/news/university-of-mannheim-defines-strategy-until-2028/ 1/2Univ ersit y of M annheim Details Univ ersit y of M annheim D efines S trategy un til 2028
22 Januar y 2024
The Univ ersit y of M annheim has adopt ed a
new str ategic plan. I n the str ategy pap er,
the univ ersit y sets out pr ecise goals f or the
perio d up t o 2028 in the ar eas of r esear ch, t eaching , interna tionaliza tion, equal opp ortunit y and
diversit y, sustainabilit y, transf er, and administr ation.
After one y ear of in tensiv e str ategic dialog with the schools , central institutions , committ ees, and all
stakeholder g roups of the univ ersit y, the goals w ere join tly dev eloped and unanimously appr oved b y
the S enate and the Univ ersit y Super visor y Board. The aim of the str ategy is t o consolida te and fur ther
impr ove the Univ ersit y of M annheim 's position in in ternational c ompetition.
In the futur e, the univ ersit y will str engthen theor y-based empir ical r esear ch and pr omot e the fur ther
developmen t of empir ical methods as w ell as their cr itical r eflec tion. The recently established C enter for
Advanced S tudies will fur ther impr ove the fr amew ork conditions f or collabor ative resear ch pr ojec ts. In
Credit: Staatliche S chlösser und G ärten Baden- Württemb erg
University of Mannheim Defines
Strategy until 2028
Credit: Katrin Glück ler
3/4/24, 11:52 PM University of Mannheim Defines Strategy until 2028 | University of Mannheim
https://www.uni-mannheim.de/en/news/university-of-mannheim-defines-strategy-until-2028/ 2/2teaching , the Univ ersit y of M annheim, as a tr aditional br ick and mor tar univ ersit y, focuses on pr omoting
exchange and disc ourse , while a t the same time pushing ahead dig italiza tion.
Internationaliza tion is being fur ther in tensified thr ough the ENGA GE.EU univ ersit y allianc e. The
univ ersit y str ives to ensur e tha t all studen ts ar e pr ovided with the oppor tunit y to gain in ternational
learning e xper ienc e. Regar ding equal oppor tunit y and div ersit y, the univ ersit y is pursuing the goal of
gender par ity at all car eer lev els and dev eloping a c ompr ehensiv e div ersit y str ategy. For mor e
information, please r efer to the cur rent equal oppor tunit y str ategy (in G erman).
The sustainabilit y str ategy is desig ned t o help optimiz e the univ ersit y's in ternal pr ocesses and anchor
the t opic ev en mor e firmly in r esear ch and t eaching . A tr ansf er str ategy is being dev eloped in or der t o
make a str onger impac t on societ y, politics , and the ec onom y. The Transf orM A pr ojec t is in tended t o
provide new impetus and fur ther pr omot e the tr ansf er of k nowledge and inno vation.
In the futur e, the f ocus in administr ation will be on dig ital tr ansf ormation. The WANDEL digital pr ogram
will guide this pr ocess.
More on the univ ersit y's str ategy
For the strategic plan  (in G erman), please r efer to the I ntranet .
Back
