1CONNECTED
A DECADAL STRATEGY | 2023–2032
UC acknowledges the Ngunnawal people, traditional custodians of the lands where Bruce campus is situated. We wish to 
acknowledge and respect their continuing culture and the contribution they make to the life of Canberra and the region. 
We also acknowledge all other First Nations Peoples on whose lands we gather.
Foreword from the Chancellor 4
Message from the Vice-Chancellor 5
Who we are and what we do 7
Our opportunity in this place 10
Our ambition 12
Our context 14
Our purpose and values 16
Academic excellence 19
Our objectives 22
 Objective 1—Connected to Canberra 24
 Objective 2—Connected for life 26
 Objective 3—Connected UC 28
A commitment to our future 30
How we will know if we have succeeded 33CONTENTS
4
4FOREWORD FROM 
THE CHANCELLOR
I feel honoured to have served as Chancellor of the 
University of Canberra since January 2014, and 
to have been part of an exciting evolution that has 
seen this institution come far, and grow so much. 
Faced with huge challenges in recent years, 
together with all our contemporaries across the 
Higher Education sector, I’ve witnessed our staff 
and students having to dig deep into their reserves 
of resilience and commitment. Nonetheless, the 
University of Canberra has risen to meet these 
challenges with courage and agility, and a strong 
focus on community.    
UC is all about connectedness. UC works within 
our community to deliver deep and impactful 
partnerships that grow our student base and 
enhance its education and research capabilities. 
Connectedness is woven into UC’s DNA and 
will continue to shape our future. The University of Canberra is a place that provides 
opportunity for anyone with the ability and 
commitment to succeed. It has always been a place 
of collegiality and respect. Setting a goal of being 
a global leader in equal opportunity authenticates 
UC as a student focussed university, and serves as 
a reminder to not be elite or elitist; rather a diverse, 
inclusive, culturally safe and accessible institution. 
This decadal strategy reframes UC’s trajectory 
and the key challenges in society today by putting 
a strategic focus on how UC engages with our 
community to design solutions that are inclusive 
and sustainable.  
Professor Tom Calma AO  
ChancellorI am proud of the University’s 
connection to our students and 
staff, to the community and to 
the Ngunnawal people and their 
culture. I am confident, that UC 
is in good shape, with a clear 
strategic vision for the future.
5
5MESSAGE FROM THE  
VICE-CHANCELLOR
Connected  is a decadal strategy that sets out 
the long-term ambitions and objectives for our 
university. It has at its core explicit commitment to 
our staff and students, to our place in Canberra 
and the region, and to the Ngunnawal people. 
Our academic mission is the reason we exist. 
The success of this endeavour will be measured 
by the success of our students, the quality of our 
education programs, and the impact of our research. 
This strategy provides the framework for us to 
deliver the infrastructure, both physical and digital, 
to connect to and support everyone we work with, 
to achieve our mission.
Connected  sets out our ambition to be a resilient 
and financially sustainable institution; one that 
can invest in our staff and students. We will 
grow to be a university of over 15,000 full-time 
equivalent students.
Our student profile will reflect the demands of 
our place and our community. We will have a 
more balanced and accessible mix of student 
engagements ensuring highly flexible physical 
and online educational offerings. Students will be able to study with us in a way that 
best suits their individual situations.
Connected  reasserts our commitment to widening 
participation in higher education. Our focus on 
enhanced flexibility will increase opportunities 
for those with potential. We will consistently be 
recognised as a global leader in driving equality 
of opportunity.
Our place-based research will contribute 
meaningfully to the development of Canberra, 
the region and the nation and will ensure our 
students are armed with knowledge and insights 
at the forefront of their discipline.
Connected  is a living strategy. The university will 
review and adapt  the strategy as we evolve and 
to respond as the world around us changes.
Professor Paddy Nixon  
Vice-Chancellor, University of CanberraThis university has a well-deserved 
reputation for inclusion, has a profound 
connection with the community, 
demonstrated commitment to its 
students and is known for making positive 
changes to the world around us. I am 
proud to be the Vice-Chancellor of the 
University of Canberra. I feel deeply the 
responsibility of my stewardship role to 
maintain and build on our foundations 
and am confident this strategy will 
be transformational and will allow the 
University of Canberra to continue 
to challenge and thrive.
6
6
7
We proudly embrace our role as the 
university of the nation’s capital. WHO WE  
ARE AND 
WHAT  
WE DO
7
8The University of Canberra is a research-led university 
that prides itself on educational excellence and the 
success of our students.   
The University of Canberra has built the 
foundations of a world class university over our 
first 32 years. We are recognised both nationally 
and globally for the quality of our education and 
our research.  We have a strong culture of respect 
and collegiality that underpins how we achieve 
everything we do. We have a sector-leading  
20-year masterplan for our campus that provides 
the blueprint for our home – the Bruce campus. 
We are a world class university committed to our 
place, as enshrined in the Act that established us,  
and which gives us our focus. We are the university 
for Australia’s capital region.   
We are embedded in our place, one of national 
and international decision making, delivering the 
professional skills and knowledge required to bring 
public policy and government to life. However, 
we are more than the national capital. Our local 
community remains at the heart of all we do: 
providing educational opportunity for our region, 
delivering the healthcare and education workforce, 
investing in vital research and infrastructure, 
and contributing to our region’s vibrant cultural 
and social life – all of which ensure our future 
economic prosperity. In recent years, through our previous strategic 
plan, Distinctive by Design, we have refined and 
honed our distinctiveness, built our international 
community, and positioned ourselves to take our 
place as a leader in higher education in Australia. 
While our commitment to the Capital region is 
unwavering, we now need to build an international 
identity for the University of Canberra that 
celebrates, and is built upon, the importance of our 
place.  Many of the challenges we face in this place 
have national and global resonance and it is by 
sharing our perspectives on these global challenges 
that we will enhance our international reputation.
The University of Canberra is a relatively small 
institution, one that is focussed and agile, and ready 
to become a leader in the sector. To achieve our 
ambitions, and to be able to invest in our academic 
excellence, we will need to build a resilient and 
financially sustainable university through a strategic 
focus on growth. Growth that is respectful of our 
small, agile and welcoming character. 
Our ongoing commitment to the Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander culture of Australia, and the 
Ngunnawal culture of this place, is comprehensively 
captured in our Reconciliation Action Plan, 
the Indigenisation of the curriculum and associated 
plans.  This strategy takes that commitment 
further; from the outset we have sought to weave 
Ngunnawal into our values and purpose. This is 
to ensure that in the construction of our strategy 
we respect all cultures that make up our university 
community, while also clearly celebrating and 
embedding our Ngunnawal heritage and our 
commitment to reconciliation at its centre.  
8
9
Founded on this academic excellence we set out three 
objectives that will encompass our commitment to our 
place, to our students and to our staff:  
1. CONNECTED TO CANBERRA  
Driving the socio-economic wellbeing of the 
region through partnership.
2. CONNECTED FOR LIFE  
Partnering with our students to support them 
throughout their life journeys.
3. CONNECTED UC  
Digitally connected experience removing barriers  
to access and promoting collaboration.
9
10
We will evolve the environment we operate in to benefit 
our community. OUR  
OPPORTUNITY  
IN THIS PLACE
10
11
OUR  
OPPORTUNITY  
IN THIS PLACEAs a young institution, we have pushed boundaries 
to assert our place in the university sector. We have 
built the workforce of the ACT through innovation 
in education and a commitment to the needs of the 
capital region. 
This university has achieved an outstanding 
reputation for the quality and relevance of our 
educational offerings. However, as the environment 
that we operate in continues to evolve, so must 
we. We must keep pace with and respond to 
student demand for flexible delivery options, 
practically focussed, and contemporary educational 
offerings that align with workforce and industry 
needs. We need to continue to foster our spirit of 
innovation and leadership to reimagine how we 
engage with students throughout their learning 
journey. This leadership and innovation demands 
that we renew our partners across government, 
industry and the third-sector, and collaborate 
meaningfully for the benefit of our region.The one thing that has always set the University 
of Canberra apart is our unwavering commitment 
to reducing barriers for anyone with the ability to 
access a university education. 
The fact that two in five of our undergraduate 
students are first in family proves we raise ambitions; 
our consistent employability outcomes and 
leadership in work integrated learning shows we 
provide opportunities and build careers; and our 
focus on embedding Indigenous practices and 
ways of knowing into our curriculum demonstrates 
our connection to our place and culture. This is a 
spectacular foundation to build from. 
OUTCOME  
Deep and impactful partnerships 
that enhance academic excellence 
and research impact, and encourage 
campus participation.
MEASURE  
Enhancement of UC’s partnerships 
across the three domains of education, 
research and commercial.OUTCOME  
Broadened access and opportunity 
for students, staff, alumni, and partners 
leading to increased participation 
and accessibility.
MEASURE  
Indigenous student and staff 
participation, women in leadership, and 
student access and participation.
OUR  
AMBITION
We will be the most accessible university 
in Australia and a global leader in driving 
equality of opportunity.  
12
13
We are now setting the foundations for the next 
phase of our university so that we can enhance 
the clear sense of purpose and resourcefulness for 
which we are known.
Our strategy is centred around a strong sense 
of place and a bold ambition. We confidently 
assert that we are the university for Australia’s 
capital region.  
To achieve this ambition, we will continue to 
strengthen our core academic excellence without 
which we cannot innovate and grow. This focus 
on our place, and our obligations to this place, 
will ensure that we will direct our resources in the 
most effective way.  Our ambition is to be the most accessible 
university in Australia and a global leader in 
driving equality of opportunity. 
Why do we want to be the most accessible 
university in Australia?
Enabling a diverse range of students to overcome 
their first hurdle of entering university will also 
enable them to build their careers. We will 
work and engage with our students seamlessly 
throughout their careers, wherever they come from, 
and at any point in time during their life.
Why assert ‘We are the university for Australia’s  
capital region’?
Our commitment and obligation are to Canberra 
and the region. We are focussed on strengthening 
our connections here in Canberra and the region, 
however our impact and reach remain national. 
We understand our capital region, and we are an 
outward-looking global institution.
Why aspire to be a global leader in driving 
equality of opportunity?
Being a global leader in driving equality of 
opportunity sharpens our focus on the individual, 
their success and their opportunity. It makes us 
an authentically student-focussed university, 
not elite or elitist. We are inclusive and a place 
of opportunity. With 38 per cent of our students first in family,  
and 10 per cent identifying as students with disabilities,  
we already embrace diversity in our people and our  
pathways. This contributes to our distinctiveness and   
is something we will continue to champion.
13
14
Now is our chance to become truly distinctive; to 
be confident and have an ambition that makes sure 
we assert our leadership in Australia, and beyond, 
by defining what sets us apart.OUR 
CONTEXT
14 University of Canberra Moot Court
15
The University of Canberra’s academic excellence 
is demonstrated through our achievements in world 
university rankings; and our recognised leadership 
in reducing inequalities, gender equity and quality 
of our education among our peers. Our intent is 
to leverage our academic excellence to empower 
our graduates and staff to change the world. 
In recent years we have seen dramatic change and 
demonstrated previously unimagined adaptability. 
This has driven us to rethink much of what we do, 
with hybrid methods of engagement now required 
to respond to the changing needs of our staff, 
students, and partners. These changes are here to 
stay and we have to respond. Our explicit focus on 
our place means our response must be tailored and 
specific. Three key challenges in society will shape 
our strategic focus and how we engage with our 
community to design solutions that are inclusive 
and sustainable.Social and economic inequality is growing.
If established trends in wealth inequality were to 
continue, the top 0.1 per cent alone will own more 
wealth than the global middle class by 2050. Access 
to, and successful completion of, higher education 
is a critical factor in determining social mobility and 
socio-economic wellbeing. Because of this there 
will be an increasing need for higher education to 
support its communities across the full range of 
issues confronting modern society.
The workforce is changing. 
The new world of work will demand hybrid 
jobs and hybrid skills. Skills that apply across 
disciplines, including social and emotional skills 
such as problem solving, critical thinking and 
leadership, will be increasingly valued by employers. 
Providing solutions to difficult problems will 
be an expected part of all jobs. Attracting and 
retaining quality people will also be important for 
our own workforce, as workers will be expecting 
work-life balance, meaningful work, and a sense of 
community given the increased focus on employee 
value proposition across the economy.
Our city, our region and our place is  evolving. 
The ACT government, through its Wellbeing 
Framework, is unique in its focus on health and 
wellbeing of every citizen as a driver of government 
policy. This shapes how the ACT drives economic 
growth, builds social coherence, responds to the 
demand for education, and prepares for the future 
infrastructure needs of the region. It is critically 
important that the University of Canberra plays 
a central role in this evolution through, educating, 
advising, influencing, and supporting the 
development of the region. Situated in Canberra, 
also the seat of Federal government, we have a 
unique opportunity to become the partner of 
choice for both national and territory public sectors 
and the private sector as this region develops.OUTCOME  
Reimagined educational 
offerings that meet market 
demand and drive growth in 
student numbers.
MEASURE  
Growth in student numbers in 
existing and new markets .
15
OUR PURPOSE 
AND VALUES
We strived to be really inclusive but not pick words that were superficial 
or arbitrary. It was all about finding words that really define UC, that make 
people feel represented across the university.
VALUES CHAMPION
A university is defined by its academic disciplines 
and research specialisations as well as by the values 
it holds and how those values are demonstrated. 
The University of Canberra has always been 
a place that is inclusive. A place that provides 
opportunity for anyone with the ability and 
commitment to succeed. We have always been 
a place of collegiality and respect. It is because 
of this deep sense of values in the university 
that this strategy process started by posing two 
questions to our staff. What is our purpose as a 
university and what values do we live every day 
to achieve that purpose?
Central to our values is the expression 
of our connection to, and recognition of, 
Ngunnawal country. We are committed to 
embedding Indigenous ways of knowing, being 
and doing at each  step of implementing and 
living our values; and committed to weaving 
this connection and recognition into the 
everything we do.This purpose and these values are the heart of 
this university. They describe our core identity: 
who we are and how we behave. They were 
developed by our people for all our people. 
OUTCOME  
Sense of belonging for students, staff  
and alumni that supports wellbeing, 
connection and inclusiveness .
MEASURE  
Student sense of belonging to UC 
and staff engagement at UC.
16
GALAMBANY
Together we work to empower, connect, and share knowledge 
with our people, cultures, and places.
17OUR VALUES
Everyone's invited
Celebrate differences and embrace similarities. Value unique 
contributions and promote accessibility and equity for all.
Walk together
Connect and collaborate with our community, both near and far. 
Embody the spirit of Canberra as a meeting place of ideas and 
creativity. Show what we have to offer.Dare to be curious
Find purpose in learning. Step out of your comfort zone. 
Be brave, stir curiosity and share ideas and discoveries 
that shape our future.Change the world
Don’t be afraid to have an impact. Do things 
differently. Inspire each other to be innovative.Narragunnawali
Embrace Indigenous ways of knowing, being and 
doing in our work and our culture. Get amongst the 
conversation. Listen authentically and be a driver of 
meaningful reconciliation.

18
18
19ACADEMIC 
EXCELLENCE
‘Academic excellence, as measured by  
the quality of our education programs,  
the success of our students and the  
impact of our research, is at the heart  
of everything we do.’
20Excellence in education, underpinned by world-leading 
research, is the foundation upon which our university 
is built. 
At the heart of Connected  is a commitment 
to enhance academic excellence through our 
education programs, the success of our students, 
the employability of our graduates and the impact 
of our research. Connected  is focussed on building 
the best environment for us to excel in this core 
endeavour and, in so doing, ensure we are fully 
connected to our students, our staff and our place. 
We have a vibrant and respected research 
community that has established us as a research-led 
institution. Our research success has come from 
connection to our core teaching disciplines and 
commitment to research that has strong links to 
Canberra and the region.
We will continue to invest and build our research 
capacity, ensuring we service our community 
through research that is: 
• Multi-disciplinary:  Building a community of 
researchers founded on a culture of individual 
and disciplinary research excellence and that work 
together to solve multi-faceted and complex  
real-world problems; 
• Challenge-focussed:  Undertaking research that 
responds to global challenges that are particularly 
important to the future of the ACT, across the 
spectrum of health, education, environment, 
creativity, technology and government; and
• Impact-oriented:  Demonstrating the relevance 
of our research through partnerships with industry 
and our community, to source our research 
questions and demonstrate tangible impact.
We must continue to embed our researchers,  
and their impactful research, in the learning 
environment to shape and influence the teaching 
programs of the University and ensure the relevance 
of our educational offerings. Research-informed 
teaching is important to our industry partners and 
this, along with integration of work-based learning, 
teaching the fundamentals of the discipline and 
supporting students to develop an understanding of the future of that profession mean our graduates 
will be more employable and more adaptable as they 
develop during their careers.
The University of Canberra has always been a 
leader and innovator in education. Our approach 
to education is premised on the provision of 
an engaging, caring, and supportive learning 
environment. Our education programs prepare 
our students to take leading roles in industry, the 
professions and civil society. Our ambition is to 
see our students succeed within and outside the 
university. We will ensure they have the skills to 
thrive in their careers and commit to being there to 
support them as they progress through career and 
life changes. The educational experience we offer 
will be:
• Diverse:  A vibrant and diverse student 
community that takes pride in the University of 
Canberra and has a deep sense of belonging. 
A university community that is there to assist 
everyone to succeed;
• Place-based:  It will reflect our place. It will 
build an understanding of, and respect for, the 
Ngunnawal people. Our students will learn from 
and contribute to our community; and
• Adaptable:  Confidence to respond to change. 
Careers are now defined by change and our 
students will have the foundational skills to enable 
them to adapt and flourish.
Our university’s grand challenge is to deliver 
this continued academic excellence sustainably 
in a ruthlessly competitive higher education 
sector, and in an environment that demands 
unparalleled flexibility.  
We commit to enhancing our culture of individual 
and disciplinary excellence and providing the 
necessary supports to attract, retain and develop our 
staff, both academic and professional, to achieve and 
promote that excellence. 
20
21
OUTCOME  
Financially sustainable 
enabling us to deliver on 
our mission.
MEASURE  
Financial performance including 
EBITDA* as proportion 
of revenue. OUTCOME  
High quality research 
that is externally valued and 
globally relevant.
MEASURE  
Research income that  
maintains/grows UC’s share of  
 national research income.OUTCOME  
Student success at and 
beyond UC.
MEASURE  
Student retention rate, quality 
of educational experience and  
graduate employment rate.
*Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortisation (EBITDA) 21
22
OUR  
OBJECTIVES
Connectedness is what will differentiate us.
22
23
The objectives capture our tangible impact on 
our research informed educational excellence. 
These objectives will enhance our ability to: 
• Deliver high quality research that is externally 
valued and globally relevant;
• Drive student success  at and beyond UC; and
• Reimagine our education offerings  to meet 
market demand and drive growth in  
student numbers.
The objectives will deliver a transformation in how 
we partner, how we support staff and students, and 
how we build our university community. They will:  
• Deliver deep and impactful partnerships 
that enhance academic excellence and research 
impact and  encourage campus participation;
• Broaden access and opportunity  for students, 
staff, alumni and partners to increase participation 
and accessibility; and  
• Create  a sense of belonging for students, staff 
and alumni that supports wellbeing, engagement 
and inclusiveness. 
To secure this future we need to be financially 
sustainable. Financial security provides the certainty 
that will allow us to invest in our staff, students and 
infrastructure. Investment in these objectives is 
needed for a:
• Financially sustainable UC  that enables us to 
deliver on our mission.Connected  is centered on building the environment 
our staff and students need to achieve their 
full potential. This environment will connect us; 
connect us to place, connect our students to 
the university, and connect our staff in a way 
that enhances their ability to achieve individually 
and collectively.  
The Educated Life has allowed us to envisage a 
campus which physically connects the University 
and the community. A campus that will be a 
global exemplar of ‘confluence of living, learning 
and entrepreneurship’. This strategy provides 
the complement to this physical connectedness; 
it provides for our people and community to 
connect, collaborate and create their own future.
The strategy provides three interconnected 
elements:
• Connected to Canberra  captures our 
commitment to place and links our success to the 
social, economic and cultural success of Canberra;
• Connected for Life  is our commitment to 
support our students across their life journeys; and  
• Connected UC will deliver the necessary 
digital and culture change to support our staff 
more deeply, allow our students and partners 
to work seamlessly with us, and deliver a truly 
connected university. 
Threaded through each of these elements is explicit 
commitment to sustainability. 
23
24
CONNECTED 
TO CANBERRAOBJECTIVE 1
24
25
Build sustainable communities through deep collaborations 
that are locally focussed and globally relevant.
‘Connected to Canberra’ will focus UC on building engaged communities. We will create spaces and 
opportunities to work together differently – across our university and with government, industry, and 
community partners – to enable deep collaboration, foster new knowledge, and drive collective impact for the 
benefit of the communities we serve. We will target our work and research to the key issues our community 
faces – economic security, environmental sustainability, health and wellbeing – remaining Canberra focussed, 
and globally relevant.
1. Work with local government, 
industry partners and 
our community to impact 
community wellbeing and 
sustainability.  
Sustainability and  wellbeing 
are our civic commitments. 
We will seek out priority issues 
that impact sustainability and 
wellbeing in our community 
and build programs of work, 
with our partners.2. Partner with the public 
service to become the future 
workforce provider of choice.  
We wil l estab lish ourselves as 
the lead partner in supporting 
government, connecting with 
the local community, as well 
as leveraging our educational 
offerings to serve the public 
service. We will be a partner of 
choice for career development 
in the ACT Government and 
Australian Public Service.3. Develop sectoral plans for 
long-term engagements that 
enhance our research and 
local impact.  
We will build de ep sectoral 
relationships that focus 
on people, align with our 
institutional priorities 
and enhance both our 
academic excellence and 
reach, and contribute to the 
development of our region.  

26
CONNECTED 
FOR LIFEOBJECTIVE 2
26 University of Canberra Clinical Skills Lab
27
Partner for life with our students to shape our economic, 
social and cultural futures.
‘Connected for Life’ is our commitment to students. It is about walking together with our students, partnering 
with them, and supporting them seamlessly across their life journeys. We are developing life-ready students 
who are ready to meet the future, and who are enabled to make a difference and change the world. 
Our commitment extends beyond the education we provide and the services we deliver. We will cultivate 
value-aligned partnerships to support our students throughout their life.
1. Align educational offerings 
to match the jobs and needs 
of the future.  
We will use data to inform 
the design and delivery of 
our educational offerings so 
that they are future-focussed 
and aligned with changing 
workforce needs. Our 
educational offering will 
meet domain-specific skills 
and the broader social and 
emotional skills required for 
the future workforce. This will 
prepare our students to be  
life-ready graduates. 2. Deliver a dynamic and 
engaging digital offering.  
We will d eliver a digital 
experience that will enable staff 
and students to work and study 
in a flexible, seamless way. 
We will combine the best 
aspects of both physical 
and digital environments to 
promote engagement, support 
community, and to create a 
flexible and distinctive learning 
ecosystem. Doing this in a way 
that is seamless and engaging 
will set us apart.3. Become a trusted lifelong 
partner for our alumni.  
We will b e a life- long trusted 
partner for our alumni, 
supporting them throughout 
their learning lives and 
ensuring they are one of our 
greatest strengths. We will 
position ourselves as a one-stop 
shop for our alumni, acting as 
the broker for the services we 
may provide or where others 
are better positioned to provide 
the service.

CONNECTED  
UCOBJECTIVE 3
28
29Deliver an outstanding, digitally connected, experience 
that removes barriers to access.
We have taken initial steps in the development of a sector leading digital student journey at UC, 
demonstrating our ability to innovate and laying the groundwork for the future of people-centred digital 
infrastructure. ‘Connected UC’ will allow us to drive cultural change and use digital technology to tailor our 
interactions with students, staff, and partners. We will create an integrated, efficient and highly effective UC 
by breaking down the barriers across the university; facilitating seamless engagement and collaboration in 
ways that encompass people, process, digital solutions, and access to real-time data and insights. We will be 
a learning organisation that adapts as we learn. We will promote accessibility for all. 
1. Create lifelong personalised 
digital journeys for 
students and staff.  
We will build  the d igital 
capabilities to support students 
through a personalised, lifelong 
journey, better connecting 
them to UC and improving 
their student experience. 
We will develop an online staff 
portal for systems, processes, 
tools, and information so that 
our staff can focus on making a 
difference without unnecessary 
administrative barriers.2. Deliver new ways of 
working that enhance our 
ability to innovate.  
We kn ow process es can 
become barriers to change 
so we will engage our staff to 
identify these limitations and 
improve them. We will  
re-design our processes to 
enable personalised digital 
experiences for students 
and staff, drawing on input 
from both. This initiative is 
not simply about process 
improvement; it is about 
fundamental changes to 
our working environment that 
enable better interactions, 
better communication and 
better outcomes.3. Continue to enhance our 
culture to deliver a deep 
sense of belonging and an 
outstanding connected 
experience.  
Our culture will support 
our objectives. This is 
fundamental to the success of 
all our initiatives. We have a 
brilliant culture of collegiality, 
respect and belonging at UC. 
The focus of this initiative is on 
continual development, which 
is required to maintain and 
enhance the strong existing 
culture and reinforce diversity 
and accessibility. 

A COMMITMENT 
TO OUR FUTURE
30
31
This strategy, with each of the three objectives, is 
designed to connect us more deeply to our students, 
staff and community. 
We are focussed on connection to make it simpler 
to engage with us, make it more engaging to 
work with us and to ultimately make us the most 
accessible university to those who have the 
ambition and talent to succeed. 
This strategy is deliberately targeted at how we need 
to change to maintain our leadership trajectory in 
the sector and assumes ongoing commitment to the 
university’s core daily work. This is a strategy that 
focuses us on where we will invest strategically to 
secure the future of the university. Investments, both 
human and financial, that will allow us to continue to 
be a leader and innovator in the core research and 
teaching of the university. 
Implicit in how we deliver this change is a responsibility 
to play our part in Australia’s commitment to delivering 
net-zero; a commitment to a sustainable future not 
just for us but also for our community. As we build out 
our campus masterplan, as we deliver on Connected  
strategy, and in every aspect of our education and 
research we will prioritise this sustainable future.  
The delivery of this decadal strategy will be informed 
and supported by other significant institutional 
strategies and plans. These include the Campus 
Master Plan and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander Strategic Plan, as well as future Research, 
Student, and Digital strategic plans. We will move 
quickly to scoping and setting out the major programs 
of work to be undertaken to deliver against our 
strategic objectives. 
We will also build short and long-term plans in the 
coming years that run alongside our core strategy. 
Plans that will respond to the needs of the university as 
they arise. As we develop these supporting plans and 
build the future of UC it is important to note that we 
commit to:  
• Open and transparent governance and 
leadership; and 
• Playing our part in responding to climate change 
by embedding sustainability in all our outcomes. 
32
33HOW WE WILL  
KNOW IF WE 
HAVE SUCCEEDED
The success of Connected  will be evidenced by measures focussing on seven outcomes linked to strategic 
and institutional objectives. Together these measures will track our teaching, research, people and financial 
performance along with progress on connecting to Canberra, connecting for life and building a connected UC.  
*Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortisation (EBITDA)OUTCOME  MEASURE
High quality research that is externally valued and  
globally relevant. Total research income that maintains/grows UC’s 
share of national research income. 
Student success at and beyond UC.Student retention rate, quality of educational 
experience and graduate employment rate. 
Reimagined education offerings that meet market 
demand and drive growth in student numbers.Growth in student numbers in existing and 
new markets. 
Deep and impactful partnerships that enhance 
academic excellence and research impact, and 
encourage campus participation.Enhancement of UC’s partnerships across the three 
domains of education, research and commercial. 
Broadened access and opportunity for students, 
staff, alumni, and partners leading to increased 
participation and accessibility.Indigenous students and staff participation, women 
in leadership and student access and participation. 
Sense of belonging for students, staff and 
alumni that supports wellbeing, connection 
and inclusiveness.Student sense of belonging to UC and staff 
engagement at UC. 
Financially sustainable enabling us to deliver on 
our missionFinancial performance including EBITDA* as 
proportion of revenue. 

This strategy is the culmination of a highly 
collaborative process that has drawn from the 
collective contribution of a broad range of 
university staff, council members, community 
representatives and stakeholders. It is a strategy 
designed to provide the framework against which 
we build our short, medium and long-term plans. 
Plans that will be supported by the necessary 
resources and investments to ensure we are 
able to realise our ambition.
CRICOS #00212K    TEQSA: PRV12003
36

