Université 
Paris-Saclay  
Scientific framework 

Table of Contents  
—
03  Université Paris-Saclay 
 A scientific powerhouse 4  
 … in a world where science is more important than ever 4 
07   Our commitments for better science
 Research-based education  9 
 Innovation and technology transfer 10 
 Open science 11 
 Ethics and scientific integrity 13 
 Outreach and science-society activities 14 
 Diversity 15 
 Sustainability 16 
19   Our seven transversal challenges  
for more impactful science 
 Scientific potential and challenges 20  
  Fundamental research as the basic building block of science 20 
  From fundamental research to societal impact 20 
	 	 Our	seven	core	scientific	challenges	 21 
 1. Health and well-being 22 
 2. Energy, climate, environment, sustainable development 25 
 3. Biodiversity, agriculture and food 28 
 4. Digital transformation and artificial intelligence 31 
 5. Transportation and mobility 34 
 6. Aerospace and space 36 
 7. Industrial renewal 39 
43 Get in touch 43 
47 Appendix - presentation of the Graduate Schools  
 and Institute of Université Paris-Saclay 
 Graduate School Biosphera 48 
 Graduate School Chemistry  49 
 Graduate School Computer science 50 
 Graduate School Economics and management 51 
 Graduate School Education 52 
 Graduate School Engineering and systems sciences 53 
 Graduate School Geosciences, climate, environment, planets 54 
 Graduate School Health and drug sciences  55 
 Graduate School Humanities - heritage science 56 
 Graduate School Law 57 
 Graduate School Life sciences and health 58 
 Graduate School Mathematics 59 
 Graduate School Physics 60 
 Graduate School Public health 61 
 Graduate School Research and higher education 62 
 Graduate School Sociology and political science 63 
 Graduate School Sports, motor and human movement sciences 64
 Institute for the Sciences of light 65 
Université 
Paris-Saclay
4 
—A SCIENTIFIC POWERHOUSE… 
With over 8,000 academic staff and 48,000 
students, Université Paris-Saclay is a major global 
research powerhouse and one of the leading European 
universities.
Created in 2020 through the merger of universities and 
grandes écoles , with the support of national research 
organisations,1 Université Paris-Saclay is a comprehensive 
university, covering most scientific fields in the domains 
of humanities & social sciences, life sciences and sciences 
& engineering.
The university is situated south of Paris, at the heart of one 
of the main European research and innovation ecosystems, 
in the vicinity of very large scientific infrastructures (SOLEIL 
synchrotron, NeuroSpin human MRI imager, etc.) and 
research headquarters of multinational companies (Air 
Liquide, Danone, EDF, Horiba, Kraft, Renault, Thales…), with 
a thriving start-up scene. … IN A WORLD WHERE SCIENCE  
IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN EVER
Université Paris-Saclay was born at a moment of 
growing geopolitical uncertainty, major socio-economic 
shifts and dramatic environmental challenges. 
Intimately linked to the development of technologies which 
offer hope, give rise to new risks and sometimes amplify 
problematic evolutions, the Anthropocene is accelerating 
momentous shifts such as human-induced climate change 
and loss of biodiversity. Science is expected to contribute to 
addressing such contemporary challenges, and is at the same 
time the target of increasing scrutiny and even defiance. 
These trends are intertwined with rising geopolitical tensions 
and a renewed global race for technological dominance, in 
which political considerations for sovereignty and security 
clash with the academic ideals of openness.
These deep phenomena have led to a sobering re-
evaluation of the current existential risks facing humanity. 
They question the role of science and technology and the 
traditional missions of universities, and they guide the 
way we view our role:  Université Paris-Saclay has both the 
potential to contribute to creating a better world and the 
responsibility to act.
This document sets out our scientific framework to achieve 
this. It defines our commitments towards Better Science 
and presents the seven transversal topics where we aim to 
increase our scientific impact.UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY SCIENTIFIC FRAMEWORK
1 Université Paris-Saclay benefits from its strong links with national 
research organisations in France - CNRS, CEA, IHES, Inserm, Inria, Inrae 
and ONERA.Université 
Paris-Saclay 
The Orsay campus.
Christophe Peus/Université Paris-Saclay
5 
—over  400
international partners
5 
Nobel Prize 
winners 11 
Fields medalsNearly 200 
ERC grantsTOP 20
in the ARWU rankingLeader of the EUGLOH  
European university
18 
Graduate Schools 
1 institute
More than  500 
experimentals 
platforms13% 
of French research
Nearly  8,500  
administrative 
and technical staffCrCreated by Danishiconeated by Danishicon
frfrom the Noun om the Noun PrProjecojectt
More than 220 
Laboratories
13,000  
publications a yearNearly 50,000  
students
More than  50 
startups created  
each year6 
incubators8,100  
researchers 
and academic staff
The Lumen Learning Centre at Université Paris-Saclay.
Fernando & Sergio Guerra

Our commitments  
for better science
8 
—UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY SCIENTIFIC FRAMEWORK
Our commitments 
for better science
The pivotal role played by science within the evolution 
of society in the past hundred years is momentous. While 
it has overwhelmingly acted as a beacon of progress and 
a source of solutions to the challenges of everyday life 
(access to energy, health, food security, etc.), it has also 
occasionally amplified global issues. Therefore, universities 
have a unique responsibility not only in the advancement 
of knowledge but in ensuring that this shared knowledge 
serves society ethically and responsibly.
Furthermore, the place of universities in society extends 
beyond just scientific pursuits as they are live hubs of culture, 
education, thought and innovation, contributing to societal 
trajectories. As we navigate these shifting landscapes, it 
becomes imperative for universities to self-reflect, evolve, 
and reaffirm their commitment to both science and society, 
ensuring that their intertwined roles remain harmonious, 
constructive and forward-looking:
•  Firstly, there is a growing awareness of the path-
dependency of technological changes opened by 
scientific advances: science and technologies do not 
only offer solutions but have also been contributing 
in some aspects to widening social inequalities and 
developing the ways of life that caused the ecological 
crisis. This requires universities to renew their concern 
for the societal impact of their endeavours.
•  Secondly, cases of science being enrolled by lobbyists, 
breaches of consent, and other unethical behaviour 
have created a groundswell of doubt amongst the 
general public. Such doubts are exacerbated by 
questions surrounding science’s funding model but 
have also been instrumentalised by lobbyists fighting 
certain environmental and societal evolutions, also 
reinforcing doubts in society. In a context where 
science is increasingly expensive, universities must 
take specific care to preserve their independence and integrity as they grow more interconnected with a 
wide set of stakeholders.
•  Finally, the role of universities in safeguarding and 
creating knowledge has changed dramatically due to 
the information revolution. Today, we need to critically 
assess information more than ever. Information is 
being shared at an unprecedented speed and scale, 
making it harder to ensure scientific robustness of the 
information, whether misinformation is intentional or 
not. The emergence of social media communication 
also restrains nuanced discussions, while the 
development of generative AI creates a further 
challenge in assessing the epistemological status of 
information. In short, we are living through a massive 
paradigm shift in terms of access to, generation of and 
sharing of knowledge, which deeply questions the role 
of universities.
Together these changes question the way universities fulfil 
their core missions of education, research, innovation and 
societal outreach. They drive our seven commitments for 
Better Science.
This aims to ensure that Université Paris-Saclay, as a 
crucible of curiosity-driven and fundamental research, is 
better integrated with our wider ecosystem by reinforcing 
innovation, embedding research even more strongly within 
our educational programmes, and increasing societal outreach .
The commitments have been chosen to better ensure our 
public accountability and align with societal challenges by 
reinforcing our involvement in open science, ethics and 
scientific integrity, diversity and sustainability.
9 
—RESEARCH-BASED EDUCATION
At a time when information is freely available in our 
pockets and many of the jobs in which our students will be 
employed in ten years’ time do not yet exist, it is clear that 
our educational models must continue to evolve. That is one 
of the reasons why Université Paris-Saclay puts education 
at the core of its mission. Each year, 20,000 students and 
1,200 PhDs graduate from our institution: they are our 
most significant and sizable impact on society. These 
graduates are starting new businesses, reinventing existing 
companies, and coming up with creative solutions to 
important societal challenges. Beyond full-time education, 
thousands of participants engage in life-long learning 
programmes, with a specific effort placed on areas which 
are driving contemporary innovation (artificial intelligence, 
aerospace, hydrogen technologies, etc.).
The density of research on all our campuses enables us to 
offer research-based learning by default and ensure that 
the benefits of studying next door to world-class research 
laboratories. are made available to all students on campus.
Our 18 Graduate Schools and one Institute aim to ensure 
interaction between education and research. They serve 
as pillars for academic excellence, underpinning the 
university’s mission to be a world leader in higher education 
and research. They offer a diverse range of specialised 
programmes and courses tailored to the specific needs of 
each scientific discipline and promote an interdisciplinary 
approach, facilitating synergies between different domains, 
and fostering an environment where students and 
researchers can thrive and innovate. They will also educate 
students about the best environmentally friendly practices 
in their disciplines and will spur reasoning about the environmental and societal impacts as well as challenges 
for ecological transition of their disciplines.
Fostering research-based education, as a foundation 
for careers in academia and beyond.  At Université 
Paris-Saclay, we ensure that research-based training starts at 
the undergraduate level. Indeed, a research-based approach 
to education benefits all students, beyond the fraction who 
aim for a career in academia, and cultivates qualities which 
are directly relevant to a wide range of professional pursuits. 
From the capacity to analyse information critically, to that of 
formulating and testing hypotheses; from the confidence to 
go out and explore new territory, to the ease at interacting 
with people from different backgrounds; from the capacity 
to formulate a problem to that of feeling at ease with 
uncertainty and complexity, research-based education is one 
of the major social contributions of Université Paris-Saclay .
Our approach to teaching through research is not confined 
to our academic laboratories as it has expanded through 
close collaboration with the R&D departments of our 
industrial partners. The researchers from these companies 
are not mere collaborators; they are integral to our teaching, 
ensuring that students get a holistic view of both academic 
and industry research landscapes.
Supporting the development of research-based 
practices across our course offer . Since research-based 
education demands more than simply putting a researcher 
and a student in the same classroom, Université Paris-
Saclay supports the development of dedicated teaching and 
learning approaches adapted to the level of studies, from 
the undergraduate level onwards, and to the specificities 
of the disciplines. One of the impulses for this university-
broad effort comes for the FAIR project (Former, Apprendre et 
Innover par la Recherche ), which funds initiatives selected by 
the Graduate Schools to improve research-based education 
both to scale up successful activities (Junior Congress, Junior 
Labs, etc.) and to test new pilot programmes.LEGAL CLINICS 
AT PARIS-SACLAY
The Paris-Saclay legal clinic was founded with the 
aim of providing legal services to people in civil 
society facing conflicts, at the same time as providing 
law students with suitable legal and ethical tools 
to resolve these conflicts. Its ultimate objective is 
to support the younger generation of lawyers in 
building a better world.
The services offered by the Paris-Saclay legal 
clinic are free of charge and cover a wide range of 
cases, such as helping start-ups to create an ethical 
business, preventing disputes with mobile phone 
or hotel service providers, providing support and 
expertise to associations working to protect human 
rights, the environment and climate change.
—
Mechanical and manufacturing engineering students 
at the Cachan University Technical Institute (IUT).
Christophe Peus/Université Paris-Saclay
10 
—Creating a reflective space where academic staff can 
debate and improve their research-based teaching 
& learning approaches . Our commitment to research-
based education is perhaps best illustrated by our strategic 
decision to create a transversal Graduate School dedicated 
to Higher Education and Research. It differs from most other 
Graduate Schools because it involves the whole academic 
community. It provides a space where academic staff and 
graduate students can exchange on their practices and keep 
track with the latest international developments in terms of 
research-based teaching and learning.
 INNOVATION AND 
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
The cutting-edge tools and methodologies currently 
being transformed by innovation, from artificial intelligence 
to personalised medicine, require the combined efforts of 
researchers and practitioners, the know-how of established 
businesses and the daring spirit of entrepreneurs. 
Fundamental research serves as the bedrock for these 
advancements. However, fundamental research alone is 
not sufficient. To truly tackle the complexities of modern 
challenges, it is essential to  collaborate with users, as they 
offer vital insights into real-world applications and needs. 
As one of the leading research-intensive institutions, 
Université Paris-Saclay embraces its role as a partner in 
sustainable innovation projects, whether they are led by 
companies, public actors, or our own students and staff. 
We are convinced that by engaging with socio-economic 
partners, we can bridge the gap between foundational 
knowledge and actionable 
solutions. This integration 
ensures that innovation is 
not only groundbreaking 
but also addresses the 
societal and environmental 
imperatives of our era.
While doing so, Université 
Paris-Saclay also follows 
a clear compass, in which 
innovation is never pursued 
for innovation’s sake, but as 
an instrument for a better 
world, a way to tackle the 
momentous challenges of feeding, caring for, transporting, 
interconnecting and educating nine billion human beings in a 
complex international context. Simply responding to market 
demand or expressed needs does not meet our criteria. In 
fact, the innovation projects stemming from our labs are 
strongly driven by a concern for social impact. Université 
Paris-Saclay is currently strengthening this commitment sby formalising it in its strategic innovation roadmap, giving 
precedence to projects that present scalable remedies to 
urgent challenges and promise enduring beneficial and 
shared outcomes.
Inspired by leading universities in this field, we are working 
across the board to scale up our capacity in the area of 
knowledge transfer and innovation: from the development 
of proof-of-concepts funding, to the creation of unique 
innovation and collaboration places such as the Design 
Spot or the Paris-Saclay Playground, from the setup of a 
dedicated investment fund to the development of a service 
dedicated to industrial relations, from student internships 
to joint labs.
Supporting a shift in mindset: students, researchers, 
staff as innovators . Innovation and technology transfer 
used to be a synonym of patents. While the protection of 
intellectual property remains an important aspect of our 
innovation and technology transfer policy, our main priority 
is to support a shift in mindset among our community: 
to ensure that students, alumni, researchers, staff at 
Université Paris-Saclay all see themselves as innovators in 
their own way. We are progressively extending our set of 
training activities, from undergraduate students to PhDs, 
post-doctoral fellows and experienced researchers, to 
ensure that all members of Université Paris-Saclay who 
want to engage in innovation feel supported and equipped 
to do so successfully.
Boosting startup creation . Many of the maturation 
projects supported by Université Paris-Saclay in the past 
have led to the creation of knowledge-intensive, promising 
startups, tackling major social challenges  (see a list here). 
In line with the national priorities of the Deeptech plan, 
Université Paris-Saclay is intensifying its efforts towards 
the creation of innovative startups. To this end, we are PROJECT FAIR  
FORMER, APPRENDRE ET INNOVER  
PAR LA RECHERCHE
Université Paris-Saclay deploys the “FAIR” project to 
strengthen its activities in the field of research-based 
education, fostering the interface between students 
and laboratories, and enabling them to acquire the 
skills needed for tomorrow’s innovation. 
This consist mostly of hands-on, practical schemes 
to develop innovative research-based learning 
approaches, which are being tailored by each 
Graduate School to the specific requirements of the 
corresponding field of studies.
—
Université Paris-Saclay 
also follows a clear 
compass, in which 
innovation is never 
pursued for 
innovation’s sake, 
but as an instrument 
for a better world
11 
—developing a range of activities tackling all the critical steps 
leading to high-quality projects: awareness training for 
all students and staff, tailored programmes for students-
entrepreneurs, proof-of-concept funding, dedicated 
mentoring schemes and professional support (notably 
thanks to its network of incubators), up to creation and 
fundraising. As a testimony to this overall ambition, the 
Paris-Saclay Seed Fund  ensures that new ventures have the 
financial resources at the critical stage of their development.
Developing an efficient, multifaceted interface 
between labs and socio-economic actors . Across the 
world, innovation-intensive universities are characterised 
by the density and diversity of their connections with non-
academic actors. With many established collaborations 
with industrial partners and society, at the heart of a fast-
growing innovation ecosystem of both large companies 
and SMEs, Université Paris-Saclay is one of these innovation 
clusters in the world. We have a responsibility to make the 
most of it and facilitate both directions:
1.  From our labs to society: we are strengthening our labs’ 
understanding of the potential for industrial transfer 
of the research they carry out. We are developing 
our economic intelligence capabilities, to enable 
researchers to explore potential application markets 
for their discoveries, in coherence with regional, 
national and European strategies. We encourage 
industrial PhDs, who place early-stage researchers in 
close contact with companies, and we develop specific 
training courses so that academic staff are equipped 
to take part in private company’s boards . 
 
2.  From society to our labs: we are making it easier for 
potential partners to identify the skills and know-how of our labs so that industrial partners can easily 
formulate their requests, identify the right people to 
carry out their collaborative projects successfully, and 
benefit from a clearer, more fluid interface with our 
research labs.
OPEN SCIENCE
Open science fortifies the integrity and transparency 
that we view as fundamental to research. It fosters a more 
democratic, inclusive culture where knowledge is more 
widely accessible and ensures that scientific progress is 
truly a collective endeavour. It also has the potential to 
significantly accelerate research and innovation cycles: as 
the magnitude of modern scientific challenges requires 
data on scales that individual studies or institutions 
cannot feasibly produce or manage alone, open science 
approaches make it possible to share datasets, ensuring 
that our research is poised on the appropriate scale.
However, the journey towards fully adopting open science 
is paved with cultural and institutional barriers. Indeed, 
although open science is not necessarily antinomic 
with concerns of information sovereignty, privacy and 
commercialisation, it does require a shift in approach. 
Deeply-rooted in the academic landscape is a competitive 
ethos, and researchers are sometimes incentivised to guard 
their findings and avoid open collaboration and early data 
sharing. Researchers justifiably fear that premature sharing 
could lead to their work being “scooped” or used without 
appropriate attribution, thereby jeopardising their career 
advancement. Additionally, without proper management, 
the large amounts of data being shared through open 
science risk becoming overwhelming silos of isolated 
information, often inaccessible or incomprehensible to 
other researchers. Finally, geopolitical tensions are having 
an increasing impact on cutting-edge research fields and 
raise complex issues related to secrecy.
Effective data management and standardisation are, 
themselves, no trivial task and require a coherent framework, 
comprehensive guidelines and often, specialised tools or 
platforms. Researchers need not only the tools but also the 
training and incentives to manage and standardise data 
sharing effectively. 
Establishing Saclay’s open science strategy . Because 
the accessibility of scientific publications and data fits the 
vision of our role for a public research university today, 
Université Paris-Saclay has made open science a priority. 
We have defined an explicit open science strategy, based 
on the major available frameworks at the national, 
European and international level, to ensure that our 
efforts are aligned with those of the scientific community 
as a whole.QUANDELA:  AN EXAMPLE OF A DEEPTECH 
STARTUP AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Founded in 2017, Quandela is a start-up company 
based at the Centre for Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology, where a unique technology for 
the fabrication of quantum light sources has been 
developed for more than 20 years.  These sources 
are useful for multiple strategic applications such as: 
- Optical quantum computers.
- Quantum communications.
- Quantum light-based imaging and detection.
Quandela has already provided several photon 
sources in different countries and their high efficiency 
has allowed its customers to increase their working 
speed and complexity by several orders of magnitude.
—
12 
—This strategy takes into account the needs and practices 
of different disciplinary fields from the issue of large 
international data bases in astrophysics, to acute concerns 
for the protection of individual data in health or social 
sciences, and concerns of sovereignty and industrial spying 
in key technological fields. It is embedded throughout the 
university in our research teams and institutional structures, 
and monitored through our Open Science Barometer .
Promoting and encouraging publications in open 
access.  Université Paris-Saclay is dedicating significant 
resources to increase open-access publications, by 
promoting the use of the HAL portal and by encouraging 
researchers to work within the principles of open science. 
The push for open access publication is monitored through 
a dedicated tool  and is bearing fruit, with significant 
progress in the proportion of Université Paris-Saclay’s 
publications now being openly accessible (more than 75% 
for 2022 - see image).
To make the effort of publication in HAL as easy as 
possible for the research labs, an application to assist with 
submission to the HAL portal (“BiblioHAL ”), based on an 
interconnection with ORCID, has been deployed throughout 
the University. By offering a robust service designed to help 
researchers streamline and manage their publication, our 
aspiration is to efficiently guide our teams through every 
stage to ensure our researchers focus remains on making 
scientific contributions while easing the challenges of 
research administration. 
Optimising our scientific data and infrastructure.  
Proper storage, management and publication of scientific 
data is key both for tackling the issue of reproducibility 
of scientific results, and for maximising the opportunities 
for use and re-use of scientific data. Recent national 
guidelines as well as the evolution of requirements from 
research funding agencies strongly invite for a change 
of practice in the matter, promoting  FAIR principles  (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). Université 
Paris-Saclay is particularly proactive in this domain, to 
ensure that a maximum of scientific data resulting from 
our teams’ research is freely and easily accessible, in 
compliance with intellectual property and personal data 
requirements. Concretely, we are consolidating a network 
of experts who are helping the change of practices towards 
Open Scientific Data, by providing support, training, and 
curation for the implementation and maintenance of the 
proper data infrastructure. This support mobilises a whole 
range of competencies, from legal expertise to library 
and database management. It is built on our technical 
capacity, and benefits from the fact that Université Paris-
Saclay is the node of several national and European data 
platform infrastructures such as Recherche-Data-Gouv or 
EOSC. It is being tested in scientific communities, where 
open data present particular challenges and relevance 
such as humanities and social sciences, agriculture and 
environment, engineering sciences. It will be deployed 
throughout all research units of the university. 
Raising awareness, training and change 
management . Open science transforms established 
scientific practices. Its quick adoption depends critically 
on training and awareness-raising of new generations of 
researchers so that they acquire the habits of proper data 
management, storage, use and publications. Our training 
is focused on the familiarisation of open access primarily 
to the next generation of researchers in a collaborative 
effort between La Maison du Doctorat and the Department 
of Libraries, Information and Open Science. Université 
Paris-Saclay offers systematic training sessions on the 
issues surrounding open data management, balanced with 
considerations of confidentiality and protection of personal 
information. This concern is particularly strong in some 
fields, such as medical research, where personal data must 
be rigorously protected to guarantee the right to privacy. 
As an example, researchers in public health have been 
working on the initiative “Open CESP“ to develop a tool to 
clone patient’s cohorts’ data, into artificial datasets with the 
same joint distribution as the source data. The aim is to offer 
free access to these artificial datasets in order to stimulate 
broad collaboration and the scientific exploitation of the 
cohorts (with the real data being analysed at a later stage, 
if the results with the cloned dataset are promising), and 
to enable students and researchers from other Graduate 
Schools to familiarise themselves with this data.
Acknowledging Open Science and European 
Sovereignty . Finally, any open science policy must take 
into account the rise of geopolitical tensions and the 
renewed emphasis on technological sovereignty, as well as 
concerns for secrecy in the circulation of knowledge. This 
is all the more important seeing that European universities 
have fallen behind their Chinese and American competitors 
in key scientific fields such as biomedical engineering, 2022 77%
2021 75%
2020 65%
2019 57%
2018 51%
  Université	Paris-Saclay:	open	access	rate	of	scientific	publications	of	
Université Paris-Saclay, with a Crossref DO  I published during the previous 
year by observation year.
13 
—computer science or nanotechnology. The shift in this 
respect has been particularly rapid: whereas five years ago 
talks about sovereignty applied to the scientific field would 
have seemed antiquated, today scientific espionage and the 
intervention of national security agencies are increasingly 
common. However, as a leading scientific actor, we are 
also convinced that Europe’s commitment to academic 
freedom and open science is one of our greatest assets. 
This commitment goes hand in hand with our mission to 
strengthen European scientific sovereignty.
ETHICS AND SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY
Public trust in science is currently faltering. Scientific 
integrity has never been so present in the news with cases 
of plagiarism, data alteration, and problematic links with 
funders highlighted around the world. At the same time, 
the environmental and societal consequences of scientific 
practices and technological development constantly raises 
ethical issues.
These issues reinforce the importance of Université Paris-
Saclay’s commitment to promote high standards of scientific 
integrity and its resolution to create mechanisms to debate 
explicitly the ethical implications of its activities.
Indeed, scientific excellence is only meaningful if it goes 
together with impeccable research integrity practices and 
environmental and societal awareness. This is not only a 
matter of individual practice, but a deeply collective and 
institutional issue: we can and should promote collective 
scientific practices which make it easier, and not more 
difficult, to abide by good deontological and scientific 
integrity practices. Scientific integrity will truly progress 
only if we acknowledge the fact that some features 
of the scientific sector - such as the high level of competition 
and the pressure to publish - make research integrity 
more challenging.
By signing the Charte nationale de déontologie des métiers de 
la recherche , Université Paris-Saclay emphasises scientific 
integrity to ensure that they prevail across our missions. We 
view this as a crucial step towards a democratic state where 
moral reasoning is discussed openly. 
Setting up internal processes and bodies in ethics 
and scientific integrity . To pursue this goal, Université 
Paris-Saclay has taken steps that go beyond its regulatory 
obligations as per the French Code de l’Éducation . Thus, 
Université Paris-Saclay has recently reinforced Poléthis, 
its internal body in charge of coordinating efforts in 
the area of scientific integrity and ethics. A pioneering 
bodycreated in 2018, Poléthis offers researchers support 
in terms of thematic ethics monitoring and consultation, enabling them to anticipate the ethical aspects as well 
as environmental and societal impacts of their research 
projects within the framework of a dedicated committee. 
Poléthis is also supported by a network of representatives 
of scientific integrity throughout the community (“référents 
intégrité	scientifique ”), to provide advice on dealing 
with cases of scientific integrity 
breaches and to design specific 
training sessions in scientific 
integrity for doctoral students 
and supervisors.
Poléthis gathers the people in 
charge of ethics, deontology 
and legal aspects of research 
integrity. The President of the 
university may refer to this 
body to provide an opinion on 
any question of scientific ethics 
and integrity. It does not have a decision-making authority, 
but can highlight potential conflicts of values in specific 
projects, collaborations or partnerships. It thus creates 
a reflective space within the university where intrinsically 
complex ethical issues entailed by our scientific practices 
can be made explicit, pondered and discussed.
Efforts to promote research integrity are relayed throughout 
the university, with Graduate Schools, research laboratories 
and individual staff and students developing their own 
initiatives. Together with Poléthis, Graduate Schools are placing 
a specific emphasis on the training of younger generations 
of researchers and of the 4,500 doctoral candidates, by 
embedding these issues in training programmes, by creating 
explicit criteria to select collaborating institutions, or by 
raising awareness about plagiarism issues.
Changing research evaluation frameworks . Beyond 
these actions to promote ethics and scientific integrity, 
Université Paris-Saclay is well aware that a deeper 
transformation of the research evaluation framework is Scientific excellence 
is only meaningful if 
it goes together with 
impeccable research 
integrity practices and 
environmental and 
societal awareness
Fondation L’OréalA PhD candidate at the Paris-Saclay Institute of Neuroscience 
(NeuroPSI – Univ. Paris-Saclay/CNRS).
14 
—necessary. The prevailing bibliometric indicators used for 
evaluating scientific progress often become self-referential, 
inadvertently promoting behaviours that might compromise 
scientific integrity: an academic researcher will be rewarded 
for publishing articles, which are highly cited by their peers, 
independently of the societal impact of their research or of 
their investment in teaching. This creates a world in which 
researchers are valued for having highly-cited papers rather 
than for ground-breaking scientific discoveries, and might 
dissuade researchers from dedicating time to undergraduate 
teaching or engaging in meaningful industry collaborations.
Addressing this issue will 
take time because citation 
impact still drives both 
university rankings and 
researcher evaluation and 
career paths, and because 
no clear collective alternative 
exists at the moment. 
Université Paris-Saclay 
is committed to working 
both internally in our 
recruitment and evaluation 
processes and externally 
as signatories of major 
international agreements 
such as DORA, the San Francisco Declaration on Research 
Assessment and members of CoARA, the Coalition for 
Advancing Research Assessment. As a concrete example, 
Université Paris-Saclay is currently reviewing its recruitment 
and promotion guidelines for academic staff to go beyond 
simple bibliometric indicators and encourage a broader, 
more complete assessment of scientific contributions and 
other commitments over the course of careers. OUTREACH AND 
SCIENCE-SOCIETY ACTIVITIES
In a knowledge-intensive society, science and 
technological development must be anchored much more 
deeply in the principles of democracy, equity, and political 
participation. In this perspective, science is the outcome 
of a dialogue between university and society, in a world in 
which knowledge is shared with all audiences and sustains 
shared democratic values.
Université Paris-Saclay thus views scientific outreach and 
participatory science as one of its core missions. We have a 
responsibility to be far more present as a place of constant 
debate around the great societal challenges, where we 
can contribute methods and knowledge and where our 
scientists, students, the general public and policy makers 
exchange on an equal footing.
This commitment to promoting open, rational discussion 
is particularly relevant today and requires specific settings, 
as public discussion is often led in ways that prevent the 
expression of doubt and nuance. We therefore actively 
engage in initiatives which promote rational debate, and 
protect and support the academics who decide to engage 
in public outreach and media.
The first strategy is focused on outreach and 
engagement to bring science closer to citizens . 
Université Paris-Saclay has long been supporting its staff  
and students who engage in science outreach activities.
Our science outreach activities target the general public, 
thanks notably to  La Diagonale, a service centre designed 
to assist staff and students in their Science with and for 
Society activities. Actions range from scientific outreach, 
social and cultural engagement, arts-science interfaces, or 
the promotion of scientific heritage. Université Paris-Saclay 
benefits in this respect from unique infrastructures, such as 
the Scène de Recherche, a fully equipped professional theatre 
dedicated to the dialogue of arts, sciences and technologies 
with an emphasis on outreach and public participation.
An important dimension of scientific outreach deals with 
academic staff either being asked by the media to speak 
as experts, or actively writing blogs, newspaper articles 
or opinion pieces. To guide our academic staff in this 
important but complex area where professional expertise is 
sometimes closely intertwined with personal convictions, we 
provide support as well as media training and development 
of scientific communication and mediation skills. 
The second strategy is to encourage participatory 
science . Participatory science practices are continuously 
growing, from involving the public in data collection and 
observation, to requesting public collaboration in analysis SMALL PRIVATE ONLINE COURSE  
ETHICS & STICS: SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY, 
RESEARCH ETHICS  
& INFORMATION ETHICS FOR ICTS
An 8-chapter online course designed to help 
students understand what integrity in research 
means and why it is important to follow an ethical 
conduct in research work.
Efforts to promote 
research integrity are 
relayed throughout 
the university, with 
Graduate Schools, 
research laboratories 
and individual staff and 
students developing their 
own initiatives
Université Paris-Saclay
15 
—and data treatment, and up to the more ambitious co-design 
and co-implementation of research projects by mixed teams 
involving scientists and members of the general public. 
Université Paris-Saclay supports academic staff in the 
development of this range of practices. Notable examples 
include involvement in the Vigi-ciel project, which relies on 
public participation to identify and analyse meteorites, or 
the development of the Living Lab in Corbeville - a place 
for experimentation in the field of urban agriculture and 
food transition, which involves researchers, citizens, local 
authorities and local socio-economic actors. 
DIVERSITY
Universities are born from a powerful ideal: a 
community which is organised around the quest for 
knowledge and ideals of openness and respect. The real-life 
translation of this ideal is far from perfect. Universities are, 
like any other human collectives, vulnerable to powerful 
social dynamics which, if left unchecked, create exclusions, 
favour silos, or are prone to power dynamics. We cannot 
simply accept such consequences as a fatality: we need to 
look at them lucidly and understand them, so we can take 
energic steps to fight them.
Université Paris-Saclay is deeply committed to protecting 
a diverse, respectful collective, which it does both 
by supporting research and innovation on issues of 
discrimination, equality and inclusion, and by taking active 
steps to implement on its campuses.
Staying true to our strong commitment to equity and 
inclusion . Université Paris-Saclay is resolutely committed to promote a culture of equity and inclusion, within its 
campuses and beyond. It is committed, beyond what is 
legally required, to the fight against discrimination based on 
gender, sexual orientation, social origin and disability.
Access to higher education and the success of all are 
encouraged by equal opportunity measures (see text 
box on the “Cordées de la Réussite”, in the section below). 
Various awareness-raising events are being organised by 
the university, in particular around the international days 
for the fight for women’s rights, against LGBTphobia, and 
against violence against women. 
Empowering the next generation through education, 
inclusion and scientific exploration . The younger 
generation is a key target of this approach. In order to train 
young people to exercise their citizenship in a critical and 
enlightened way, to learn more about the world of research 
and to become more familiar with scientific methods, we 
support initiatives such as the Maison d’Initiation et de 
Sensibilisation aux Sciences (MISS) , where pupils from 
primary and secondary schools are welcomed for a day of 
fun and educational activities in our laboratories. One of 
our programmes is directed specifically towards secondary 
school girls to give them a new perspective on mathematics, 
computing and the physical sciences by enabling them to 
meet women staff and role models and discuss their future 
career paths and professional motivations.
With the aim to increase social equity and inclusion, our 
students are encouraged to take part in the Cordées de 
la réussite which offers secondary school pupils a chance 
to learn about science and its careers, whatever their CORDÉES DE LA RÉUSSITE
The Cordées de la réussite scheme aims to promote 
access to higher education for young people from all 
socio-cultural backgrounds, by giving them the keys 
to successfully embark on the pathways to excellence.
It aims to: 
-  Promote educational success for all, parity and 
equal opportunities.
-  Combat self-censorship among young people, 
particularly in priority, rural and isolated areas,  
and in technological and vocational streams.
-  Help pupils discover careers and career paths.
-  Promote cultural and scientific awareness  
among pupils.
—PROMOTING SCIENTIFIC HERITAGE: 
THE EXAMPLE OF THE DIGITAL LIBRARY 
NUMACLAY
Numaclay, the digital 
library of Université 
Paris-Saclay, facilitates 
access to scientific 
heritage and scientific 
archives - such as 
the Jean Gaudemet 
archive presented in 
the image. 

16 
—socio-cultural background. Every year, roughly 1,800 
students from 80 secondary schools from disadvantaged 
neighbourhoods or isolated rural areas engage regularly 
with 300 tutors selected amongst the students from our 
university. The objectives are to encourage a taste for the 
sciences, demystify higher education and give young people 
the opportunity to find out more about careers and courses. 
Fighting sexist and sexual violence . Determined to 
create a serene work and study environment for all, 
Université Paris-Saclay is committed and a pioneer in the 
fight against gender-based and sexual violence. We have a 
“zero tolerance” policy for sexist and sexual acts, support 
victims and witnesses through a dedicated unit and various 
local partners, and deploy a training plan, which covers all 
university communities, from students to leadership teams.
SUSTAINABILITY
The Université of Paris-Saclay has long been 
committed to researching environmental issues and 
the effects of climate change, including its impact on our 
societies and living organisms. Université Paris-Saclay also 
recognises its responsibility to disseminate knowledge and 
to take action to limit detrimental impacts of its activities on 
the environment. It has thus made a commitment, through 
its sustainable development charter, to be a lever for socio-
ecological transition. This commitment translates into the 
support for the production of knowledge on environmental 
changes, on the associated risks and on the means (technical 
and natural) of transformation for sustainability. It also 
involves supporting the training and raising awareness of our communities, particularly our students, who are 
called upon to experience these changes and to be actors 
in societal transitions. We will continuously deepen our 
strategy to reduce our own environmental impacts.
Promoting a sober, sustainable campus . In the years 
to come, important efforts are required to reduce the 
environmental impact of our teaching or research practices.  
Sufficiency is a major aspect of these efforts, in parallel 
with longer-term decarbonisation actions. Many of the 
involved changes require an in-depth transformation of 
our existing work and study practices. However the urgency 
of the challenge requires us to implement the required 
changes as quickly as possible. The action plan currently 
being discussed within the whole Université Paris-Saclay 
community relies on four major impact areas:
1.  Procurement - a thorough analysis of current practices 
aims at ensuring that we buy less and better, through 
a better screening of needs and mutualisation of 
resources.
2.  Transportation - as home-to-campus and on-campus 
mobility are a significant source of greenhouse gas 
emissions, Université Paris-Saclay is implementing 
a transportation blueprint to offer sustainable 
alternatives (bike, public transport, car pooling, etc).
3.  Energy consumption on campus - a process is 
underway to improve the energy efficiency of our 
real-estate, and requires a multi-year planning and 
investment process.
A Bridgman furnace for the development of ceramic materials.
THE GREEN DEAL OBSERVATORY
This initiative is a scientific, educational and 
institutional project that aims to mobilise the 
academic community to analyse the actions taken 
as part of the European Green Deal presented by 
the European Commission in December 2019, with 
the aim of making Europe climate neutral by 2050. 
Nearly 150 legislative and non-legislative initiatives 
have been launched by the European Union, 
providing fertile ground not only for research but 
also for teaching. 
Led by researchers at the Université of Paris-Saclay, 
the Green Deal Observatory relies on contributors in 
domestic law, European law, international law and 
political science, who can publish their work on the 
dedicated website with the aim of centralising ideas 
and gathering information useful for understanding 
the issues at stake in this vast political programme.
—Onera, centre de Châtillon
17 
—4.  Food and catering - discussions are underway with the 
catering providers for students and staff to diminish 
their environmental impact.
Developing research on sustainable development. 
Université Paris-Saclay has identified seven major 
interdisciplinary societal challenges. Many of them (Health 
& well-being; Energy, climate, sustainable development; 
Biodiversity, agriculture and food; Transport and mobility) 
are key for sustainable development. The breadth of 
the research carried out at the University in this area is 
presented in the dedicated section below, and deals with:
•  The better understanding of environmental changes and 
associated  risks for human societies and living beings.
• Solutions for a sustainable future.
•  Issues related to equity in resource distribution and use.
The urgency of the environmental crisis raises deep 
issues, which are currently being debated collectively 
throughout the university, in the wake of recent seminars 
and conferences - among others, to what extent should we 
actively prioritise research directly relevant to sustainability 
concerns, or to what extent should we refrain from engaging 
in research which into research lines which might favour 
non-sustainable applications.
Orienting research practices towards sustainability . 
At the same time as our research teams explore the 
mechanisms of environmental changes and possible solutions, research activities themselves generate a 
significant environmental impact. We cannot ignore this 
tension. Université Paris-Saclay is taking active steps to 
analyse the carbon-footprint of its research activity, and 
promote accessible practices, adapted to each lab on a 
case-by-case basis.
Raising awareness and reaching out . Université Paris-
Saclay offers a significant number of study paths which 
are directly relevant to sustainable development and train 
future professionals equipped to tackle the challenges of the 
environmental transitions: five professional undergraduate 
degrees, more than 30 Master’s tracks, more than 15 
engineering specialisation tracks are currently being 
offered within departments ranging from natural sciences 
(geosciences, engineering, etc.) to humanities and social 
sciences (law, economics, public policy, etc.). Université Paris-
Saclay has been also a pioneer with the introduction, as early 
as 2020, of a large-scale undergraduate teaching module 
dealing with ecological transition, accessible as a SPOC 
and mandatory for second-year undergraduate students. A 
result of the collaboration of more than 40 academic staff  
from many disciplinary fields, this module is the basis for the 
open access book, Enjeux	de	la	transition	écologique.
Université Paris-SaclayUniversité Paris-Saclay

Our seven 
transversal 
challenges for more 
impactful science
20 
—UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY SCIENTIFIC FRAMEWORK
Our seven 
transversal challenges  
for more impactful science
 SCIENTIFIC POTENTIAL 
AND CHALLENGES
 FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH AS THE BASIC 
BUILDING BLOCK OF SCIENCE 
Université Paris-Saclay is particularly renowned 
for its excellence in fundamental science, in fields where 
science proceeds with the sole objective to explore and 
push the limits of knowledge.
This is true, for instance, in mathematics, where Université 
Paris-Saclay is amongst the very best universities in the 
world; in physics, where a critical mass of scientists covers 
all major domains - from 
fundamental to applied 
research, from theory, 
modelling and simulation 
to instrumentation, from 
lab experiences to large 
research infrastructures; 
and many other areas, from 
clinical medicine, chemistry, 
biology, engineering, to 
political and social sciences.
All these fields delve into 
the core principles and 
laws governing matter, life, 
and society, and they come 
together within interdisciplinary projects to lift scientific 
barriers which require the combined expertise of formal 
sciences, health sciences, engineering, humanities and 
social sciences.
This commitment to curiosity-driven exploration is also true 
for many of our researchers in applied sciences, which study 
complex entities often resulting from human endeavours, 
like agronomy, legal studies, and economics.This is why Université Paris-Saclay is committed to the long-
term view. Science is a bet on the future. The technologies 
which transform care, food production, transport or 
education today have been decades in the making. They 
were made possible because universities around the world 
have supported exploration, with the unique compass of 
scientific rigour. The same is true for the concepts, ideas, 
regulations that enable us to articulate technological 
advances with concerns for equity and social flourishing: 
these exist because we nourish spaces for open dialogue, 
research and exploration.
In a context where the pressure for accountability is 
growing, and where public funders as well as citizens rightly 
ask about impact, stating this fact is not trivial: it means that 
we intend to continue to be a place which invests for the 
long-term.
 FROM FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH  
TO SOCIETAL IMPACT
This value placed on curiosity-driven research is 
necessary to feed our concern for societal impact. Time and 
again, the history of scientific discoveries shows that major 
advances in our understanding of fundamental aspects of 
the universe happen hand in hand with the efforts to solve 
concrete problems. Exploration and application are two 
faces of the same coin to serve social progress.
When looking at the scientific dynamics within a sector 
devoted to a given social finality - such as batteries, 
photovoltaic sources of energy, therapeutic advances 
- some projects are very close to application and some 
delve into more fundamental problems. These feedback 
loops are key. They are only possible if research-intensive 
universities are sufficiently connected with society, free 
to encourage exploration, large and diverse to enable 
serendipitous encounters, and with the right incentives Université Paris-Saclay 
is particularly renowned 
for its excellence in 
fundamental science, 
in fields where science 
proceeds with the sole 
objective to explore and 
push the limits 
of knowledge
21 
—in the right places to maximise the 
likelihood of success.
The role of Université Paris-Saclay 
is to be both a place for exploration 
and for connection, both a protected 
space to cultivate bold ideas and a 
crucible for interactions. Because 
the best exploration science feeds 
the most innovative ideas, we will 
fulfil our mission if we continue to 
be a place which supports curiosity-
driven projects while sustaining 
dense interactions with the non-
academic stakeholders. 
This place for exploration and 
connection is also a hub of 
international cooperation: as a 
research-intensive university, the 
labs of Université Paris-Saclay 
are nodes in a scientific network 
which unfolds globally. This 
commitment unfolds at different 
scales: by supporting one-to-one 
international collaboration between single scientists, 
by ensuring that the educational experience offered to 
students at Université Paris-Saclay opens them up to the 
world and global realities, by committing to the European 
Education and Research Area and by cultivating institution-
wide strategic partnerships.
OUR SEVEN CORE SCIENTIFIC CHALLENGES
The following pages shed light on seven major 
transversal challenges where the interdisciplinary range of 
Université Paris-Saclay contributes to topics of immediate social interest - Health & well-being; Energy, climate, 
sustainable development; Biodiversity, agriculture and food; 
Digital transformation and artificial intelligence; Transport 
and mobility; Space and aeronautics; Industrial renewal.
Not all the projects being developed at the university are 
directly relevant to these challenges. It is essential that 
we create space for pursuing ideas simply for the sake 
of pushing the boundaries of knowledge. However, a 
significant share of the research, education, and innovation 
activities which take place at Université Paris-Saclay directly 
impacts these seven broad areas, by mobilising the relevant 
interdisciplinary connections.
  Map of Université Paris Saclay’s partner institutions, on the basis of co-publications.  
Source: Scopus - period: 2013-2022.
Address societal 
challenges
22 
—These challenges are tackled:
•  In research , where scientific teams come together to 
address open issues.
•  In innovation, where public and private partners 
collaborate to codesign new solutions and products, 
and develop education programmes to train future 
innovators.
•  In education, where the 20,000 new graduates trained 
each year by Université Paris-Saclay, have been 
prepared to relate their academic expertise with 
today’s challenges.
1. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Placed in a large-scale perspective, recent progress in 
health and well-being has been nothing short of astounding. 
However, in light of modern research, health is being 
viewed not just through the lens of traditional medicine but 
in a broader paradigm that spans from the molecule to the 
planet. And yet, many diverse, new or persistent challenges 
remain unresolved, as recalled by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the plateauing of human 
life expectancy witnessed 
in many countries, or 
the persistence of large 
health inequities among 
populations.
The research community 
is called to invent new 
approaches to issues sharing 
a common feature: their 
radical interdisciplinarity, as 
they mobilise a number of 
scientific fields from biology 
and chemistry to sociology 
and economics, material 
sciences or mathematics. 
Today, the health sector is 
not merely about medicine; 
it has become a platform 
where various disciplinary fields come together.
The contributions of Université Paris-Saclay, both in 
research, education and innovation, are directly related 
to tackling a series of major diseases, from cancer, 
cardiovascular diseases, immune and infectious diseases, 
neurological disorders, hepatic and metabolic diseases, 
major depressive disorders, up to rare diseases. They are 
also directly relevant to other pressing concerns such as 
mental health up to psychiatric diseases, ageing, notably 
through expertise in the range of neurodegenerative and inflammatory diseases, but also nutrition or the quality of 
life in conditions of disabilities. 
EXISTING ASSETS
Université Paris-Saclay is well placed to take part in these 
momentous challenges:
•  It has a considerable scientific community in the core 
disciplines - medicine, pharmacy, biology, health 
sciences, chemistry.
•  A strong centre of epidemiology research, of which it 
is one of the historical birthplaces (in Villejuif), it adds 
consolidated expertise in public health with a social 
sciences perspective, to the core disciplines.
•  It actively cultivates interfaces with a whole range of 
relevant disciplines, notably:
    -  Mathematics and computer science, to bring the 
capacities in modelling, simulation and big data 
analysis which are required by contemporary 
health challenges.
     -  Engineering and material science, to push forward 
new medical devices, implants, prosthetics, and 
treatments.
    -   Social sciences, to broaden the approach to health 
encompassing social, cultural, economic and 
political factors.
•  It is at the heart of many large-scale, nationally supported 
initiatives, totalling multi-million funding over ten years: 
university hospital institute on sepsis (IHU), several 
national programmes in health (notably on biotherapies 
and innovative therapies; emerging infectious diseases; 
food systems, microbiome and health; digital health), 
the Paris-Saclay Cancer Cluster, etc.
•  Finally, it benefits from extensive pioneering 
infrastructure. Université Paris-Saclay is home to 
world-leading teaching and research hospital facilities,  
renowned cancer centres, and leading medical-surgical 
centres. It can also rely on more than 100 specialised 
platforms with advanced equipment, adapted to the 
characterisation of potential therapeutic targets, 
genomic analyses or molecular screening through 
innovative imaging techniques, allowing for the study 
of the continuum from the molecular scale to the 
individual. It also benefits from the maintenance of 
many cohorts for longitudinal studies. 
Our academic focus in the interconnected realms of 
health and well-being is effectively illustrated through our 
publications records. The diagram shows, for Université 
Paris-Saclay’s publication relevant for this challenge, the 
share of the respective disciplines.The teams at Université 
Paris-Saclay bring the 
combined expertise in 
molecular modelling, 
chemistry, synthetic 
biology, molecular and 
cellular biology, omic 
sciences, pharmacology 
and toxicology, which  
are necessary to reap 
the benefits from 
new approaches
23 
—ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Understanding the fundamental mechanisms behind 
health and pathology.  Therapeutic advances today 
rely largely on our capacity to understand the underlying 
mechanisms at the molecular level. In particular, the new 
rise of precision medicine is made possible because of this 
ever-improving capacity to reach and understand molecular 
and cellular events. The teams at Université Paris-Saclay 
bring the combined expertise in molecular modelling, 
chemistry, synthetic biology, molecular and cellular biology, 
omic sciences, pharmacology and toxicology, which are 
necessary to reap the benefits from new approaches. They 
benefit from a strong basis of biological research with a 
wide diversity of experimental models such as: mammals, 
insects, nematodes, microorganisms, and plants. These 
research lines aiming at deciphering the most minute 
mechanisms of life rely on cutting-edge technological 
platforms in optical imaging, mass spectroscopy, high-
flow sequencing, and biophysics. The proximity with the 
synchrotron SOLEIL is a key asset as it offers a last-generation 
electron cryo-microscope, essential to advance structural 
biology. Another important field of expertise of Université 
Paris-Saclay at that level lies with its large microbiology 
community (more than 100 research teams), going from 
the study of microorganisms to microbial communities and 
microbiota. Furthermore, another domain where Université Paris-Saclay is contributing to our 
understanding of the fundamental 
conditions of health and pathology is 
that of neurosciences: with two highly 
recognised institutes (NeuroPSI and 
NeuroSpin), the teams at Université 
Paris-Saclay study brain functioning 
from the molecular level to the 
neuronal circuit level and from basic 
to clinical aspects.
Emerging frontiers in synthetic 
biology.  Synthetic biology is an 
emerging science that combines 
biology, mathematics, computer 
science, physics and chemistry 
to design new applications in 
biotechnology and health. Within 
Université Paris-Saclay, our teams 
work on the development of active 
design and machine learning tools, 
innovative bioactive molecules 
and microbial chassis. However, 
despite the advancements of this 
field, the major socio-economic 
challenges in synthetic biology 
concern applications in: (i) programmable medicine with a 
living/electronic interface for diagnosis and treatment, the 
synthesis of new compounds, and the design of innovative 
biosensors for disease detection; (ii) bio-manufacturing, 
including living/materials interfaces (e.g. living materials 
that repair themselves) and the engineering of cell-free 
systems; (iii) digital tools for a change of scale in the 
bioengineering of biological circuits, including design tools, 
machine learning, and the automation of the Design-Build-
Test-Learn (DBTL) cycle; and in the longer term (iv) artificial 
design of microbiomes for the benefit (e.g. protection Medicine 80%
Biochemistry, genetics
and molecular biology35%
20% 60% 40% 0%Immunology
and microbiology9.00%
Neuroscience 6.30%
Engineering
Pharmacology
Multidisciplinary
Psychology, humanities,
social sciences
Chemistry4.20%
4.00%
3.60%
3.20%
2.90%
  Distribution of publications relevant for health and well-being.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in health and well-being, 
80.9% pertain to medicine. Note that the total is superior to 100% because one publication can pertain 
to	several	fields.
HUB PASREL: A NETWORK 
TO PROMOTE CLINICAL TRANSFER
The PASREL Hub aims to support the projects of 
laboratory and industrial partners, by connecting 
them to relevant resources (experts, academic or 
industrial partners, valorisation structures, etc.) and 
by facilitating tests in a hospital environment.
It also aims to develop training at the interface of 
technology and medicine and to reflect on the 
professions of tomorrow, in conjunction with 
caregivers and manufacturers.
More information: https://www.pasrel.universite-
paris-saclay.fr/en/the-pasrel-hub/
—
24 
—against disease) of the host organism. A more global vision 
of synthetic biology is needed to meet these challenges.
Identifying and validating new therapeutic targets . 
Based on this expertise in the underlying mechanisms 
of pathologies, the teams at Université Paris-Saclay are 
actively engaged in the identification of new therapeutic 
targets, by combining knowledge in pharmacology, 
therapeutic chemistry, antibodies engineering, molecular 
and cellular biology, genetics, nanomedicines for drug 
delivery and drug targeting.  Université Paris-Saclay teams 
are particularly strong in the upstream part of the chain, 
involving the research and validation of targets, screening, 
structural analysis and medicinal chemistry. Cancer 
research, specifically immunotherapy, personalised 
cancer treatment and radiotherapy, are major areas 
of strength at Université Paris-Saclay. These areas of 
strength are enhanced by therapeutic trials, high-level 
publications which include work on the links between the 
efficacy and toxicity of anti-cancer immunotherapies and 
the microbiota, the links between therapeutic response 
and advances in imaging and artificial intelligence, projects 
on the toxicity of new anti-cancer drugs developed and 
research into paediatric oncology.
Creating the conditions for translational research, 
innovative therapies, clinical research and 
advanced medical devices. Université Paris-Saclay 
actively associates academic and clinical staff to ensure 
a bidirectional flow of knowledge, from fundamental 
research to the patient and vice versa, promoting a strong 
continuum “from bench to bedside”. The aim is to produce 
new ways to address currently unmet societal needs 
(rare diseases, chronic diseases, transmissible and non-
transmissible diseases), to unlock the promises of precision 
medicine and to develop pharmacogenomics. In a context 
where regulations on medical devices are increasingly 
stringent, the teams at Université Paris-Saclay can access 
cutting-edge platforms for physical and chemical analyses 
which enable them to understand the biocompatibility of implantable medical devices. The challenge in this respect 
is for fundamental research to go hand-in-hand with clinical 
research and regulations to support industrial partners and 
health authorities in their need to evaluate medical devices 
throughout their life cycle, from design to commercialisation 
and use. 
The COVID-19 crisis showed how crucial it was to rapidly 
develop diagnosis and therapeutic approaches and make 
them widely accessible. It emphasised how deeply challenging 
it was to share solutions with developing countries and in 
general ensure a general access to health. It also revealed 
the gaps in our understanding of the interactions between 
pathogens and immunity - all the more concerning that new 
viral emergence is likely and antibiotic resistance increases. 
Infectious diseases are, however, just one example among 
many of the need to strengthen translational research. 
Other obvious examples include cancer, in particular to test 
the promises of immunotherapies or targeted therapies, as 
well as neurological and hepatic diseases, where teams are 
exploring the possibility to repair and regenerate tissues 
and cells. The teams at Université Paris-Saclay are heavily 
involved in clinical trials in order to measure and characterise 
the pharmacodynamic effects of active molecules in the 
human body, to assess their pharmacokinetic features, and 
to evaluate both their biological and clinical innocuity and 
efficiency. Such clinical trials rely notably on the cohorts 
and registries controlled by the hospital services, the clinical 
research centres and the clinical research units within the 
perimeter of Université Paris-Saclay.
Another particularly relevant area of development for 
innovative therapies and medical devices in Université 
Paris-Saclay lies in the capacity to create synergies between 
the community of material scientists, nanoscientists and 
health scientists to produce advances in medical devices. 
This collaboration promotes advancements in medical 
devices. Furthermore, the interface of health with computer 
science and bio-manufacturing opens up promising 
avenues for innovation, leveraging synthetic biology and 
exploring biomaterials potential. These various activities 
in the domain of therapeutic innovation and medical 
devices are leading to an intense activity of technology 
transfer and start-up creation, which is supported by the 
various technology transfer support services in the area of 
Saclay, as well as by competitiveness clusters. The dense 
network of economic partners contributes to the success 
of technology transfer, with collaborations with national 
and international pharmaceutical companies and many 
biotechnology companies.
Applying a multidisciplinary approach to public 
health and life-circumstance well-being . Université 
Paris-Saclay is one of the cradles of French epidemiology 
and health research. Today, it is home to a very large 
community in the domain, which leads multidisciplinary 
Fibre optic experiment at the Charles Fabry Laboratory  
(Univ. Paris-Saclay/CNRS/IOGS).
A. Chézière/Institut d’Optique Graduate School
25 
—research ranging from epidemiology, clinical research, and 
biostatistics to social sciences and humanities. They cultivate 
an integrative perspective which combines fundamental 
biological phenomena with environmental aspects, as 
well as a concern for social inequalities and culture. This 
research notably benefits from large-scale studies and data 
collections and resorts to a wide range of methods including 
large-scale statistical techniques and bioinformatics.
An important dimension of the work conducted in this 
respect at Université Paris-Saclay deals with the ethical 
issues raised by medical and scientific advances in public 
health. Future challenges include notably the integration 
of the spectacular progress in the exploitation of large-
scale data sets, including through the use of artificial 
intelligence. Another key issue requiring a strong 
multidisciplinary approach is the chronicisation of 
diseases, as well as the growing impact of environmental 
risk factors. A third such momentous challenge deals with 
the need for regulation evolution which systematically 
appears with advances in care and requires the combined 
efforts of pharmacologists, health care specialists, jurists, 
political scientists, economists, etc. All these challenges 
make it absolutely necessary to increase synergies 
between methods and disciplines to support the quick 
evolution of research questions.
In line with this, Université Paris-Saclay’s research teams 
are strongly committed to leveraging their comprehensive 
understanding of diseases and pathologies to improve 
well-being in diverse life circumstances. This includes 
addressing challenges such as ageing, disability, and 
ergonomics. The aim is to promote a multidimensional quality of life, whether that means preserving well-
being as populations age, encouraging physical activity, 
improving workplace conditions, or developing means to 
compensate for disabilities. Two key lines of development 
in this respect include (1) the integration of health sciences 
with humanities and social sciences; (2) the research in the 
area of human-machine interaction through user-centred 
methods, with applications ranging from the training 
of social skills for children on the autistic spectrum, to 
motivational applications for back-pain or diabetic patients. 
Accelerating our understanding of global health 
challenges . Université Paris-Saclay is actively supporting 
the recent attention to the “global” dimensions of 
health, which articulates its human, animal, vegetal and 
ecological aspects. The university notably benefits in this 
respect from the expertise of research teams coming 
from economics and management sciences, which are 
studying the economy and management of the health 
sector, territorial health policies, as well as the articulation 
between nutrition and health from a political and social 
point of view. Our understanding of the preconditions 
of health, therefore, extends to that of the management 
of health institutions and of the underlying factors 
explaining health inequalities. This emphasis placed on 
global health is particularly relevant to prevent zoonoses 
and pandemics. The teams at Université Paris-Saclay are 
also actively contributing to the “one health” paradigm, 
notably by setting up a new health clinic in France 
dedicated to health law, biotechnology law and the law of 
living organisms.
 2.  ENERGY, CLIMATE, ENVIRONMENT, 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The momentous challenges generated by rapid 
climate change are currently making us question the 
fundamentals of our collective organisations and ways 
of life. The urgency to transition away from fossil fuels 
combines with issues of fairness and social justice as we 
need to deal with the increasing scarcity and eventual 
exhaustion of resources, sovereignty issues, and various 
forms of pollution which expand the environmental 
impact beyond just global warming. While scientists have 
documented the ongoing environmental transformation 
for more than five decades, social awareness of their 
gravity has only begun to catch up recently which has led 
to collective tensions. Consequently, addressing these 
multifaceted challenges necessitates a collaborative 
approach that draws insights from all sciences, from 
experimental to social & political sciences. This integration 
and collaboration is crucial in harnessing the potential THE EUROPEAN UNIVERSITY ALLIANCE FOR 
GLOBAL HEALTH (EUGLOH)
EUGLOH is a strategic partnership between 
Université Paris-Saclay and eight other universities 
across Europe in the context of the European 
Commission’s European Universities Initiative.
Within the EUGLOH alliance, part of the main 
aims are in establishing a long-term strategic 
alliance focused on the pursuit of excellence in 
the field of global health across nine diverse and 
complementary partner institutions located in all 
four corners of Europe (North, South, East, West).
It also focuses on acting as a driving force in solving 
global health challenges ranging from public 
health, emerging diseases, climate change and 
environmental hazards to digital technologies and 
predictive, preventive, participative and personalised 
medicine.
—
26 
—of our enhanced abilities in for instance data, producing 
synthetic materials and understanding social dynamics.  
EXISTING ASSETS
Université Paris-Saclay holds a prime position to contribute 
significantly to this massive, existential challenge that 
currently engrossed global efforts:
•  The various scientific communities relevant to tackle 
these challenges benefit from a long-term experience 
of scientific collaboration both in research (with the 
example of the Strategic Research Initiative SpaceObs 
launched in 2017) and in education (with the example 
of the STEPE Master’s programme (Sciences de la Terre 
et des Planètes, Environnement - Earth & Planetary 
Sciences, Environment), created in 2013, to offer 
students comprehensive training covering all aspects 
of Environment Sciences, and the sciences of planets 
and the earth system.
•  Natural science labs in the domain benefits from a 
complete chain of methodological competencies, going 
from experimental settings to spatial observations and 
field work to process modelling.
•  Université Paris-Saclay is lucky to host several 
internationally-recognised laboratories in the domain 
and is one of the pillars of the Institut Pierre Simon 
Laplace, a key international hub for climate sciences.
•  Université Paris-Saclay is intricately woven into major 
national, European, and international networks, 
catering to data gathering, data sharing, and earth and 
space observation (for instance: observation networks 
NDACC, SIRTA, RENOIR, or research infrastructures 
ACTRIS, ICOS, CLIMERI, PARADISE, REGEF).
•  Lastly, a distinguishing feature of Université Paris-
Saclay is its implication in assessing the scientific 
knowledge underlying social debates at the highest 
level, as exemplified through the active and long-
standing involvement of its scientists in the IPCC and 
the IPBES.
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Enhancing the sustainability of socio-political 
systems . Université Paris-Saclay is host to many teams 
in the fields of economics, management, law, political 
science and social sciences who are directly contributing 
to tackling the various dimensions of this challenge. Axes of research and training include notably ways to enhance 
the sustainability and resilience of socio-political systems, 
starting at the individual scale and going up to the level 
of organisations. A common thread being pursued by 
Université Paris-Saclay’s social scientists is that of the 
mutation and evolution of socio-political systems so that 
they can evolve towards more sustainable equilibrium. 
Approaching such questions requires the combined insight 
from organisational sciences as well as public policy design, 
implementation and evaluation.
Specific areas of applications of these reflections include, 
for example, the collective management of landscape 
and agricultural / food value chains, in order to foster 
ecosystems preservation and diversity. The lens of political 
science is of course particularly relevant, as we need to 
develop new approaches for environmental evaluation, 
foster collective management practices and care for 
environmental commons. Another key area of application 
is that of political and management strategies to tackle the 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon capture 
to mitigate climate change, and to facilitate transitions in 
the energy mix.
An asset brought by the work done by Université Paris-
Saclay’s team in this respect is the emphasis placed on the 
geographical and territorial dimension of environmental 
issues and on the transition of socio-ecological systems. 
Legal expertise on topics related to the environment 
(sustainable development, biodiversity, climate change, 
energy transition, etc.), terrestrial or extra-atmospheric 
space, as well as natural common goods (air, water, 
protected environmental zones, vegetal and mineral 
resources, etc.) is also being developed. Finally, as these 
issues profoundly affect the social contract and the political 
equity in sharing the burden of the transformations, topics 
such as intra-generational and inter-generational justice 
and fairness are being explored, with the aim to understand 
how to properly deal with the global changes induced by 
the environmental and ecological transition.
Understanding the fundamental dynamics behind 
climate change . A necessary condition to face the current 
energy, climatic, environmental and ecological challenges 
is to advance our understanding of their complex and 
intertwined mechanisms. At Université Paris-Saclay, 
scientific teams are developing new methods, experimental 
approaches and simulations to measure and study 
greenhouse gas emissions, aerosols emissions and their 
precursors, to track the evolution of the composition of 
the atmosphere, of reactive species, and of the water cycle. 
Paleoclimatologists are providing a long-term perspective to 
decipher the dynamics of the climatic system and forecast 
its evolution, thus shedding light on past, present and future 
climates. Another key area of research deals with the study 
of continental and marine hydrosystems to characterise 
27 
—biogeochemical cycles at different scales 
(from local to global). Similarly, other projects 
aim to research the composition of soils and 
subsoils to understand the potential for 
exploitation while also considering how to 
mitigate the adverse consequences of using 
natural resources.
Improving climatic forecasts and better 
understanding the impact of climate and 
environmental change demands data at the 
right spatial and temporal scale, in order to 
understand the underlying dynamics and 
provide actors with relevant information. An 
open scientific path for improvement and 
exploration lies with the documentation of 
human activities and territories evolution 
at a very small scale, both spatially (a city, 
a catchment area, a definite agricultural 
area, a forest massif, etc.) and temporally 
(very short time-spans to refine weather 
forecasting, notably for extreme events, and 
20-30 years spans for climate projections). 
We also need to better understand the 
interplay between the various scales, 
and focus on the modelling of the major 
transitory periods of the past (e.g.  deglaciation period) to 
disentangle natural from anthropic influences and grasp 
better feedback loops in geoclimatic evolutions.
Deciphering the interactions between human 
activities and the environment . Our teams are also 
involved in providing more accurate descriptions of the 
interactions between all aspects of human activities 
(ecological, physical, biological, chemical and economic) and 
the environment. A focus point deals with the interactions 
between the biosphere, the atmosphere and the climate, 
in particular through agrosystems. This implies evaluating 
economic factors and the impact of human activities, 
mobilising a wide range of disciplines: environment sciences, 
soil sciences, biology, ecology, agronomy, ecotoxicology, 
physics of the atmosphere, (bio)climatology, economics, 
sociology, political science.Designing sustainable, efficient, low-carbon-footprint 
energy systems . Université Paris-Saclay can rely on 
consolidated expertise investigating the potential of (nano)
materials and systems for the development of technologies 
adapted to the sustainable production, storage, distribution 
and use of energy.  Energy production, storage and distribution 
are indeed major levers for the ecological transition, which 
requires taking into account the specific constraints of each 
sector in terms of security, reliability, dispatch, etc.
Université Paris-Saclay’s teams are strongly involved in the 
development of new technologies to produce a low-carbon-
footprint energy, notably through the characterisation 
and synthesis of nanomaterials, in link with photonics and 
electrochemistry, or through the development of materials 
and reactors adapted to produce green hydrogen. Indeed, 
the efficiency of such new techniques strongly depends on 
our capacity to develop new materials (and notably new 
catalytic materials) and new processes, to support the design 
of effective batteries, fuel cells, (photo)catalytic systems, 
(photo)electrochemical systems, which need to make limited 
use of critical resources and should be easily coupled to 
distribution networks. Université Paris-Saclay also boasts very 
strong expertise in the field of electrical engineering, which 
is of particular relevance to accelerate the energy transition 
and the development of innovative and sustainable energy 
production, smart grids, as well as storage and distribution 
systems. Activities span a continuum from the synthesis 
and characterisation of materials to the design and the 
development of new efficient systems, trying to find the right UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY’S RESEARCHERS 
LEADING THE WORKING GROUP I  
OF THE IPCC
After Valérie Masson-Delmotte in 2015, Robert 
Vautard has been designated Chair of the Working 
Group I of the IPCC, devoted to the physical science 
basis of climate change.
—Environnment science 80.50%
Agricultural
and biological sciences3.80%
25% 75% 50% 0%Earth and
planetary sciences3.60%
Engineering 3.40%
Psychology, humanities
social sciences
Computer science
Physics and astronomy
Mathematics
Chemistry2.80%
2.40%
1.50%
1.20%
1.20%
  Distribution of publications relevant for energy, climate, environment,  
sustainable development.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in energy, climate, 
environment, sustainable development, 80.5% pertain to environmental science. Note that the total 
might	be	superior	to	100%	because	one	publication	can	pertain	to	several	fields.
28 
—compromises between contradictory demands: improving 
the reliability of energy, miniaturising energy production 
systems, transitioning towards more sustainable and more 
ecological energy, etc.
Balancing needs for resources and environment 
preservation . The exploration and exploitation of 
biodiversity is a key domain of interest to develop new 
molecules with relevant economic, pharmaceutical and 
biotechnological properties in a context of scarce natural 
resources. The exploration of biomass and its residue is 
opening a promising path to offer renewable carbonate raw 
materials, as alternatives to petro-sourced chemistry for the 
production of molecules of high industrial interest. At the 
interface of biology, chemistry, engineering and industrial 
applications, the development of catalytic sciences is paving 
a promising path to valorise waste and develop an eco-
responsable circular economy. Université Paris-Saclay’s teams 
bring to this effort in-depth expertise and a capacity to design 
active systems in organocatalysis, metallic and organometallic 
catalysis, electro-, photoredox- and biocatalysis. Other major 
environmental questions being tackled by our teams revolve 
around the assimilation of azote and phosphorus by plants, as 
well as the detection, degradation, valorisation and treatment 
of pollutants and industrial byproducts.
Developing advanced data analysis methods 
and instrumentation to support investigation.  
The understanding of terrestrial and planetary climatic 
evolution is critically dependent on the production of 
complex, massive and heterogeneous data. This challenge 
is therefore heavily dependent on the recent evolution in 
data production, analysis, management and the interaction with mathematics and computer science is essential. The 
scientific issues are also pushing the boundaries of our data 
visualisation methods, and creating new bridges between 
the physical modelling in earth and environmental sciences, 
and recent Artificial Intelligence approaches. The need for 
more accurate, fine-grained and timely data is also creating 
a need for better instrumentation and data sensors, where 
Université Paris-Saclay can bring top-level experience in 
the development of active and passive instruments for 
atmospheric monitoring, geophysical soil analysis, or 
isotopic material dating.
3.  BIODIVERSITY, AGRICULTURE 
AND FOOD
The challenge of “Biodiversity, agriculture and food” 
articulates the environment and essential human needs and 
practices. This challenge requires a nuanced understanding 
that encompasses not only the quantity but also the quality of 
food, with a special focus on the interplay between nutrition 
and public health. The environmental risks associated with 
food production, such as soil degradation, water scarcity, 
and biodiversity loss, are critical considerations. Livestock 
farming also presents unique challenges, situated at the 
intersection of food security, health, climate change, and 
ethical considerations.
The global and systemic dimension of this challenge, 
which requires the capacity to articulate contextual and 
local considerations, with a sensitivity for world-wide 
interconnections, makes the extensive international 
network of Université Paris-Saclay particularly relevant: 
as an example, we are leveraging existing membership in 
the European Bioeconomy University network. Because 
it requires the capacity to analyse large amounts of data 
in a multi-scale perspective, this challenge is also strongly 
dependent on the development of new analytical tools and 
digital capabilities.
At stake is not merely the question of producing enough 
food of the desired quality but also of distributing it where it 
is needed most, as poor infrastructure, conflict, and climate 
change contribute among others to the imbalances in food 
availability. This imbalance frequently leads to dependency 
on food imports and compromises a nation’s sovereignty, 
leaving it vulnerable to external political and economic 
pressures. This challenge is particularly pressing for regions 
where rapid urbanisation, lack of resources, and natural 
adversities have often made local agricultural efforts 
insufficient. 
To transition to sustainable methods that can bolster 
Microscope experiment at the Food Process Engineering 
and Microbiology Laboratory (Univ. Paris-Saclay/INRAE/
AgroParisTech).
Carme Arisa/Université Paris-Saclay
29 
—biodiversity and maintain a richer and 
more resilient ecological tapestry for 
future generations, we are also deeply 
committed to preserving biodiversity and 
minimising environmental impact. Teams 
of researchers at Université Paris-Saclay 
not only focus on the science behind 
these elements but also emphasises the 
social, economic, policy and scientific 
aspects. This includes a dedicated effort 
in merging agroscience with ecology, 
understanding the complexities of food 
systems and ensuring public engagement 
in biodiversity policies. We, at Université 
Paris-Saclay, strive to illuminate the 
importance of each research area in 
preserving our future.
EXISTING ASSETS
Université Paris-Saclay’s unique stature 
in the field of agriculture science stands 
out for several defining reasons:
•  Our emphasis on agricultural 
sciences is evident through the 
depth and density of our capabilities 
in this domain, which is built upon 
partnership collaborations. 
•  Université Paris-Saclay also benefits from a network 
of original technological platforms as well as 
observational and experimental installations.
•  An important asset in this respect is the long experience 
of Université Paris-Saclay’s teams in approaching this 
challenge with a multidisciplinary lens, which is visible 
in the image on the right, representing the many 
different disciplinary fields contributing to the research 
output related to that challenge. Many research teams 
in Université Paris-Saclay from a range of academic 
disciplines frequently collaborate with each other. 
These collaborations can be regular or on an ad 
hoc basis, especially within specific interdisciplinary 
projects within the university.
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Investigating resource pressures and ecosystem 
balance . Teams at Université Paris-Saclay are dedicated 
to the study of natural resources, and their focus is on understanding the essential services provided by 
ecosystems, from research on water and water systems 
to international biodiversity policy. This research is vital 
to maintaining biodiversity and human well-being, and 
requires a holistic approach, involving environmental 
assessment, willingness-to-pay evaluation, and 
participatory and collective management of the commons. 
Our scientists also contribute to this category with its focus 
on understanding the complex dynamics of terrestrial 
and marine hydrosystems, characterising biogeochemical 
cycles, and studying soil and subsurface heterogeneity to 
improve management, exploitation, and environmental 
impact assessment.
Championing biodiversity in sustainable agriculture 
research . Université Paris-Saclay is working on major 
issues to understand and analyse the future of the 
biosphere and our societies, taking into account their 
environmental, social, economic and political dimensions. 
These issues contribute to food security and sovereignty 
and to global or ecosystemic health: the agro-ecological 
transition to promote sustainable agri-food systems 
from production (livestock, crops) to consumption; global 
changes and their impact on communities and ecosystems; 
the management and use of resources (soil and water); the 10% 30% 20% 0%Agricultural 
and biological sciences33.20%
Environmental sciences 32.60%
Earth and
planetary sciences16.20%
Biology, genetics
and molecular15.90%
Medicine
Engineering
Energy
Immunology 
and microbiology
Social sciences11.70%
9.60%
8.00%
7.80%
7.70%
Multidisciplinary 6.50%
Computer science 5.50%
Chemistry 5.30%
Mathematics 4.90%
Physics and astronomy 4.90%
  Distribution of publications relevant for biodiversity, agriculture and food.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in biodiversity, 
agriculture and food, 33% pertain to agricultural and biological sciences. Note that the total is superior 
to	100%	because	one	publication	can	pertain	to	several	fields.
30 
—preservation of biodiversity and ecosystem services and, 
more generally, of the environment; regional development 
strategies incorporating the environmental dimension; 
food, nutrition, human nutrition and food transitions; the 
processing of bio-resources and the recovery of bio-waste.
Research activities at Université Paris-Saclay focus on 
the relationship between food design and engineering, 
nutrition and human health. We aim to bring together 
disciplines such as food science, food process engineering, 
consumer science, microbiology, physiology, toxicology, 
nutrition and epidemiology. This programme develops 
research on humans and animal models to meet the major 
economic and societal challenges linked to food and health: 
sustainability of food production processes; innovative 
ways to act on the nutritional, sanitary and organoleptic 
qualities of food; better control of environmental impacts; 
development of short-distance circuits adapted to local areas; impact of food and the exposome on development 
and health; food safety of populations and prevention of 
risks of emergence of new health risks; support for food 
transitions; development of personalised food.
Fostering sustainable agriculture through 
biodiversity research . Biodiversity forms the backbone 
of sustainable agriculture, providing a wide range of 
ecosystem services and fostering the development of bio-
based industries. Research in this domain supports genetic 
variety and ecosystem resilience critical for crop and 
livestock health and adaptability. Teams at Université Paris-
Saclay articulate such concerns with expertise in the field 
of bioeconomy, which leverages these biological resources 
to drive sustainable agriculture practices. Established 
infrastructure at Université Paris-Saclay allows us to 
focus specifically on biodiversity research for agriculture 
and food production. This research is conducted in the 
context of global change and the growing urban influence 
on agricultural land, and focuses on the functioning of 
agro-ecosystems in interaction with their environment. 
It uses the levers of agroecology to mitigate and adapt to 
climate change, to show that agriculture plays a part in the 
bioeconomy of territories and to move towards a global 
approach to health.
Transforming food systems through research 
insights . The concept of a food system offers an integrated 
vision of the different processes required to feed a 
population: agricultural production, food transformation 
& processing, food quality, marketing, and consumption. 
It raises a number of issues that are key to the ecological 
transition: sustainable resource management, the design 
of a metropolitan metabolism that enables cycles to be 
looped, the re-territorialisation of agriculture and food 
supply, and spatial justice. At Université Paris-Saclay, our 
teams explore themes like the territorial governance 
of public action (revitalisation of the urban/rural link, 
intersectionality of public policies for local supply and 
access to food), transformations in land tenure systems 
(access to land, coexistence of agricultural models, the 
fight against artificialisation), the dynamics of ecological 
transition contributing to healthy and sustainable food, 
the recomposition of food landscapes with a view to 
reducing socio-spatial inequalities (access to local and 
quality products for vulnerable populations). Our teams 
connect specialists of agriculture, ecosystems, economics 
and political science to stimulate research on these issues 
from the point of view of the analysis of social systems and 
public policies. This sociology and political science research 
agenda will be able to build on the momentum created by 
the VIVAGRILAB living laboratory on the Plateau de Saclay, 
into which the work being carried out could be integrated. 
Another relevant expertise of Université Paris-Saclay focuses 
on sustainable and circular bioeconomy, which investigates 
the production of resources (biomass), their transformation C-BASC: A CENTRE FOR 
INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES  
ON BIODIVERSITY, AGROECOLOGY, 
SOCIETY AND CLIMATE
This interdisciplinary programme ambitions to 
contribute to the study and implementation of 
the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda on Sustainable 
Development and the European “Green Deal”.
It fosters research on the continuum of agricultural 
production, food processing, distribution and 
consumption to address key scientific and societal 
challenges.
Its foci include the transition to sustainable socio-
ecological systems, ecosystem management 
and the ecological transition, the dynamics and 
management of biodiversity, and the promotion of 
sustainability in peri-urban territories.

31 
—and uses, to promote circularity. We are thus fully equipped 
to investigate the multifaceted relations between design 
and conception of food, nutrition and human health, by 
combining disciplines such as: food science, food processing 
engineering, consumer sciences, microbiology, physiology, 
toxicology, nutrition, epidemiology, etc.
Driving legal, public engagement and policy 
initiatives for biodiversity conservation . One of the 
characteristics of biodiversity is that it deals with long-
term issues that require profound changes in lifestyles and 
related technologies and innovations. The question of the 
transformation of systems and their transition towards 
greater sustainability is therefore central to the work 
of Université Paris-Saclay, as well as the issue of socio-
ecosystems and the management of agricultural lands 
and their rural and urban environments, in a context of 
transitions. The study of organisations and their evolution 
through the evaluation and design of public policies is 
therefore a core area of attention at Université Paris-Saclay. 
Université Paris-Saclay also has recognised expertise in 
legal research devoted to natural common goods such 
as air, water, protected environmental areas, plant and 
mineral resources by promoting the comparison of their 
legal regimes with other legal definitions of “heritage” 
(cultural heritage, personal heritage, genetic heritage).
Another highlight is the strong support to participatory 
science approaches: indeed, the study of biodiversity is 
one of the fields which pioneered participatory science, 
and continues to drive their deployment with approaches 
such as data collection, co-design of knowledge and the 
implication of citizens, decision makers and scientists in 
research projects. This also means that the role of expertise 
for decision makers and public policy is particularly 
emphasised in this domain, with a strong participation 
of Université Paris-Saclay’s scientists in public expertise 
commissions (e.g. biotechnologies, phytosanitary risks, 
etc.),  interprofessional technical commission on zoo-
genetic resources, etc.
4.  DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 
AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
The digital transition has been taking momentum 
in the last decades, with a game-changing acceleration 
in the last few years. Central to this conversation are 
the advancements in artificial intelligence, not only 
revolutionising industries and societies but also ushering 
in a transformation of pedagogy. The maturity of AI has 
reached a point where its integration into various facets 
of life and work is not just beneficial but often essential. The challenge facing academia is twofold: firstly, there is 
the ‘core AI’ research and teaching aimed at developing 
new algorithms and addressing issues such as explainable, 
frugal, and ethical AI. Secondly, there is the need for 
educators in other disciplines to become adept at using AI 
as a tool that serves broader scientific and societal goals.
To meet the needs related notably to the development of 
AI, the university has established AI and data infrastructure 
for training and research through the Mesocentre at 
Université Paris-Saclay, thereby equipping itself to 
navigate the computational 
demands of this trans-
formative technology. 
This infrastructure also 
facilitates our efforts in 
ethical AI, allowing us to 
place training and research 
at the core of responsible AI 
development.
The research challenges 
concerning digital trans-
formation and AI connect 
to many other research 
areas, ranging from 
fundamental physics (for 
the development of future 
quantum computers) to 
social sciences (to design 
responsible and ethical AI models), life sciences (with the 
recent successes of bioinformatics) or engineering sciences 
(e. g. for the design of future materials). This interdisciplinary 
reach underscores the complexity and breadth of the 
technological landscape, indicating that any attempt to 
understand or guide it will require concerted efforts across 
multiple domains of human knowledge. 
Its development will not just shape but will be shaped 
by advancements in numerous other fields. Given this 
interconnectedness, a siloed approach to AI research and 
policy would be insufficient for capturing the full scope of 
its implications and opportunities. Instead, a wide-ranging, 
collaborative effort is needed to navigate the nuanced 
challenges and potentials that the digital age presents.
EXISTING ASSETS 
Université Paris-Saclay is remarkably positioned to address 
the cutting-edge areas of digital transformation and artificial 
intelligence:
•  Teams at Université Paris-Saclay are actively engaged 
in tackling the major challenges of the digital transition:Université Paris-Saclay’s 
academic staff enable 
this combination of 
legal and technological 
expertise, as our teams’ 
work underscores the 
necessity for appropriate 
legal frameworks to 
manage the ethical, 
privacy, and societal 
implications of digital 
transition
32 
—   -  Protection of data, calculations, and exchanges: this 
includes cybersecurity measures, ensuring system 
reliability, and safeguarding privacy.
   -  Programming and Architectures for Distributed Systems 
and Quantum Computing: researchers are exploring 
the frontier of quantum computing as well as how to 
develop robust and efficient distributed systems.
   -  Applications in Health and Biology: from digital health 
solutions to advancements in bioinformatics, this area 
focuses on how digital technologies can revolutionise 
healthcare and biological research.
   -  Communication Networks of the Future and the Creation 
of a ‘Sustainable’ Digital World: sustainability is an 
emerging concern, encompassing the energy-efficient 
design of future communication networks as well as the 
broader environmental impact of digital technologies.
   -  Human-Machine Interaction and the Seamless 
Integration of Digital Technology into Systems: this 
entails designing intuitive and adaptive interfaces and 
ensuring that technology augments rather than disrupts 
human activities.
   -  Robotic System Design and Digital Twins: research 
here focuses on creating more efficient and intelligent 
robotic systems, as well as developing digital twins that 
can simulate and predict real-world behaviour.
   -   Signal and Image Processing: this area deals with 
improving the techniques for analysing and interpreting 
signals and images, critical in sectors ranging from 
healthcare to entertainment.
   -  Issues of Rights, Use, Health, and Equity in Tomorrow’s 
Digital Society: beyond the technological aspects, 
researchers are also delving into the ethical, legal, and 
social implications of digital transformation, seeking  
to ensure it is carried out in a way that is equitable  
and just.
•  Paris-Saclay houses a comprehensive ecosystem of 
infrastructures:
   -  Research infrastructures like DATAIA, an 
interdisciplinary institute at Saclay focused on 
advancing data sciences and artificial intelligence 
across various sectors like healthcare, transport 
and energy, and Maison de la simulation , a research 
centre dedicated to fostering computational 
simulations in multiple scientific disciplines ranging 
from climate models to biological systems.
   -   Paris Saclay is involved in new training schemes as 
those developed in the simulation lab at the Faculty 
of Medicine (LabForSims). Students and professionals 
can acquire new skills thanks to various simulatory 
procedures, and a continuous training of the teachers 
is developed.
   -  We are engaging constantly with independent service 
entities geared towards societal engagement and 
innovation, like VEDECOM, IRT SystemX, and SATT  
Paris-Saclay.   -  Our expansive multidisciplinary approach in the fields 
of digital transformation and artificial intelligence 
is effectively showcased in our publication records. 
The figure below details our areas of research pivotal 
for understanding the full scope of digital and AI 
advancements.
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Tackling social and ethical issues at the same pace as 
technological advances . The rapid pace of scientific and 
technological development in the digital sector in general, 
and in AI in particular, is raising a series of challenges to 
social, political and legal systems, which require the joint 
efforts of various disciplines as well as non-academic 
stakeholders. Such challenges revolve around three main 
topics. Firstly, ethical issues surrounding the development of 
AI, from concerns for biases and discrimination, to questions 
of explainability and safety are immense and require the 
combined expertise of AI specialists, legal scholars, political 
scientists and sociologists. Secondly, digital technologies 
raise the risk of growing inequalities both in terms of access 
and in terms of digital literacy, which need to be tackled now. 
Thirdly, new issues of privacy and protection of individuals 
rights are arising with the development of new applications 
and require fast regulation at the same time as we maintain 
space for experimentation and innovation. Université Paris-
Saclay’s academic staff enable this combination of legal and 
technological expertise, as our teams’ work underscores the 
necessity for appropriate legal frameworks to manage the 
ethical, privacy, and societal implications of digital transition. 
Developing as well as framing AI and data sciences . 
Université Paris-Saclay comprises multiple departments 
contributing to this innovative domain, known worldwide 
for their pioneering research in diverse areas such as 
machine learning and artificial intelligence, data science, 
big data management, and natural language processing. 
With the support of the DATAIA institute, Université Paris-
Saclay aims to improve the state of the art in data science, 
preparing the emergence of innovative artificial intelligence 
services (from algorithms to proofs of concepts), and to join 
the human sciences and the digital revolution. This institute 
provides the links to foster the dialogue between the 
academic and the industrial communities and consolidate 
the international visibility and expertise of the Paris-Saclay 
AI community by hosting major scientific personalities. 
DATAIA brings together experts of the highest international 
standards in various disciplines: mathematics, computer 
science, physics, life sciences, economics and management, 
humanities and social sciences. This disciplinary breadth is 
an unparalleled opportunity in France, covering the entire 
spectrum of data science and artificial intelligence as well 
as societal issues.
33 
—Exploring the potential of quantum computing . The 
rise of quantum computing and communication, and the 
establishment of the qubit as a fundamental concept, offers 
new foundations for computer science as a science, as well as 
new research opportunities. Conversely, computer science 
plays an essential role in research into the quantum world. 
Université Paris-Saclay has a Quantum Centre to develop 
research on post-quantum cryptography, the design 
and verification of quantum programmes, and quantum 
simulation. The university itself is at the forefront of 
quantum communication technology, researching compact 
photon sources, stationary quantum states, and non-
thermal phases of matter. These cutting-edge explorations 
seek to challenge existing scientific paradigms and instigate 
the genesis of novel quantum information concepts. By 
concentrating on quantum technology, we pave the way 
for breakthroughs in secure communication and ultra-high-
speed computation. In this domain, fundamental research 
activities at the highest international level are matched by 
an important innovation and entrepreneurship effort - as 
represented in the case of Alain Aspect, Nobel Prize laureate 
in Physics and co-founder of the Quandela startup.
Improving health and well-being via digital 
advances . Université Paris-Saclay channels the digital 
transformation paradigm through the prism of health 
from clinical to public health. By advocating innovative 
research in large-scale health data analysis fused with computational sciences, they 
help develop artificial intelligence 
applications from theory to a safe 
and usable digital format to help 
healthcare systems. Our researchers 
also highlight the transformative 
power of AI in scientific research. 
By exploring the utilisation of 
machine learning, neural networks, 
and AI, this school emphasises the 
potential for AI to revolutionise 
every stage of the research process. 
From the inception of a hypothesis 
to its translation into real-world 
application, the work being done at 
Université Paris-Saclay showcases 
how AI can expedite and enhance 
public health research. On the side 
of medicine, imaging and biosensing 
for diagnosis and disease detection 
(particularly non-invasive) are a 
major research challenge. A great 
deal of translational research 
is associated with this area, 
particularly in terms of diagnostic 
tools, modulation of the microbiota 
and intervention coupled with 
clinical trials. The challenge is to 
make optimal use of the new digital technologies in a 
context of personalised medicine. Strong collaboration 
with mathematical and AI organisations is crucial. 
THE “AUGMENTED OPERATING ROOM”: 
DIGITAL ADVANCES FOR SURGERY
Launched in January 2020, the Bloc Opératoire 
augmenté  group accelerates the development of 
digital technologies, whether in development or 
already existing, which make it possible to increase 
the senses (sight, speech and touch) of the various 
staff in the operating room. These devices that help 
improve practices are tested in a space that includes 
a “mock operating room”.
Computer science 54.00%
Engineering 30.80%
20% 40% 0%Mathematics 19.10%
Physics and astronomy 13.80%
Biochemistry, genetics
and molecular biologyMedicine
Earth and 
planetary sciences
Material sciences
Social sciences13.80%
7.70%
5.20%
4.90%
4.60%
Decision sciences 4.50%
  Distribution of publications relevant for digital transformation and artificial intelligence.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in digital transformation 
and	artificial	Iintelligence,	54%	pertain	to	computer	science.	Note	that	the	total	is	superior	to	100%	
because	one	publication	can	pertain	to	several	fields.
Hôpital Paul Brousse AP-HP
34 
—Improving interfaces: human-machine interaction .
Université Paris-Saclay regroups over a hundred 
researchers in the field of Human-Computer Interaction, 
which makes it a distinguished leader in this domain. 
Our research aims at building new adaptive interfaces 
using AI algorithms, developing the future of multimodal 
interactions, conversational systems and interactive 
robotics (from autonomous vehicles to exoskeletons 
and medical devices) and inventing the next generation 
of data visualisation. Our researchers lead the Equipex+ 
Continuum project, that aims aims to build a unique 
collaborative research infrastructure composed of 
30 platforms located all over France, to develop new 
models for visualisation, interaction, perception, human 
cognition, immersion, and collaboration, in the context of 
virtual and augmented reality. All of our research is driven 
by the importance of human-centred computing, as we 
aim to transcend the limitations of current modalities and 
devise interfaces that are natural extensions of human 
intent. New uses of digital systems and AI push the limits 
of existing technology and force us to reconsider our 
fundamental assumptions about interaction design, to 
invent data-centric interactive systems and to understand 
how digital devices can help people in their everyday life. 
To address this challenge, our labs have long developed 
interdisciplinary research that combines human cognition 
and ergonomics with computer science and robotics. 5. TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY
Interculturality and an openness to the world are 
cornerstones of a healthy democracy and these values 
help facilitate mutual understanding and respect among 
individuals and nations. They require transport and 
mobility as necessary conditions for interactions and 
the exchange of ideas at all scales: not just international 
but also intrinsically local, whether it is commuting 
or increasing accessibility in rural areas. Therefore, it 
becomes crucial for us to address transport solutions at 
both local and international levels, while also considering 
their environmental impact. In this way, we can responsibly 
develop sustainable travel solutions that allow continued 
connectivity without compromising future generations. 
Scientific barriers are emerging in the face of these new 
challenges, and recent technological developments are 
questioning fundamental knowledge about how we 
mitigate the environmental impact of transport, society 
organisation and how we can ensure fair access to 
transport for all members of society, for example. 
In this context, Université Paris-Saclay serves as an 
important hub which fosters support skills for the 
dynamic scientific communities addressing these research 
fields. Here, we are continuously innovating, creating new 
tools and methodologies to change the way in which we 
move as a society. Our transport research spans smart 
cities, autonomous vehicles, and logistics, emphasising 
the automation of tasks, machine-human interaction, and 
robotics. We are incorporating major shifts in electrical 
infrastructure. In addition, in recognising that mobility 
needs to be facilitated at all scales we therefore also 
prioritise individual ergonomics and human movement. 
Here, we are dedicated to creating mobility solutions for 
those with disabilities, addressing occupational injuries, 
and enhancing Human-Computer Interaction.
EXISTING ASSETS
In the world of transport, civil engineering and mobility, 
Université Paris-Saclay’s position and contribution to 
these challenges are being thoroughly engaged with for 
several reasons:
•  We cultivate strong ties with our partners around 
specific concerns like transport and civil engineering. 
These connections delve into everything from 
societal considerations down to individual-level 
analyses, emphasising a holistic view of mobility 
structures in society. 
•  Our commitment to health research dynamics and 
our role in research-driven training accentuates our 
Research on imbalanced plasma at the EM2C 
Laboratory (CentraleSupélec/CNRS).
CentraleSupélec
35 
—mission to embed health and well-being considerations 
in transport and mobility solutions. 
•  Our publications breakdown in the realm of transport 
and mobility paint a vivid picture of our depth and 
breadth of expertise. The diagram above showcases 
our expansive reach in research fields focusing on 
these topics. 
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Elevating the efficiency through Smart Grids for 
transportation . The central position of the electricity 
vector and the massive electrification of systems are leading 
to major changes in electrical infrastructure and usage. 
Electricity networks such as smart grids or µ-grids, whether 
connected or isolated/embedded, with or without storage, 
are responsible for transporting and distributing electrical 
energy, incorporating extensive instrumentation. The aim of 
Université Paris-Saclay is to push infrastructures as close to 
their physical limits while considering the diversity of energy 
sources, including renewable and intermittent sources, as well as the various uncertainties 
associated with consumer behaviour 
and global diversity.
One of our focuses at Université 
Paris-Saclay is on new paradigms 
that are therefore needed for 
optimal management of flows 
and storage of electrical energy in 
these networks. Energy conversion 
chains, made up of power electronic 
and electromechanical converters, 
are subject to severe integration 
constraints in harsh environments. 
This is particularly true in the field of 
mobility, with the increase in on-board 
electrical power and voltages. As a 
result, we are focused on improving 
the current infrastructure by calling 
into question the current structures, 
topologies and control of power 
converters, which must integrate 
physical and technological constraints 
such as the introduction of wide-gap 
electronic components, the physical 
phenomena associated with voltage 
rise and the use of electromagnetic 
or functional materials under high 
mechanical and thermal stress.
Assessing the sectoral influence 
on smart transport evolution . In 
the sphere of smart and autonomous transport systems, 
through our digital science research teams, Université 
UNDERSTANDING AND IMPROVING 
URBAN MOBILITY
Smart cities must allow an urban or peri-urban 
territory to adapt dynamically to the human and 
goods mobility and transport needs of citizens 
as well as public and economic actors at different 
time scales. This, without depriving elected 
representatives of their governance capacity, and 
by anticipating the evolution of the organisation 
of the territory and its activities. In this context, 
Université Paris-Saclay supports interdisciplinary 
research programmes with the objectives of:
- Understanding urban mobility
-  Enabling agile and coordinated governance of 
mobility means and infrastructures
-  Allowing mid and long-term dimensioning, 
deployment and adaptation of equipment
—20% 30% 10% 40% 50% 0%Engineering 47.10%
Computer science 35.90%
Mathematics 21.20%
Physics and astronomy 13.50%
Social sciencesEnergy
Environmental sciences
Materials sciences
Earth and
planetary sciences13.40%
11.70%
10.10%
8.20%
7.60%
Decision sciences 6.00%
Chemistry 5.20%
Business, management
and accounting4.80%
  Distribution of publications relevant for transportation and mobility.
The graph is read as follows: among the publication of Université Paris-Saclay in transportation and 
mobility,	47.1%	pertain	to	engineering.	Note	that	the	total	is	superior	to	100%	because	one	publication	
can	pertain	to	several	fields.
36 
—Paris-Saclay has been making significant strides. In this 
area our research focuses primarily on three application 
areas: smart cities, autonomous vehicles, and logistics. 
Automation in the broadest sense includes both the field of 
automation of tasks by machines operating without human 
intervention, as well as that of automated systems, which 
today take a variety of forms: autonomous, collaborative/
communicating, assistance systems, interacting with 
humans or with other living or artificial systems. This capacity 
for autonomy in terms of energy, decision-making and 
mobility is also a major objective of robotic systems, which 
closely links the two fields of automation and robotics. Our 
researchers approach fundamental questions regarding 
the use of networks for 
inter-vehicle communication 
and cybersecurity in all 
its infrastructures. This 
involves multi-disciplinary 
research combining applied 
mathematics, artificial 
intelligence, digital sciences, 
law, ethics, economics, 
policy, computer science, 
and electronics. 
Enhancing experiences: 
ergonomy engineering 
in human movement .  A 
focus on smart transport 
at a societal scale cannot 
lead us to lose focus on 
exploring the individual 
ergonomics and engineering, 
as the effectiveness of broad 
mobility solutions hinges 
upon how well the physical and cognitive needs of individuals 
are catered for. Therefore, understanding the individual 
needs of citizens and retaining a focus on individualism 
within movement is a key aspect of the research conducted 
at Université Paris-Saclay.
Université Paris-Saclay has been leading the way with 
innovative research in the field of mobility assistance 
and accessibility. Our multidisciplinary projects focus 
on overcoming transport and mobility challenges faced 
by individuals with disabilities. These projects represent 
the intersection of fundamental and applied sciences, 
creating practical solutions that enhance the quality 
of life for individuals with physical impairments. For 
instance in France, nine out of ten occupational injuries 
are musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). Certain risk factors, 
such as repeated, forceful movements associated with 
inappropriate postures, are found in many occupational 
activities. In order to detect and prevent these MSDs, as 
part of a physical ergonomics approach, we are developing 
a method combining the continuous measurement of joint angles with the automation of a risk score calculation, 
applied in several professional fields.
Additionally, research into Human-Computer Interaction 
is exploring user-centred methods for designing and 
evaluating interactive applications based on movement: for 
example, virtual and tangible training in social and motor 
skills for children with Autistic Spectrum Disorders, and 
motivational applications for patients suffering from low 
back pain or diabetes. Robotic assistance is also a promising 
avenue for motor rehabilitation and/or MSD prevention. The 
benefits of robotics, which include flexibility, repeatability, 
and precision, form the foundation of their usage. One line 
of research involves analysing, modelling and optimising 
interactions between a human and an upper limb robotic 
exoskeleton. The aim of this work is to meet the challenges 
of well-being and lifelong adaptation for all (able-bodied 
and/or disabled).
6. AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
Continuously striving to expand the frontiers of 
human exploration, aeronautics and space research have 
played a central role in driving technological progress. Over 
the years, solutions to previous space-related challenges 
have yielded numerous spin-off technologies that have now 
become integral parts of our everyday lives. However, as we 
venture further into space, new complex problems emerge 
that demand innovative solutions, encompassing a wide 
range of aspects. Technological hurdles, such as improving 
materials, propulsion systems and communication 
networks for long-duration missions are ongoing research 
areas. Human space exploration also poses unique 
questions, related to the health effects of space travel, 
resource utilisation, and logistical complexities associated 
with extended missions. Furthermore, space debris 
management remains a pressing concern, as the number 
of satellites and debris in orbit increases, endangering 
operational spacecraft and hindering future missions. 
Closer to home, aeronautical research also faces its own 
unique set of challenges in advancing aviation capabilities. 
Enhancing aerodynamics and fuel efficiency, reducing noise 
pollution, ensuring safety and reliability, and integrating 
autonomous systems are ongoing priorities.
Addressing these challenges requires interdisciplinary 
collaboration, cutting-edge technologies, and a commitment 
to improving the efficiency, safety, and sustainability of 
air transportation. Beyond that, it is also crucial to find a 
responsible approach to these issues, taking into account 
the environmental, ethical, and legal aspects. Balancing the 
pursuit of scientific discovery and technological advancement The aim of Université 
Paris-Saclay is to push 
infrastructures as close 
to their physical limits 
while considering the 
diversity of energy 
sources, including 
renewable and 
intermittent sources, 
as well as the various 
uncertainties associated 
with consumer behaviour 
and global diversity
37 
—with considerations of sustainability, responsible use of 
resources, and international cooperation will be critical to 
the future of aeronautics and space exploration.
With a diverse range of expertise and multidisciplinary 
collaboration at its core, Université Paris-Saclay is at 
the forefront of tackling the challenges presented by 
aeronautics and space exploration. Leveraging its 
rich tradition of space research, advanced capabilities 
in astronomy, astrophysics, and fluid mechanics, as 
well as a strong emphasis on digital science and legal 
considerations, the university is poised to drive scientific 
advancements, develop cutting-edge instruments, 
address issues of life’s origins, and navigate the evolving 
legal landscape of outer space exploration.
EXISTING ASSETS 
Université Paris-Saclay has accumulated a great deal to 
address these challenges:
•  Université Paris-Saclay presents a long space research 
tradition, encompassing domains from astronomy, and 
earth & planetary observation to theoretical physics. 
•  The strong multidisciplinarity and integration between 
disciplines of excellence at Université Paris-Saclay, 
such as astrophysics, particle physics and nuclear 
physics, enables us to carry out original, leading-edge 
space research, for example using multi-messenger 
and multi-wavelength approaches. 
•  Université Paris-Saclay’s important 
participation in international collaborative 
projects and networks both displays its 
recognition and maximises the impact of 
its research.
•  The creation of relevant resources allows 
the Université Paris-Saclay to efficiently 
address the rapid evolution of the sector, 
with its ever-increasing volume of data and 
complexity of systems .
•  The creation of the Université Paris-
Saclay Space Science Centre illustrates 
that effort and promotes multidisciplinary 
actions to meet new challenges linked to 
space research evolution, focusing on 
future instrumentation, data analysis, and 
developments related to the New Space.•  Finally, in order to tackle issues going beyond 
the scope of the sole technological challenges of 
space research, Université Paris-Saclay promotes 
broader interdisciplinary approaches and fosters 
collaborations, not only between physicists and 
engineers, but also with chemists, biologists, as well as 
specialists of law, economics and geopolitics.
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Extending our understanding of astroparticles, 
nuclear astrophysics and cosmology . At the basis of 
Université Paris-Saclay’s contribution to spatial exploration 
lie outstanding capacities in astronomy and astrophysics. 
Researchers from Université Paris-Saclay are collaborating 
with international colleagues to explore some of the most 
violent events in the cosmos and to identify the origins of 
cosmic rays. Additionally, they are delving into the birth 
and evolution of the universe, investigating the mystery of 
dark matter and dark energy, and aiming to comprehend 
nucleosynthesis. Research teams at Université Paris-Saclay 
have for instance played an important role in the discovery of 
gravitational waves through the development of the VIRGO 
interferometer and are engaged in the development of the 
new generation of instruments, following the roadmap of 
the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructure. 
The scientific axes pursued at Université Paris-Saclay thus 
cover all the major open issues in today’s fundamental 
research in astronomy, astrophysics and cosmology; 
understanding the process which led to the formation 
Physics and astronomy 65.10%
Earth and
planetary sciences43.60%
20% 60% 40% 0%Engineering 24.20%
Computer science 12.40%
Mathematics
Materials science
Multidisciplinary11.50%
9.90%
7.10%
  Distribution of publications relevant for aeronautics and space.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in aeronautics and 
space, 65.1% pertain to physics and astronomy. Note that the total is superior to 100% because one 
publication	can	pertain	to	several	fields.
38 
—and evolution of the solar system, studying the origins 
and evolution of stars, or galaxy formation, understanding 
extreme conditions in the Universe.
Understanding the origin of life and developing 
exobiology . The question of the origins of life and diversity 
of life forms generates intense social interest and is amongst 
those explored at Université Paris-Saclay. Approaches vary 
from the understanding of the conditions of habitability of 
a planetary environment, and the conditions of emergence 
of life, by studying the planets of the solar system as well 
as exoplanets. Teams at Université Paris-Saclay are at the 
forefront of tackling this challenge with multidisciplinary 
contributions from our specialist laboratories in both 
chemistry and planetary geomorphology approaches.
Making the most of fluid mechanics for aeronautical 
engineering . Going from existential concerns to domains 
with more immediate industrial applications, the community 
of physicists and engineers of Université Paris-Saclay counts 
with strong expertise in the domain of fluid mechanics, with 
the capacity to characterise the deformation and evolution 
of matters under its forms solid, liquid, gas or plasma. Our 
capacities at modelling, experimenting and simulating are 
directly relevant for aeronautics and spatial explorations. 
They are being reinforced by recent advances in conception 
and design methods (such as 3D printing), which enable 
them to quickly obtain materials with new mechanical 
properties and functions. Most of our work is carried out in 
partnership with industry, in laboratory networks, in national 
or European projects or in international cooperation. Strong 
links have been forged with industrial partners around 
targeted issues such as energy, transport or civil engineering. 
These industrial partnerships play a key role in the dynamics 
of research and in training through research.
Creating the next generation of instruments and 
observational methods . Research in astronomy and space 
has always been deeply dependent on the advancement of 
observational devices and methods. The capacity of our teams to articulate instrumentation, observation, theory, 
modelling, simulation and lab experiments is a key asset 
at Université Paris-Saclay. Our involvement in large spatial 
projects feeds directly into the structuration of science 
and technological development. Our contribution in the 
development of large international instruments and 
platforms also relies on our large community of experimental 
physicists able to design new instruments. For example, 
at the interface of physics and engineering, our expertise 
in the field of (nano)photonics covers the whole chain for 
instrumentation - including signal emission, propagation, 
detection, treatment and conversion,- in wavelengths 
going from X-rays to microwaves. High resolution sensors 
are being developed for astrophysics, as well as for other 
fields from geosciences to biology. Our capabilities in the 
domain of spectroscopy are of specific relevance here, with 
the capacity to develop ad-hoc tools for studying chemical 
reactions in the atmospheres of planets and their satellites.
Developing digital tools and approaches . Aeronautics 
and space is another major challenge where Université 
Paris-Saclay’s strengths in digital science and mathematical 
modelling supports scientific advances. ad hoc data centres 
have been developed for specific needs, such as in-flight 
operations. As an example, we are particularly interested 
in the development of advanced methods for storage and 
secure treatment for the massive data generated by spatial 
exploration, as well as in the verification of softwares for 
in-vehicle systems.
Next to observations, digital simulations are taking a 
growing importance with the development of massively EXOTRAIL SPACE - STARTUP CREATED 
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY 
AND PARTNERS
Exotrail is an end-to-end space mobility operator. 
Their mission is to enable small satellites to move 
in space, optimise their deployment, increase their 
service performance, and reduce space pollution.
A combination of factors and expertise resulted in 
the creation of the startup in 2017. The thrusters 
that Exotrail develops for small satellites enable 
the satellites to optimise their orbits, increase their 
performance, avoid collisions and return to the 
atmosphere at the end of their life so as not to pollute 
space. Until quite recently, only large satellites 
incorporated thrusters using Hall-effect technology. 
Now, it is also possible for small satellites thanks to 
the miniature thrusters created by Exotrail.
—
Biophotonics	and	time-resolved	fluorescence	at	the	Biology	
and Applied Pharmacology Laboratory  (Univ. Paris-Saclay/ENS 
Paris-Saclay/CNRS).
Carme Arisa/Université Paris-Saclay
39 
—parallel computers: the volume of data generated through 
simulation is now similar to that of observation data, and 
is proving decisive to advance understanding in domains 
as varied as galaxy evolution, star formation, magnetic, 
protoplanetary disks, star winds, star-planet interactions, 
etc. Digital simulation is equally important for aeronautics 
development, as digital simulation replaces wind-tunnel 
testing for plane design.
Finally, digital tools are playing a central role in the 
development of 4.0 aeronautics, in particular in further 
automation processes used for flight technology, from 
security processes to the development of advanced avionics 
and “fly-by-wire” flight control systems.
Legal approaches to keep pace with spatial 
exploration . As our capacity to understand, reach and 
exploit outer space grows, so do the accompanying legal 
and regulatory challenges. Teams of legal and geopolitical 
experts at Université Paris-Saclay are actively engaged 
in expanding our regulatory capacity to include both 
terrestrial and extraterrestrial space by collaborating with 
international organisations and examining common natural 
assets in the context of legal systems.
7. INDUSTRIAL RENEWAL
Redeveloping industrial capacities 
in France and Europe has been a strategic 
orientation for the last decades, backed by 
significant and growing public investment. 
The funding devoted to higher education, 
research and innovation has in a large part 
been given on the premise that this sector 
is one of the long-term engines behind 
a successful industrial policy in France. 
Université Paris-Saclay recognises its role 
in the social contract between universities 
and society that financially supports 
them. Our university understands that 
some major expected outcomes include 
maintaining sovereignty, contributing 
to a strong job market and promoting a 
beneficial trade balance. Beyond, what is 
at stake is our collective capacity to design 
resilience, durable productive systems 
which are compatible with considerations of 
environmental and social sustainability.
As such, the challenge of reindustrialisation 
is different in nature from the other six 
challenges which we have described so far. Indeed, the six other challenges contribute directly, each in its 
sector, to the challenge of reindustrialisation. From material 
sciences to synthetic biology, from digital transformation 
to sustainable agrifood, from pharmaceutics to design & 
production systems, the previous sections have highlighted 
how the research teams and training programmes at 
Université Paris-Saclay contribute to the major sectoral 
challenges of reindustrialisation. We therefore do not focus 
here on the specific application sectors, but on the way 
in which Université Paris-Saclay helps to remove practical 
obstacles and create the conditions for 21st century 
industry in general, with a focus on material and immaterial 
design and production systems.
The capacity to mass-produce technological devices, as 
well as therapeutic approaches, enables a large diffusion of 
technological advances. However, it is also clearly inducing 
adverse effects on health, resource depletion, economic 
factors, or the environment. A major challenge of this 
new phase of industrialisation is to ensure that it actively 
counteracts such adverse effects and develops solutions 
which integrate the point of view of users at large and 
prevent lock-in or path-dependency effects. This is where 
the approach of “individualisation” in engineering brings 
the promise of technological uses which are better adapted 
to individual uses and contexts, and where the teams at 
Université Paris-Saclay are researching the contextualisation 
of solutions, the development of knowledge on human 
factors and their integration in cyberphysical systems, with 
Computer science 58.90%
Engineering 52.30%
20% 40% 0%Energy 43.00%
Mathematics 16.00%
Physics and astronomy
Materials science
Decision sciences
Business, management
and accountingMedicine12.10%
12.10%
10.00%
6.00%
4.90%
  Distribution of publications relevant for industrial renewal.
The graph is read as follows: among the publications of Université Paris-Saclay in industrial renewal, 
58% pertain to computer science. Note that the total is superior to 100% because one publication can 
pertain	to	several	fields.
40 
—a specific focus on the interactions of material and industrial 
processes with life.
Studies on the conditions of reindustrialisation 2 point 
towards two types of barriers which are relevant for 
universities: the need to innovate, which requires strong 
research capacities in close interaction with industrial 
actors, echoing Université Paris-Saclay’s renewed emphasis 
on innovation & technology transfer; and the need to train 
future generations and equip them with the relevant skills, 
in link with Université Paris-Saclay’s extensive capabilities in 
terms of engineering education.
ACTIVE FOCUS AREAS RELATED TO THIS CHALLENGE  
AT UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY.
Researching industrial processes . Industrial and 
manufacturing engineering 
is a focus at Université Paris-
Saclay, where our research 
teams and graduates 
can be essential to the 
current national effort of 
reindustrialisation. The 
study of productive systems 
enables us to analyse, 
model, simulate and design 
them all along their life 
cycle to optimise resources, 
ergonomics, and results. A 
strong emphasis is naturally 
placed on all developments 
which enable to accelerate 
the switch to a new industrial paradigm: sustainable, 
decarbonated, resilient and circular. This overall approach 
is being deployed at four different scales: at the level of 
industrial sectors and value chains; at the level of production 
units; at the level of technological and manufacturing 
processes; at the level of 4.0 enabling technologies.
Multi-scale and multitechnology integration emerged 
industrially with approaches such as the “beyond 
complementary metal oxide semiconductor” technologies in 
microelectronics, exploring the hybridisation of technologies 
to optimise processes and tackle the challenge of processor 
miniaturisation. A similar approach is now supporting 
advances in systems integrating mechanical, optical and 
electronic components. This same concept of “systems” is 
being applied to other domains as well, paving the way for 
industrial advances in areas as diverse as: the hybridisation 
of materials and technologies; the development of new 
components, architectures and systems; the progress in 
manufacturing processes (additive fabrication, 4.0 factory, 
etc.). The autonomisation of systems makes them more difficult to design and forces interdisciplinary questioning, 
but is paving the way for improved reproducibility, security, 
resource optimisation, and dynamic self-adaptation. 
Université Paris-Saclay is particularly interested in exploring 
the issue of interactions in complex environments in order 
to design robust, reliable, interactive, autonomous systems 
which can function in open or controlled environments.
Embracing the potential of digital approaches for 
reindustrialisation . Home to a very strong community 
in mathematics, computer science and engineering, 
Université Paris-Saclay is well placed to contribute to the 
digital transformation of industry. In less than two decades, 
digital advances completely reshaped industry by opening 
up the possibility of developing digital models for complex 
phenomena and to test them, thus facilitating applications. 
Digital models can now be coupled with the environment in 
an interactive fashion, accelerating industrial developments 
and production methods. The massive deployment of 
connected objects (Internet of things) and the progress of 
cyberphysical systems are key enablers for new industrial 
processes, but suppose high-quality Cloud and IoT 
architecture, and communication networks, as well as the 
capacity to stem processing, management and security of 
the generated data. The promises of such deployment and 
advances in digital approaches include faster, cleaner, less-
resource intensive design and production processes.
Supporting the continuum between research, 
technological research and innovation and industry . 
In a context of intense international competition and 
geopolitical tensions with the resulting pressure on global 
supply chains and the growing importance of strategic 
autonomy and sovereignty in public discourse, many of 
the more technologically advanced countries are devoting 
sizable public funding to push for reindustrialisation. 
2 https://www.economie.gouv.fr/files/files/directions_services/igpde-
seminaires-conferences/Infographie%20Renouveau%20industriel.
pdf?v=1688126016C2N - AN EXCEPTIONAL TECHNOLOGICAL 
PLATFORM
The C2N technological facility is one of the 
technological platforms at Université Paris-Saclay 
that supports research and innovation related to 
the cross-cutting challenge of Industrial Renewal.
Hosted in a clean room of 2,900 sqm, the three 
platforms, representing more than 50M€ of 
investment in state-of-the-art equipment, are 
dedicated to micro and nanofabrication processes, 
to the growth, epitaxy and characterisation 
of materials. Some areas are also devoted to 
education and continuous training in micro-
nanotechnologies, and 250 sqm are dedicated to 
start-up or SME activities.
—Industrial and 
manufacturing 
engineering is a focus at 
Université Paris-Saclay, 
where our research 
teams and graduates 
can be essential to the 
current national effort 
of reindustrialisation
41 
—France too strives to ensure a dynamic continuum between 
fundamental research, technological research, innovation 
and industry. We have already highlighted above (see cross-
section) the ambitious policy pursued by Université Paris-
Saclay in terms of innovation. This policy can build upon the 
key assets testifying to the presence of outstanding research 
teams in fundamental academic fields (mathematics, 
physics, chemistry, biology, computer science, etc.) and 
the long-standing culture of collaboration with industry 
embodied by our engineering schools. This puts us in a 
position to be direct contributors to all the major industrial 
fields which depend on engineering advances: biochemical 
engineering, biomedical engineering, optical engineering, 
electrical engineering, material sciences, robotics and 
automatics, networks and communications. 
Supporting public policy to create a propitious 
environment . Reindustrialisation is also a matter of 
creating the right conditions at the organisational, legal 
and job market levels. This requires the combined insights 
from economics, law, sociology, management, political 
sciences and organisational sciences, to create favourable 
conditions. At the collective level, this raises the issue of 
the emergence of new institutional and organisational 
settings of economic activities and production. Social 
sciences can support the reflection on the best governance 
practice, policy design and regulations and incentives, and 
feed public policy through expertise, advice and impact evaluation. The legal expertise of Université Paris-Saclay’s 
teams will also be directly relevant to designing the 
regulations adapted to new production modes and working 
arrangements, leveraging specific expertise on the legal 
implications of technical developments. Lastly, the various 
studies carried out on the evolution of work, labour markets 
and competencies are directly relevant for the proper 
implementation of a reindustrialisation policy. Such a policy 
needs to be linked to the deep trends affecting the relation 
of new generations to the workplace (diversification of the 
forms of job contracts, role of platform economies, impact 
of new work organisation and management approaches, 
articulation between individual tasks and the contribution 
to large-scale societal issues).
Microrobotic	swimmer	on	a	microfluidic	chip	in	an	
electromagnetic	configuration	at	C2N	(Univ.	Paris-Saclay/CNRS).
Cyril Fresillon / C2N / CNRS Images

Get in touch

45 
—The expertise of our labs and technical capabilities is 
presented on the platform Plug-in labs, which also interfaces 
with a network of domain experts.Future students interested in the 
research-based education on offer 
at Université Paris-Saclay, you can 
find information about our course 
offer by exploring our online 
catalogue.Get in touch  
SCIENTIFIC FRAMEWORK UNIVERSITÉ PARIS-SACLAY
Université Paris-Saclay
SMEs, large companies, associations and government bodies 
with a question which requires the advanced expertise of 
our labs, you can get in touch with our dedicated office for 
partnerships, which will help you define your needs and 
orient you towards the relevant labs.
Cyril Fresillon/LPS/CNRS Images

Appendix - 
presentation of the 
Graduate Schools 
and Institutes  
at Université 
Paris-Saclay
48 
—OVERVIEW 
The Biosphera (Biology, Society, Ecology & Environment, 
Resources, Agriculture & Food Systems) Graduate School 
focuses on life sciences and the interactions between 
living organisms and their environments, with the goal of 
addressing issues concerning the future of the biosphere 
and our societies.
Subjects include the ecological transition towards sustainable 
production systems in agriculture, resource management 
and utilisation, and more broadly, global changes and their 
impacts. Biosphera addresses these issues by integrating 
their social, economic, and political dimensions. It mobilises 
a spectrum of research, ranging from fundamental research 
to translational research. Interdisciplinary in nature, 
Biosphera collaborates, in particular, with the Economics 
and Management,’ ‘Geosciences, Climate, Environment and 
Planets,’ ‘Life Sciences and Health,’ ‘Sociology and Political 
Science,’ and ‘Chemistry’ Graduate Schools.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 9 areas of research.
-  Ecological transition: towards sustainable 
socioecosystems and agrosystems.
-  Global changes: mitigation, adaptation and impacts.
-  Management and use of resources: circular economy.
-  Preservation of biodiversity: ecosystemic services.
-  Territorial development strategies: integrating the 
environmental dimension.
-  Food security: food nutrition and transitions.
-  Transformation of biosources: waste valorisation, energy.
-  Global health: the environment, a shared heritage.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.biosphera@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-biosphera
LinkedIn : www.linkedin.com/in/graduate-school-biosphera-656910245GRADUATE SCHOOL - BIOSPHERA - KEY FIGURES
1,000  staff members
300  PhD candidates
550  Master’s students
100  research teams
28 laboratories
—
49 
—OVERVIEW 
The Chemistry Graduate School offers cutting-edge 
education that combines theory, practice, and high-level 
skills. This enables each student to progressively refine 
their career plans by gaining access to a wide range of 
research or professional pathways, covering various fields 
of chemistry while paying attention to both their future 
needs and interdisciplinary perspectives.
The activities of the Chemistry Graduate School revolve 
around the unifying concept of sustainable chemistry, 
aiming to address major societal challenges related to 
energy, the environment, and health. Specifically, these 
challenges include accessing natural resources, their 
transformation, valorisation, and waste recycling. These 
activities encompass developments at the core of the 
discipline and applications in the fields of life sciences, 
physical sciences, and environmental sciences.
Leveraging an exceptional concentration of research 
infrastructures and national facilities (SOLEIL, ATTOLAB, 
IDRIS, etc.), the laboratories of the Chemistry Graduate School 
host numerous experimental platforms and computing centres. They have expertise in instrument development and 
the analysis of all types of samples, including solid, liquid, 
gaseous, organic, inorganic, and biological.
MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 key areas of research.
- Physical, biophysical and analytical chemistry.
- Organic and biomolecular chemistry.
- Inorganic chemistry and materials.
•  Interdisciplinary themes at the interface with physics 
 and the life sciences.
- Health, well-being and life Master’s students.
- Materials of the future.
- Energy: processes, production, transfers and storage.
- Resources, environment and catalysis.
 
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.chimie@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-chimieGRADUATE SCHOOL - CHEMISTRY - KEY FIGURES
950  staff members
300 PhD candidates
350 master students
25 research structures
5,000  scientific publications during 4 years
—
50 
—OVERVIEW 
The School for Computer Science trains the engineers and 
researchers of the future, educating them in key subjects 
such as Big Data, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, 
cybersecurity, and quantum computing. It also addresses 
major societal challenges and cross-disciplinary issues, 
including energy, industrial renewal, health, transport, 
education, and personal safety.
The School has numerous industrial partnerships, 
collaborating with SMEs as well as prominent partners such 
as EDF, Thales, IBM, SNCF, PSA, Danone, Renault, Airbus 
D&S, etc. These partners are involved in Master’s and 
doctoral courses, facilitating patent applications, company 
start-ups, and international publications.
MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 main areas.
-  Automation, robotics, signals, images, communications
-  Data, knowledge, learning, interactions
-  Programming, models, algorithms, architecture, networks• 21 themes of research.
-  Algorithms.
-  Machine learning.
-  Architecture of machines and systems.
-  Automatic control.
-  Bioinformatics.
-  High-Performance computing.
-  Cybersecurity.
-  Quantum computing.
-  Artificial intelligence.
-  Human-machine interaction.
-  Internet of Things.
-  Languages.
-  Formal methods.
-  Programming.
-  Knowledge representation.
-  Networks, telecommunications.
-  Robotics.
-  Data science.
-  Automatic language processing.
-  Image.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.computer-science@universite-paris-saclay.frGRADUATE SCHOOL - COMPUTER SCIENCE - KEY FIGURES
500  PhD candidates
1,000  master students
1,000  researchers
21 laboratories
100  software patents per year
—
51 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Economics & Management 
combines the best of research and education in economic 
and management sciences. This school sets the standard 
in subjects such as digitisation, strategic management and 
innovation, territories and mobility, sustainable economics, 
food, health, energy, environment, climate, public decision-
making, responsible management, and marketing.
With a wide range of expertise on key societal issues for 
public authorities, it actively engages in both public debates 
and scientific outreach, whilst also encouraging the social 
and economic contributions of its researchers in the form 
of patents and startups. It fosters collaborations with industrial partners, non-academic entities, and stakeholders 
to further research initiatives in Europe and worldwide.
MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
 
• 6 main areas of research.
- Networks, digitalisation, and innovation.
- Risks, growth, and cycles.
- Territories, globalisation, and development.
- Food, health, environment, and energy.
- Public policies and organisations.
- Data, modelling, and support for decision-making.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.economics-management@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-emGRADUATE SCHOOL - ECONOMICS AND MANAGEMENT - KEY FIGURES
250  staff members
100  PhD candidates
1,850 students
21 research units
11 Master’s tracks
1 Doctoral School
—
52 
—OVERVIEW 
The Education Graduate School is a learning community 
dedicated to education, vocational training, academic 
teaching, and educational innovation, with a focus on the 
teaching professions and academic staff. Its purpose is to 
offer undergraduate studies and continuing education for 
teachers and academic staff across all levels of education, 
from nursery school to higher education. The School’s 
mission is to enhance the recognition and appeal of 
teaching professions whilst supporting both fundamental 
and applied research in the field of education.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 7 teaching disciplines.
- Economic and social sciences.
- English.
- History-geography.
- Life and earth sciences.
- Mathematics.
- Physics-chemistry .
- Physical and sports education.
• 3 key focus areas of research.
- Multicategory and multidisciplinary teaching.
- Building an ‘innovative pedagogy’ approach.
- Development of research programmes in education.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.education@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/en/graduate-schools/graduate-school-educationGRADUATE SCHOOL - EDUCATION - KEY FIGURES
300  staff members
1,200  students
7 teaching disciplines
3 Master’s tracks
11 programmes preparing for national exams
7 affiliated laboratories
—
53 
—OVERVIEW 
The School for Engineering and Systems Sciences offers 
programmes in the fields of engineering sciences and 
related digital sciences. It covers various major subject 
areas, exploring and developing innovative approaches 
to designing, manufacturing, using, and maintaining 
systems that lead to future ecological and economic 
advancements for our societies. Its Master’s and Ph.D. 
programmes enjoy significant international recognition, 
with international students comprising half of the student 
body, and they prepare graduates for R&D professions in 
France and internationally .
With 67 research laboratories that contribute to addressing 
significant societal challenges through research and 
innovation, the Graduate School strives to strike a balance 
between the ecological and economic development of our 
societies by conducting research at the highest global level.
Situated in a unique ecosystem that brings together 
academic centres and industrial partners in one territory, 
the Graduate School benefits from this comprehensive ecosystem for transferring results from laboratories to the 
market at all stages: SATT (Société d’Accélération du Transfert 
de Technologies), Fab Labs, incubators, calls for projects, and  
seed funds.
MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 9 areas of research.
- Automation, control, and robotics.
- Electrical and applied physics engineering.
- Industrial engineering and manufacturing.
- Materials.
- Applied mathematics and digital sciences.
- Fluid and solid mechanics.
- Optics.
- Biochemical, chemical and biomedical processes.
- Telecommunications.
CONTACT US
E-mail : contacts.gs-sis@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-sisGRADUATE SCHOOL - ENGINEERING AND SYSTEMS SCIENCE - KEY FIGURES
2,800  staff members
600  PhD candidates
1,500  Master’s students
67 laboratories
4 doctoral schools
2,300  publications per year
—
54 
—OVERVIEW 
Students, academic staff, and researchers at the Graduate 
School for Geosciences, Climate, Environment, and Planets 
study the surface layers of the Earth and other planets, 
exploring how they work.
At the core of scientific, societal, and environmental 
challenges related to climate change, pollution, natural 
resource management, energy transition and space 
exploration, the Graduate School and its laboratories create 
an interdisciplinary environment for both education and 
cutting-edge research. This strengthens the combined use 
of approaches, ranging from fieldwork to space missions 
and digital modelling.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 key focus areas of research.
-  Fluid surfaces and climate (greenhouse gases and 
aerosols, climate system modelling, air pollution, etc.).
-  Geosciences and environment (mineral deposit formation 
and environmental impact of resource extraction, 
subsurface heterogeneity for sustainable resource 
management and development, etc.).
-  Solar system and planetology (space missions from design 
to results, planetary surfaces and envelopes, history of the 
solar system, current and past planetary climates, etc.).
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs-geosciences@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-geosciencesGRADUATE SCHOOL - GEOSCIENCES, CLIMATE, ENVIRONMENT, PLANETS - KEY FIGURES
650  staff members
120  PhD candidates
250  Master’s students
7 laboratories
3 Doctoral Schools
775  publications per year
—
55 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Health and Drug Sciences 
coordinates research and education teams in the 
fields of therapeutic innovation, drugs, and health 
products, fostering cross-disciplinary health research 
in pharmaceutical sciences, drugs, medical devices, 
diagnostics, physiopathology, translational medicine, and 
clinical research. It strikes a balance between fundamental 
and applied research.
The School actively promotes European and international 
relations and trains future scientific experts with a global 
outlook through various internationalised courses and 
practices within its six internship programmes and over 
one hundred international agreements. It also addresses 
socio-economic challenges related to health and well-
being, industrial renewal, biodiversity, food, big data, and 
artificial intelligence.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 5 assets for therapeutic innovation.
- Assistance, promotion, support.
- Public-private R&D cooperation.
- Technology transfer.
- Safeguarding innovation.
- Entrepreneurship.
•  7 research areas.
- Molecular and cellular physiopathology.
- Microbiology and anti-infective therapies.
- Engineering of proteins and therapeutic targets.
- Pharmaceutical chemistry.
- Pharmacology - toxicology.
- Pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical physical chemistry.
- Immunology and biotherapies.
CONTACT US
E-mail : contact.gs-heads@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.frGRADUATE SCHOOL - HEALTH AND DRUG SCIENCES - KEY FIGURES
550  staff members
310  PhD candidates
500  Master’s students
350  scientific articles and 26 patents in 5 years
100  international internship agreements
—
56 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Humanities and Heritage Science 
is dedicated to research, innovation, and Master’s and 
doctoral level education in various fields, including arts, 
design, history, literature, French and foreign cultures and 
civilizations, musicology, information and communication 
sciences, and heritage science (encompassing disciplines 
like archaeometry, archaeology, archaeomaterials, 
chemistry, history of the arts, physics, paleoenvironment, 
and associated methods).
The interplay between the disciplinary dimension of 
research and interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary practices 
is central to the School’s mission. It supports research 
teams and laboratories in their development strategies, 
assisting numerous individual and collective projects 
recognised for their international excellence. The School 
also fosters innovative research approaches, leading to new 
methods, objects, and research questions. The Master’s and 
doctoral programmes provide students with a high level of 
expertise, knowledge, and skills, enabling them to engage 
with research and development hubs in both the public and 
private sectors.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 2 main research areas.
-  Heritage science and its foundation (archeometry, 
archaeology, archaeo-materials, chemistry, art history, 
physics, paleoenvironment).
-  Science(s) and culture(s): knowledge societies  
and knowledge outreach.
• Disciplinary range.
-  Humanities: arts, design, history, literature  
cultures and civilizations, musicology.
-  Social sciences: information and communication sciences. 
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.hsp@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-hspGRADUATE SCHOOL - HUMANITIES - HERITAGE SCIENCE - KEY FIGURES
160  staff members
105  PhD candidates
550  Master’s students
22 Master’s tracks
12 research laboratories
—
57 
—OVERVIEW 
The Law Graduate School offers a comprehensive 
education and research framework that encompasses 
all areas of law and promotes an understanding of legal 
regulations at the national, European, and international 
levels. It prepares students for competitive examinations 
and provides pathways to various legal professions in both 
the public and private sectors. It is built on three key areas: 
international openness, direct involvement in the socio-
economic fabric of the region (including entities currently 
practising judicial and legal professions), and establishing 
stronger interdisciplinary links to conduct research and 
training projects in various fields, such as the environment, 
social and solidarity economy, and artificial intelligence.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 main areas of strategic research. 
- Environnements & heritages.
- Justice & liberties.
- Regulations & technologies.
•  4 methodological guidelines for research.
- Foundations of the law & innovations.
-  History, dissemination and internationalisation  
of legal doctrines.
- Integration of legal research into the society.
- Training through legal research and professional practice.
CONTACT US
E-mail : graduate-school.droit@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-droit
Linkedin : www.linkedin.com/company/graduate-school-droit-universit%C3%A9-paris-saclayGRADUATE SCHOOL - LAW - KEY FIGURES
200  staff members
175  PhD candidates
800 Master’s students
9 cross-disciplinary research centres
60 partner universities worldwide
—
58 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Life Sciences and Health offers 
education and research in the fields of Biology, Bioinformatics, 
and Medicine. It adopts an integrative approach to life 
sciences, encompassing the study of molecular mechanisms 
in biological systems and their interactions at various 
levels, including the evolutionary, pathophysiological, 
and biotechnological scales. It focuses on understanding 
fundamental mechanisms in models representing the 
biodiversity of living organisms, with a strong emphasis on 
microorganisms, plants, animals, and humans.
The Graduate School provides a collaborative space 
that encourages interaction across various aspects of 
Life Sciences and establishes a productive relationship 
between fundamental and applied research. Its initiatives 
align with significant scientific and societal challenges and 
are central to the objectives of the European University, 
EUGLOH, for Global Health. Additionally, the School’s 
emphasis on Biotech nology and Health is particularly 
conducive to innovation.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 main areas of research.
-  Fundamental mechanisms of biodiversity  
in the living world.
-  Human and animal health and biotechnologies.
-  Data sciences & advanced technologies for the 
exploration and engineering of living organisms.
• Graduate programmes.
- Biochemistry and structural biology.
- Bioinformatics.
- Oncology and biotherapy.
- Cell biology, development, ageing, reproduction.
- Clinical sciences.
- Endocrinology, biosignaling, metabolism & physiology.
- Evolutionary biology.
- Genetics & genomics.
- Immunology.
- Microbiology.
- Neurosciences.
- Systems & synthetic biology.
- MD-PhD programme.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.lsh@universite-paris-saclay  
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.frGRADUATE SCHOOL - LIFE SCIENCES AND HEALTH - KEY FIGURES
2,000  staff members
500  PhD candidates
1,000  master students
70 laboratories / 6 doctoral schools
60 licensed patents and 70 startups in 5 years
—
59 
—OVERVIEW 
The Mathematics Graduate School covers a wide range of 
pure mathematics disciplines, including algebra, geometry, 
analysis, arithmetic, topology, dynamical systems, partial 
differential equations, probability, and statistics.
The School, in partnership with the Fondation Mathématique 
Jacques Hadamard (EDMH), offers excellent career 
opportunities in both academic and industrial research 
for the world’s top young mathematicians. The Master’s 
programme, “Mathematics and Applications,” is the largest 
mathematics Master’s programme globally.
With a strong focus on interdisciplinary research, 
the Mathematics Gradiate School maintains close 
collaborations with neighbouring graduate schools and 
disciplines, such as biology, computer science, scientific 
computation, engineering, theoretical physics, and 
actively participates in interdisciplinary initiatives at local, 
national, and international levels.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 3 areas of research.
- Fundamental mathematics.
- Applied mathematics.
- Mathematics at interfaces.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gsmath@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/en/graduate-school-mathematicsGRADUATE SCHOOL - MATHEMATICS - KEY FIGURES
350  researchers
20 ERC grants
300 PhD candidates
750  Master’s students
12 laboratories
10 Fields medals
3 Abel prizes
—
60 
—OVERVIEW 
The Physics Graduate School is internationally recognised 
for its research and education that covers the entire 
spectrum of physics, including theoretical work, modelling, 
simulation, instrumentation, and laboratory experiments. 
With 115 scientific and technical platforms, capable of 
accommodating external activities, it spans a wide range of 
thematic scientific areas, including chemistry, engineering, 
and biology, facilitating cutting-edge disciplinary research 
within laboratories.
The School possesses strong potential for scientific and 
technological innovation and contributes significantly 
to socio-economic challenges related to energy, the 
environment, and health. Its research activities involve 
extensive collaborations at local, national, European, 
and global levels, with strong ties to industrial sectors. 
The School also benefits from the support of three Labex 
initiatives: P2ІO (Physics of the Two Infinities and Origins), 
PALM (Physics of Atoms, Light, and Matter), and NanoSaclay.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 4 main areas of research.
- Waves and Matter.
- Physics of the Two Infinities.
- Astronomy and Astrophysics.
- Fundamental Physics.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.physique@universite-paris-saclay.fr  
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-physiqueGRADUATE SCHOOL - PHYSICS - KEY FIGURES
3,400  staff members 
500  PhD candidates
550  Master’s students
115  scientific and technical platforms
40 laboratories
4 doctoral schools
2 Nobel prizes
—
61 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Public Health, built on research 
conducted by the Centre for Research in Epidemiology and 
Population Health (CESP) and its affiliated units, focuses on 
significant health issues throughout a person’s lifespan and 
the complexities of public health phenomena.
The School’s key objectives include reducing social health 
inequalities, managing infection and environmental risks, 
promoting both physical and mental well-being, contributing 
to the protection of human and animal populations, and 
upholding the values of healthcare and health research.
These issues and objectives are approached through 
a highly multidisciplinary and integrative perspective, 
integrating epidemiology, biostatistics, health economics, 
clinical research, and social sciences. This approach 
combines biological and environmental aspects and 
relies on extensive health databases, advanced analytical 
methods, while considering ethical, environmental, cultural, 
and social factors.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• Epidemiology.
- Etiological epidemiology.
- Clinical epidemiology.
• Genomics.
• Health systems.
- Treatment evaluation.
• Health sciences.
• Humanities and social sciences.
- Social issues.
- Ethics.
• Methods: biostatistics and qualitative methods.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.sante-publique@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/graduate-schools/graduate-school-sante-publique
Linkedin : www.linkedin.com/company/graduate-school-sante-publiqueGRADUATE SCHOOL - PUBLIC HEALTH - KEY FIGURES
700  staff members
150  PhD candidates
500  Master’s students
1 School of Public Health
11 research teams
2 research service units dedicated to therapeutic trials in infectious diseases and large cohorts
—
62 
—OVERVIEW 
The mission of the Graduate School - Research and Higher 
Education is pertinent to all other Graduate Schools at 
Université Paris-Saclay.
On one hand, it offers foundational skills for early-career 
students and doctoral candidates aspiring to work in 
research and/or higher education. This training strategy 
follows a personalised ‘pre-doctorate + doctorate’ 
approach, providing complementary educational 
pathways closely integrated with discipline-specific 
training. It also ensures close collaboration with research 
teams, enabling students to maintain strong connections 
with the research community.
On the other hand, the Graduate School proposes tailored 
training and events for educators, teaching researchers, 
active researchers, and newly recruited researchers, 
serving as an interdisciplinary platform for collaborative 
discussions and the development of training programs for 
research and higher education careers.
The Graduate School of Research and Higher Education 
collaborates closely with discipline-specific Graduate 
Schools to provide comprehensive research-focused 
training and is committed to remaining flexible and 
responsive to the ever-evolving landscape of research, 
innovation, and technology.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.mres@universite-paris-saclay.fr 
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/graduate-schools/gs-metiers-de-la-recherche-et-de-lenseignement-superieur
63 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Sociology and Political Science 
brings together two social science disciplines employing 
both qualitative and quantitative methods to analyse 
contemporary issues, with a particular emphasis on public 
policy evaluation. It maintains a prominent position at 
regional, national, and international levels in areas such as 
justice, labour, environment, and governance.
The Graduate School is actively engaged in several 
international and European research networks, including 
the European University Alliance for Global Health, the 
International Public Policy Association, and the European 
Consortium for Political Research.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 4 main research areas.
- Environment, regions, and transitions.
- Work, employment, and professions.
- Sociology of public action.
- Data analysis.
• 6 key topics.
- Evaluation of public policies.
- Justice and security.
- Labour and markets.
- Science, technology, and society.
- International policy.
- Environment.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.ssp@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-sspGRADUATE SCHOOL - SOCIOLOGY AND POLITICAL SCIENCE - KEY FIGURES
100 staff members
120  PhD candidates
1,000  Master’s students
7 research units
1 research federation
—
64 
—OVERVIEW 
The Graduate School for Sports, Motor, and Human 
Movement Sciences maintains high standards of excellence 
in the study of sports, physical education, adapted 
physical activity, training and performance optimisation, 
ergonomics, management, and engineering with the aim of 
advancing human movement.
It offers a dynamic environment rooted in top-quality 
academic research and supported by professional partners 
in the sports, leisure, and health sectors. Through its 
research and education in leisure, sports events, prevention, 
health, ageing, well-being, and disability, it is relevant to 
the entire population, spanning from the youngest to the 
oldest, from beginners to elite athletes, and from non-
disabled individuals to those with disabilities.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• Physical and sports education.
• Adapted physical activity and sports health.
• Training and sports performance optimisation.
• Sport management: sports events and public policies.
• Engineering for human movement.
•  Basic and applied research in motor control, 
psychology, cognitive and behavioural neuroscience, 
exercise physiology, and biomechanics.
CONTACT US
E-mail : gs.sports-sciences@universite-paris-saclay.fr 
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/gs-smfhGRADUATE SCHOOL - SPORTS, MOTOR AND HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCES - KEY FIGURES
80 staff members
130 PhD candidates
500  Master’s students
17 laboratories
1 doctoral school
1 federative research organisation
—
65 
—OVERVIEW 
Université Paris-Saclay’s Institute for the Sciences of 
Light, originally established as the Institute of Optics in 
1917, upholds a century-old legacy of both fundamental 
and applied research in optics. With over a century of 
development, marked by numerous remarkable milestones 
and achievements, it actively fosters cross-cutting research 
projects spanning six Graduate Schools. It continues to 
advance quantum technologies, observe gravitational 
waves, explore matter and life, study the sun, planets, 
climate, and master energy.
As a cross-disciplinary institution without walls, the Institute 
encourages collaborations between teams working in this 
field and contributes to advancements in sciences of light 
across all areas, from the most theoretical to the most 
applied. It benefits from a diversity of world-class facilities 
on the Saclay site, including Synchrotron SOLEIL, Free 
Electron Laser, Attosecond X-UV Laser Platform, and the 
Nanotechnology Centre at C2N, among others.MAIN AREAS OF RESEARCH
• 11 main areas of research.
- Atomic and molecular physics, plasmas, spectroscopy.
- Biophotonics.
-  Extreme light, specialised optics (ultra-high intensity, 
relativistic optics, ultrashort pulses, X-UV optics and 
sources).
-  Imaging (biomedical imaging and microscopy,  
super-resolution, image sensors, lensless imaging, SNOM,  
image processing).
-  Information and communication technologies 
(optoelectronics, fibre optics).
-  Instrumentation (sensors, detectors, LIDAR, optical 
diagnostics, metrology).
-  Lasers.
-  Materials for optics (inorganics, semiconductor, organic, 
liquid crystals, photochromic).
-  Nanophotonics (plasmonics, metamaterials, 2D materials, 
surfaces and interfaces, optomechanics).
-  Photochemistry.
-  Quantum technologies.
CONTACT US
E-mail : contact.isl@universite-paris-saclay.fr
Website : www.universite-paris-saclay.fr/islINSTITUTE FOR THE SCIENCES OF LIGHT - KEY FIGURES
690 researchers and academics
60 PhD candidates
200  engineers
26 laboratories
8 R&D infrastructures 
23 ERC projects
—
Photo credits
Cover From left to right, bottom to top: Université d’Évry •  AP-HP Faculté de médecine •  CEA •   
Frédérique PLAS/C2N (Univ. Paris-Saclay/CNRS)/CNRS Images •  Institut d’Optique/Fondation L’Oréal •   
Carme Arisa/Université Paris-Saclay • Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines •   
Carme Arisa/Université Paris-Saclay 
Opening pages  
Page 3 / Christophe Peus/Université Paris-Saclay  
Page 7 / Greenhouses at the Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin (Univ. Paris-Saclay/INRAE/AgroParisTech)  - Corine Enard/Inrae  
Page 19 / Christophe Peus/LabForSIMS/Faculté de médecine/Université Paris-Saclay
Page 43 / Christian Morel/LISN (Univ. Paris-Saclay/CentraleSupélec/CNRS/Inria)/CNRS Images  
Page 47 / Robot from the high-throughout put cloning-phenotyping platform at the Métagenopolis research unit  
(Univ. Paris-Saclay/INRAE) and MICALIS (Univ. Paris-Saclay/INRAE/AgroParisTech) - Nicolas Bertrand/INRAE

université-paris-saclay.fr 
Bâtiment Breguet - 3 rue Joliot Curie
91190 Gif-sur-Yvette  
France
November 2023
