"UP 2030: A VISION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES 
(Strategic Roadmap 2023 — 2029 for a Filipino Global University)" 
ATTY. SALVADOR B. BELARO, JR., LL.M., Ph.D. 
Transitioning out of the Pandemic 
Building upon the achievements of past Presidents of the University of the 
Philippines and the UP community, the front end execution of this Mission-Vision 
entails attainment of the new normal of education through full, in-person classes starting 
with the second term, so that UP can continue on its upward trajectory and forward path 
to be a truly Filipino Global University. 
Alongside the regular conduct of face-to-face classes, there is the urgent necessity 
of reaching consensus, followed by effective execution, on how to best attend to the 
health and weliness of every student, faculty member, and staff personnel. 
Given the sheer size of the UP population, it is but necessary that the University's 
health professions alumni, coordinated by the UP Health Service, help in the conduct of 
the health and weliness checks. It would also be necessary for UP campus community 
members to caringly and compassionately look after each other as we all navigate our 
way to new normalcy. For the families of campus community members, a Malasakit 
Center on every campus would be one answer to gaining access to affordable health care 
and referrals to the nearest government hospitals, 
As we settle into the new normal, the tedious tasks of steering the University 
toward the trajectory and path to becoming a Filipino Global University must be 
undertaken. The objective is to have everyone back on track before the second term 
ends. 
Assessments are necessary to ascertain the dimensions of the impact of more than 
two years of online, modular, and blended learning. Interventions must be readied to 
address the effects. Upgrading and updating of curricula which the pandemic sidelined 
must resume. Same with shelved funded research, industry-academe linkages, as well as 
extension and outreach. Our defenses against both the Omicron and older variants of the 
coronavirus that causes COVID can best be fortified with securing ample supplies of the 
US-FDA newly-approved bivalent vaccines of Moderna and Pfizer for the UP 
community. 
Page 1 of 10 
UP: A Filipino Global University 
A genuinely Filipino Global University is what every Filipino family expects 
UP to be now and more so in the future. Filipino in being respectful of the factually-
recorded past. Filipino in faithfulness to honoring the legacy and sacrifices of those 
who came before us. Filipino in ensuring Filipinos from all walks of life have their 
just share and empowered place in the future the University is at the forefront of 
creating for every Filipino family, especially the poor and marginalized. 
Leadership Approach: Consensus, Collaboration, Innovation 
Among the first order of business is the crafting and approval of a new University 
Strategic Plan spanning 2023 to 2030. This Plan shall address yearly priorities every step 
of the way, with strategic goals, multi-year budgets, annual measurable indicators of 
progress, and by 2030 have the University firmly-positioned to take on the challenges of 
the next 20 years. 
This Strategic Plan will entail consensus, collaboration, and innovation from 
every stakeholder sector of the University. The Strategic Plan shall be the manifestation 
of our collective shared vision and aspirations for the University and the Filipino people. 
This Strategic Plan will move us and our country forward. 
First Things First: Promotion and Protection of Stakeholders' Welfare 
To become a truly great university, the university has to strengthen the basics, to 
do the extra mile in taking care of its stakeholders so that in turn, they will be motivated, 
if not inspired to give their best in giving their contribution to the realization of a great 
university. This should be incorporated in the Strategic Plan. 
The pandemic and the resulting economic crunch is leaving us no choice except 
but to look at the real needs of the various stakeholders of the university — our faculty 
members, our staff, our students, our alumni, the government, and the Filipino people. 
The times require us not to think that we are beyond all the developments besetting the 
country and the world, as in fact we have no choice but to be in sync with these 
developments. Thus, it is about time that we come up with a policy of prioritization of 
the welfare of our stakeholders so that they will also be stronger in dealing with the 
vicissitudes not only of academic life but also that of the evolving world around us. 
Page 2 of 10 
Our Faculty 
To ensure faculty retention, we should review and improve our faculty housing 
program as well as our policies for availment of medical services at our infinnaries and 
the Philippine General Hospital so that our faculty will be given free andlor discounted 
rates for medical services. Our faculty salary and retirement schemes should also be 
reviewed to ensure their competitiveness. This should be complemented by a 
strengthened lending program to faculty members under the auspices of the university. 
We should also encourage and incentivize our faculty members to pursue graduate and 
post-graduate studies. We should effectively assist those faculty members wanting to 
study in foreign universities so that we could learn from the best practices in other parts 
of the world. Our university should try our maximum best to make that a reality. 
It is about time we have an official policy that strengthens the acceptance of 
consultancies by our Professors so that they could apply in the private sector what they 
are teaching in the classroom and so as to ensure a healthy academe-practice balance 
that results to a more financially viable working arrangement to ensure faculty longevity 
and retention. This policy would also augur well for the promotion of a research culture 
in the university and would promote the much needed synergy for the output of UP 
academia and the requirements of the public and private sector. 
Our Staff and Non-Teaching Personnel 
Our staff also needs our prioritization in terms of housing, medical services at our 
infirmaries and the Philippine General Hospital, lending accommodations, and increase 
in salaries! grant of incentives as well as retirement benefits. 
In every campus and department, the next six years can be a dynamic phase for 
UP faculty and staff. Career development and progress would be powerful incentives to 
foster instruction effectiveness and classroom inspiration. We must create new paths for 
career advancement and satisfaction which do not entail heavy budget impact or the 
financial requirements for which can be spread out over time. 
The UP System has 1,094 unfilled plantilla positions. These unfilled positions 
remaining vacant stands in the way of the career advancement of hundreds of UP faculty 
and staff. Add to the hundreds of regular personnel waiting for promotion and other 
forms of career advancement, there are 1,028 job order and 920 contract of service 
personnel throughout the UP system. UP must show the way on how to end 
contractualization in the government workforce. By 2024, a new comprehensive 1 0-year 
Page 3 of 10 
Program on Faculty and Staff Careers and Retirement should be ready for UP Board of 
Regents approval after having undergoing completed staff work and consultations. 
Our Students 
Hand in hand with working for the best we could for our faculty and staff, we 
should also endeavor to provide our students the best and most enriching collegiate 
experience. Let us revisit our policies and programs for student housing. Let us build 
more sustainable student dormitories. Let us ensure that our students receive timely and 
free medical assistance/services at our infirmaries and the Philippine General Hospital. 
Let us also ensure availability of guidance counsellors in all UP units to our students to 
safeguard their mental health and their adulting journey. For students in need, let us have 
a more pronounced policy on availment of student loans and assistantships in all offices 
of the university. Let us also institutionalize the practice of finding externships/on the 
job trainings for our students with partner institutions to ensure a smooth transition to 
the world of work. Let us also try our very best to institutionalize a system by which our 
students can avail of foreign studies, even for a term or a summer, and also a foreign 
students exchange program. 
Much has been achieved in increasing and expanding access to the high-quality 
education UP is known for all over the country. Free college education policies of the 
national government have put increasing pressure on the UP System to admit more 
students by opening more slots and building more facilities to accommodate more 
students, faculty, and staff. 
Yet there remains some room for improvement because we must seek out and 
reach those barangays out of the over 42,000 where there are no or few homegrown or 
hometown UP students and graduates. Ten UP students in every barangay is the bare 
minimum we can aim for. A deep dive into our enrollment and demographic databases 
would reveal which ones these uncharted barangays are. Such policy should be qualified 
by prioritizing in the Ten Students Rule Per Barangay, honor students of public high 
schools in the country to ensure that the university gets the best and the brightest from 
the public school system. Parallel to these efforts our stakeholder relationships can be 
further strengthened with frequent external services for and immersion into Host 
Communities, improved interaction with Feeder Schools and Adopted Communities. 
Students' decisions on applying for admission into the University have largely 
been based on the sterling reputation of UP through the decades. It is about time 
expectations and aspirations are met easily-accessible, easily downloadable, detailed 
information about every subject they will take, every faculty member and their academic 
qualifications and work experience in the academe and outside academe, and the 
electronic learning resources they can access to reduce out-of-pocket expenses for 
Page 4 of 10 
books. We must be totally forthcoming on these informational matters so students and 
their families can indeed make fully-informed decisions of their investment of four to 
five years of their lives. 
While we continually respond to the access issues, we must boost our efforts and 
increase our logistics on improving quality, guided and measured by sound indicators 
agreed upon, hopefully through consensus. On-time completion and graduation in four-
year and five-year courses can be improved with adequate, accessible, responsive, and 
relevant student services. Students, faculty, and staff in distress or experiencing 
difficulties can be extended helping hands. 
Our Alumni 
It is herein proposed that the UP System have an outreach program to and for UP 
Alumni in distress and challenged—economically, health-wise, and needing continuing 
learning. This outreach will entail finding out who among UP Alumni have not been as 
fortunate as the others who had successful careers and/or livelihoods. 
For alumni who are in business or entrepreneurship, we can adopt policies 
prioritizing them within the bounds of the law in the various contracts for infrastructure, 
supplies or otherwise. We can also institutionalize a referral system to fellow alumni 
who are in kindred pursuits and endeavors. 
Working with the UP Alumni Association (UPAA), the UP System can set-up an 
Alumni Assist Program with microfinancing and health management components. These 
initiatives should go hand in hand with the setting up of as many viable alumni 
associations all over the country and in many parts of the globe. All these initiatives will 
redound to the establishment of a strong and global UP alumni network that would be a 
strong partner in implementing the mandates of the university 
Through the UPAA, Philippine General Hospital and a PGH Partner Hospitals 
Network, Alumni in distress needing health interventions for themselves and their 
dependents can be served. Costs of operating this service could be worked out with the 
Social Security System, Government Service Insurance System, PhilHealth, and 
probably an HMO-like solution that pays for itself or relieves or lessens the government 
financing burden. 
Continuing learning assist can be in the form of subsidized professional 
development short courses, updating workshops, and conferences. 
Page 5 of 10 
Our government and the Filipino nation 
Our duty to our government as well as to the Filipino nation is defined fri our charter, 
Republic Act 9500 (The University of the Philippines Charter of 2008). It is the duty of 
the next UP President not only to uphold it but also to build on what his predecessors 
have done in the past and to tailor-fit and dovetail it to the post-pandemic era. It is thus, 
about time that we review not only our compliance, but our fealty to the mandates and 
purposes of the University, as enumerated in Section 3 thereof, viz: 
a) As an academic leader; as a training institution 
Our academic programs must continue to be the very best in the country. This 
requires continual and programmed updating of undergraduate, graduate, and post-
graduate degree offerings. 
By 2025, a significant majority of the programs with the highest enrollments should 
have been updated and upgraded to meet the needs of the next 20 to 25 years of the 
world of work, community service, public service, and private practice. The last updated 
curriculum of all programs should be no older than 2015 to 2020. 
To make sure the learning UP students gain on campus do not become dated or 
obsolete by the time they graduate, it would be necessary to further enable the academic 
organizations and student councils to serve their constituents better so they can conduct 
co-curricular learning activities that are supplemental to classroom sessions. 
b) as a graduate university 
With respect to its mandate of providing advanced studies to faculty members from 
other state as well as private colleges and universities, we have to review our policies to 
ensure that we effectively and perform this mandate with dispatch. It is time to review 
unreasonable residency periods and waiting periods, among others, to ensure that 
teachers who are on study leaves at the State University will be able to return to their 
respective schools and do justice to the investment of the government for their 
education. 
c) as a research university 
We need to lay down policies to encourage a more productive research culture in the 
university. 
High-quality, global quality research entails funds and personnel work-hours. We 
must take stock of where we usually get our research funds and where other untapped 
Page 6 of 10 
sources of funding exist. Though limited, some local government units and national 
government agencies do have research funds. They need not do the research themselves 
because the University can do that for them. After all, we are here to serve and 
contribute our share in nation-building. 
There are much more research funds in the larger private sector and the international 
community. To enable our faculty and students to undertake and participate in private 
sector and international research, we must update our internal rules and procedures, so 
we can maximize our available resources and time, as well as improve our 
accountability and reporting systems to meet the standards and practices in the private 
and public sectors. 
Aside from Basic Research, Applied Research, and Collaborative Research, we need 
more Institutional and Corporate Research Partners, more inter-campus pooling of 
research efforts, and more efficient conduct of research by dividing projects into doable 
Jigsaw Modules that can be pieced together later as planned. 
d) as a public service university; as a provider of opportunities for leadership, 
responsible citizenship and the development of democratic values, 
institutions and practices 
Being a Is/co/ar ng Bayan connotes the moral duty to serve the people back. Such 
service in the post-pandemic era should be broadened not just to be a trailblazer in the 
realm of thought and in the philosophical championing of our less fortunate countlymen 
but also in meaningful service in our communities. Eveiy student and alumni can be 
tapped to help with respect to their respective field of expertise in nation-building in 
helping our communities. A more broadened sense of nationalism should entail actual, 
realizable, practicable endeavors that will translate to actual benefit to our countrymen. 
e) as a regional and global university 
It is high time that we strengthen our scholarship and other similar programs for our 
faculty members and students who wish to pursue graduate studies or externships 
abroad, to cement sister university arrangements with suitable universities the world 
over and to institute a system of faculty and student exchanges so that our faculty and 
students will be continually be made abreast of best practices in their respective fields of 
expertise and/or interest. 
There should also be a parallel effort to make UP the university of first choice for 
qualified foreign students who wish to study in the university in our bid to make ours an 
international university which is highly ranked not only in the Asia-Pacific Region but 
also the world over. While other universities in our country are scrambling to get their 
Page 7 of 10 
fair share of international students, our university which has the space and the resources, 
among others, that could cater to such a market have yet to come up with a firm policy 
in this regard. Indeed, we have much ground to cover in terms of having campuses that 
have a global character by having more foreign students and more foreign faculty the 
Filipino students can interact with on a nearly daily basis. 
1) as a protector of the professional and economic rights and welfare of its 
academic and non-academic personnel and a model of democratic 
governance 
As the country's national university, let it be known that the University is a trailblazer 
in protecting the interests of its personnel not only in the accordance of rights and 
privileges which are legally theirs but also in the application of many alternative ways to 
settle intra-university disputes. Resort to Alternative Dispute Resolution should be 
encouraged among the stakeholders. Corollarily, UP should be a model in the 
observance of democratic governance as well as in the implementation of innovative 
policies that nurture democratic governance such as various fora and the like. 
Promoting a More Vibrant University Town Culture 
Let us institute policies promoting a more vibrant university life in all our 
component units by coming up with programs and activities that make collegiate and 
academic life more meaningful for all stakeholders of the university. Let us have more 
activities that will showcase the university as a venue for the promotion of arts, culture, 
sports, and as a venue for the planning and implementation of community outreach 
activities. Traditions like the Lantern Parade and other activities should be supported. 
Even the regularization of a Sunday Market in all our university towns could be a venue 
for our budding entrepreneurs. And of course, sports and wellness. It is about time that 
the university take a serious look at our facilities, equipment, and activities that will 
promote sports and wellness in all our UP communities. 
Fiscal Autonomy, Less GAA Dependence 
The yearly rituals on proposing budgets for national government funding through 
the annual appropriations from Congress have yielded mixed results of successes and 
failed expectations. To gradually fill the wide gaps of unmet funding needs, it is 
imperative that the University reduce over the next six years, its dependence on the 
national budget for capital outlays and some maintenance, operating, and other 
Page 8 of 10 
expenses. Doing so will also enable UP to achieve greater fiscal autonomy and better 
insulation from changing political headwinds. 
The University of the Philippines should strive for more modes of Public-Private 
Partnerships—but with the private aspect having more emphasis and focus. UP must 
explore how it can avail of the Amendments to the Public Service Act (Republic Act 
11659) and the new Fiscal Incentives regime established through Republic Act 11534. 
The Revised Corporation Code (RA 11232) and the Cooperative Development Authority 
Charter of 2019 could also show the way on how UP and its immediate environs can be 
vibrant hubs for social enterprises and cooperatives. Another opportunity to be harnessed 
is that of the University becoming a direct recipient-implementor of foreign-assisted 
projects from multilateral and international aid institutions with proper coordination and 
approvals of the Department of Finance, National Economic and Development 
Authority, and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas. 
In the Service of Time; Promotion of Nationalism, Freedom, Justice, History and 
Culture 
The University must also be in the Service of Time. UP and we, its community, 
are custodians of our country's history, culture, languages, and way of life. We are here 
to nurture and empower Filipinos in the here and now. The country trusts us to be at the 
forefront of creating its future integrating the multicultural diversity of our over 108 
million Filipinos and over 7,000 islands. 
In furtherance of these objectives, the University must invest in flagship 
multidisciplinary, multi-year projects that are faithful to our Past, empowering of the 
Present, and create that diverse Future where the Philippines and Filipino communities 
everywhere on the planet are a balanced diversity of what make us Filipino but able to 
live in modem environments. 
Pivotal to University service to country, nation and time is that UP remain the 
foremost stronghold of nationalism, independent thought, academic freedom, defense of 
the poor and marginalized, and strengthening of the middle class of workers, 
entrepreneurs, and civil society. The University must come to the defense of the victims 
of injustice, lift the marginalized and disadvantaged, and engage all sectors of our 
society to make economic and political development inclusive and pervasive. 
Page 9 of 10 
Right Place, Right Time 
This Aspirant and Author of this Mission-Vision Paper submits to the UP Board of 
Regents his uncommon mix of experience and expertise which build upon the basic 
five minimum qualifications the Board of Regents has required of all 
applicants/aspirants for UP President. 
Highlights of that mix are the varied perspectives from the private education 
sector, government service, entrepreneurship, international education, and law practice 
this Aspirant presents for the consideration of the UP Board of Regents and the 
stakeholders they represent. 
Mandates Execution 
This Aspirant, if chosen, hopes to be known as the UP President with whom UP 
stakeholders have had meaningful and memorable collaboration with while building 
consensus on and executing the Strategic Plan positioning the University for the next 
two decades. 
Decades and centuries ago, there were various visions and predictions of what life 
would be now. We are already in the second decade of the 21st  Century. Many of the 
prognostications were either too optimistic or the opposite, though some have been more 
or less in the ballpark. For the some parts of our country's history, discord and disunity 
kept the nation from advancing further than it should have. 
The next UP President will have an enormous mission of leading the laying of the 
groundwork and architecture for 2030 to 2050. This is the magnitude of the great 
responsibility upon all our shoulders are Members of the UP community. 
Taken in the perspective of the great expanse of UP and Philippine history, the 
mission of the next UP President can be simply stated this way: To add another stone 
to the edifice that is the legacy of the University to the Filipino people. 
Itanghal ang UP nating mahal! Paglingkuran ang sambayanan! 
Page 10 of 10 
