 
 Department of Political Science and Public Management   
 
 
 
 
 
Strategy 202 2-2026  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
2   
Vision, Mission and Objectives  
At the Department of Political Science and Public Management, our vision  is to become a nationally 
and internationally highly recognized research and education environment within political science , 
public management,  and journalism . To realize this, we aim  to excel at being innovative and to provide 
strong societal relevan ce through our  research and educational programmes . 
Our mission is to produce and disseminate high -quality research, to educate students with strong labour 
markets qualifications and to provide value to society through our research and teaching. To realize our 
mission, our overall department strategy aims to  achieve the four following objectives : 
• Produce high -quality and original research.  
• Maintain and further develop sustainable study programmes of high academic quality that 
create value to our students and society.  
 
• Strengthen the outreach of our research and our focus on high societal relevance.  
• Secure a motivating and inspiring work environment for all employees.  
Our four objectives are interconnected. Contributing to solving societal challenges is only possible 
through high -quality research. High -quality research is only valuable if it is disseminated to the 
relevant societal actors. Strong educational programmes build on high -quality research and focuses 
on societal relevant questions. Strong educational programmes lay the ground for maintaining and 
expanding our research environments. And finally, strong research, educations and outreach are 
only possible to achi eve if they build on a productive work environment, where all possible talents 
are developed, and all employees thrive and support each other. Employees  at the department will 
contribute to the strategy in different ways  to bring us closer to our objectives.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
3  Where  do we come from, and where we are ? 
Since 1998, the Department of Political Science and Public Management has expanded from a rather 
small department with one educational programme in Political Science to a large  department on several 
campuses with several daytime study programmes (Political Science and Social Science, Journalism, 
European Studies and International Security and Law) and professional master programmes (Master 
of Public Governance, Master of Public Management, and Master in Intell igence and Cyber Studies).  
 
As of January  2022, we have more than 1 30 employees with a rich variety of research topics and 
educational competencies, and we have more than 2500 students enrolled.  We consist of three  sections 
with different research and teaching portfolios. Our success is rooted in  our common  efforts to produce 
high-quality research, innovative study programmes as well as in our interest in answering real world 
research questions and interacting with relevant societal actors . We are characterized by a strong 
environment  that accommodates  a diversity of  theoretical, methodological, and interdisciplinary 
approaches . We strive  to take advantage of our diversity by collaborating  across sub -disciplines and 
developing all the talents among our employees. We believe this makes us stronger and more 
innovative in our work with research, education, and our interaction with society. Over the past 5 years  
we have  worked to develop our portfolio of focused and vibrant research collectives. This effort 
improved the quality and quantity of our research output significa ntly, which has been highly visible in, 
for example, the department’s overall BFI counts and our successful track record with funding.   
 
Where are we heading?  
We currently face several challenges related to resources and capacity. Still, high -quality research 
remains a key priority. Ground -breaking scholarship is increasingly conceived through cooperation 
rather than through individual scholars working alone. At  the department we are convinced that this 
approach will also support the most innovative ideas and strongest research environments in the 
future. In 2022 -2026 , we will therefore further strengthen our effort in developing focused and vibrant 
research coll ectives at the department. To do so,  we will continue to develop collective research 
agendas and projects, as well as international and cross -disciplinary cooperation. In addition, we will 
focus more on attracting external funding to support and consolidate these research agendas.   
 
We will also maintain and further develop attractive and financially sustainable research -based study 
programmes of high quality and societal relevance. In the coming years, we face restrictions on study 
admissions, which means that our economy to a larger  extent will be determined by our ability to retain 
students both in our full -time study programmes and in our professional master’s programmes. 
Therefore, we must adapt now to ensure that our study programmes are of the highest quality and 
thereby attract ive to students - and relatedly, that our students are attractive to the labour market. Our 
educational programmes provide important financial resources necessary to maintain staff volume 
and diverse competencies in our different research environments.  Therefore, we will explicitly prioritize 
teaching skills in recruitment and promotion decisions.   
 
We will also strengthen the outreach of our research and secure a high degree of societal relevance 
in our research agendas and educational programmes . We already have a strong track record when 
it comes to societal relevance, but we want to exploit this advantage further. We aim to be known as 
a department with especially high societal relevance. Therefore, we will work to disseminate our 
research in a more coherent and professional way as well as strengthen our connections with societal 
actors relevant fo r our research.  
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
4    
Finally, to secure a motivating and inspiring work environment for all employees, we aim for even 
stronger collaboration across the department’s sections and the secretariat when it comes to research, 
education, and societal outreach. We expect everyone to contribute to tasks across the sections and 
educational programmes and to our overall community. Furthermore, we can only reach our  full 
potential if we use and develop the talents of all our staff members. Our ambition is , therefore , to 
actively support everyone in achieving their best potential for developing their career regardless of 
gender, ethnicity, socio -economic background, s exual orientation, age, or how they practice their 
identity. We aim to be a department that is characterized by inclusiveness, transparency, plurality, and 
equality that can be an inspiration for others to follow.  
 
Towards 2026 , our efforts at the departmental level will, therefore, be guided by four key strategic 
priorities. We are also guided by other objectives (most of which are formulated at the level of section s 
or research collectives), but the following are the most important:  
 
• We will secure and strengthen our portfolio of high -quality research . We aim for strong 
research collectives where collaborations between several researchers produce innovative 
thinking, provide answers to relevant societal problems, secure external funding, and contribute 
to the development of early career scholars . 
• We will maintain and develop  a sustainable portfolio of study programmes of high quality 
and societal relevance.  We aim to explicitly prioritize excellent teaching skills, retain more 
students , and secure their employability . 
• We will strengthen the outreach of our research and focus on high societal relevance.  
We will work consciously  with societal relevance and outreach  in all our research groups and 
define several types of relevance that each group may contribute to society. We will put in an 
extra effort to interact with and disseminate our research to the societal actors relevant in all our 
research areas.  
• We will secure a motivating and inspiring work environment for all employees.  We aim to 
have a productive, transparent, supportive , and  inclusive work environment, where we benefit 
from working together across sections. We strive to use and develop the talents of all employees 
at the department.  
 
To reach these four strategic priorities, we need a strong and united department. We also need a work 
environment where employees are present at and committed to the department. All employees should 
be able to identify both with their research sections and  with the overall department. Thus, to secure 
that the department is an attractive workplace, we need to continuously nourish and support the 
department as a shared community.  
 
In the following sections , we will describe our work within the four main objectives in more detail:  
 
  
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
5  Research  
The Department of Political Science and Public Management consists of several well -established and 
highly internationalised research environments  (research sections and centres) . We strive towards 
high-quality research in all sections and centres. We will achieve this by securing funding for our 
research and by creating a research environment which is both stimulating, dynamic and cross -
disciplinary.  
 
We believe that a research environment should be characterized by curiosity and academic width and 
be capable of developing and adjusting to new challenges. Good research is research that is original, 
acknowledged by peers, and contributes to theoretical a nd practical developments within the targeted 
research fields. Good research is first and foremost driven by professional curiosity, academic skills, 
and the researcher’s inner motivation.  
 
Each section strives to produce research at the highest level within their respective research areas. 
The section  strategies describe how the section  defines high -quality research and how they work to 
achieve it. All researchers at the department aim to publish their research in international , leading 
academic journals (both general and field -specific journals) and with recognized publishers. We also 
publish our research with Danish publishers and in Danish journals, especially when it contributes to 
the Danish public debate and to reaching rel evant societal actors.  
 
We believe that high -quality research is easier to accomplish in collaborations among several  
researchers. We wish to take advantage of the variation across disciplines and produce new and 
original ideas that answer questions of societal relevance through interdisciplinary approaches. We will, 
therefore, encourage our  researchers to collaborate both within and across the departments’ sections 
and with other Danish and international researchers and networks. Th us, th e department will 
continuously work on supp orting and developing strong research collectives (both within the department 
and with external partners). As a part of this, we will support the development of early career scholars  
by including them in the different research collectives and networks in the sections.  
 
In addition t o secur ing a continuous development in our research environment, external funding will be 
a focus point in the coming years. Each section will strengthen and prioritize their efforts in securing 
external funding for larger research projects in the section. Furthermo re, we will work to strengthen our 
review processes to improve the quality of our research applications even further.  
 
Overall, we strive to be visible and recognized in the leading international research environments in our 
fields by producing high -quality and original research. To do so, we have the following aims:  
 
 
Aims  
• We will continue our strong publication records at the department and to further increase the level 
of publications  in the top journals at our targeted fields . 
• We will work to improve our success rate in securing external funding for larger research projects.  
• We will further develop  research collaborations at the department and with external actors . 
• We will support the development of early career scholars  in our research collectives.  
 
Actions  
The concrete actions needed to fulfil the aims differ between the sections, and are therefore specified 
in the respective section strategies. The head of department secures the implementation of the research 
strategy in close collaboration with the head s of sections.      
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
6  Education  
We have a wide and strong educational portfolio at the department that efficiently activates knowledge 
and provides value to the society: We provide classical research -based bachelor and master 
programmes as well as lifelong learning via professional master programmes and advanced courses 
targeted to professionals well underway in their careers.  
 
We continuously develop  our study programmes and courses to ensure that our educational activities 
are of high quality as well as societal relevance. To create the best conditions for learning, we  work 
with innovative teaching forms and course development , as well as  experiment intensively with 
digitalization of teaching tools.   
 
Our unique combination of study programmes gives  us a distinct profile as a department. The portfolio 
of programmes provides us with the opportunity to leverage synergies in this unique combination, for 
the collective advantage of both students and programmes . This entails  developing joint courses, joint 
teaching, new teaching approaches, as well as the continued development of the pedagogical skills of 
our lecturers.  
 
However, teaching activities across many programmes and the reduction in student intake due to 
regionalisation and employment outcomes challenge  department resources. We must, therefore, 
continually monitor our teaching obligations and the economy of all study programmes to ensure that 
we use our resources in the best way possible, always having the right competences among our 
teaching staff. The income from our educational activities is the department’s most essential means of 
income and provides the found ation for both the short -term and long -term economic health of the 
department.  
 
Aims  
• Maintain and further develop study programmes of high academic quality that create value to 
our students and society.  
• Explicitly prioritize excellent teaching skills and the teaching demands in our study programmes 
in hiring and promotion decisions.  
• Retain an increasing number of students and foster graduates’ employability . 
• Secure the economic sustainability of our study programmes and a fair distribution of resources 
between them.  
• Secure the ownership and responsibility in all study programmes, with a special focus on those 
programmes that are not anchored in one section.  
• Introduce an attractive and distinguished international master’s programme in political science 
located in Sønderborg.  
 
Actions  
The concrete actions needed to fulfil the aims differ between study programmes, and are therefore 
specified in the respective study programme parts and section strategies. The vice head of department 
secures the implementation of the educational strategy  in close collaboration with the heads of studies 
and programme responsibles .  
  
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
7  Societal relevance  
At the Department of Political Science and Public Management, we believe that our work should provide  
value to society . We address societal challenges in our research, and we have a strong track record in 
contributing to and interacting with society. Our research sections are actively working on strengthening 
societal relevance both in and via their research. We aim to fu rther coordinate, reinforce, and continually 
develop these efforts in the coming years.  
We will enhance our cooperation with principle societal actors  about societal issues. This could be in 
the form of direct collaborations about real -life problems or dissemination of relevant research . 
Furthermore, it is important to communicate our research to the broader public.  We also believe that 
our work with societal relevance should include reflections on possible practical translation and 
operationalisation of our academic insights, so it becomes easier for external actors to implement our 
knowledge. Consequently, we need to think about how we ask societal relevant questions in our 
research and how we interact with relevant societal actors, and at the same time adhere to the principles 
of scientific freedom and independence. Thus, we must continue to do and communicate our research, 
even if it goes against the conventional thinking in society.  We will also continue to cultivate and support 
the societal relevance of our study programmes by ensuring that the professional and academic 
competencies of our graduates are strong and match the demands of the labour market. Finally, we will 
work systematically to strengthen the communication of our work to the surrounding world through 
appropriate channels. This will require that we actively work to be part of the most important socie tal 
debates relevant to our research areas.  
Our work with societal relevance is a continuous effort. We will make a relevance report every second 
year that illustrates the diverse approaches to societal relevance at the department. Societal relevance 
will be defined and described by the research sec tions in this biennial report to document the ways in 
which each section contributes to this effort. This work will clarify what we already do, what works, and 
how to strengthen our efforts in the future.  
Aims:  
• Provide value to society  by actively taking part in the public debate and strengthening our 
collaboration with relevant societal actors.  
• Contribute to develop practical solutions in areas where our research is relevant by being a part of 
and influencing the processes where important decisions are made.  
• Work towards a stronger outreach strategy and support structure for increased communication 
within the department.  
 
Actions:  
• Write and update (every second year) a departmental relevance report  which describe tools for 
relevance in all larger activities/units (e.g. , professional master’s programmes, revenue -funded 
activities, study programmes, sections etc.). Based on this, we will identify and brand different 
approaches to societal relevance at the department.  
• Make contributions to societal relevance an explicit part of our Scholarly Qualification Matrix.  
• Train our researchers in the communication of their research in order for them to have a bigger 
impact in news media, social media, and other relevant communication and meeting forums.  
• Secure that all larger research projects have an outreach plan.  
• Provide staff the possibility of consulting with an expert on outreach . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
8  Work Environment, Gender and Equality  
A good working environment is the foundation of any successful organisation, and we strive for an 
intellectually stimulating and socially well -functioning workplace. We believe that the embrace of human 
diversity breeds innovation, and we believe that dive rsity cultivates a thriving working environment. It is 
our ambition to create a work environment that is characterized by collaboration, inclusiveness, 
transparency, plurality and equality, and which actively supports all members of staff regardless of 
gender, ethnicity, socio -economic background, sexual orientation, age or how they practice their 
identity. Overall, our vision is to have a department that supports everyone in achieving their best 
potential in the development of their career. At the core of our culture is the understanding that we can 
only reach our full potential when we use the talents of all and create a department that can be an 
inspiration for others to follow.   
 
An important part of a good work environment is to have clear goals and predictability in relation to 
expectations (e.g., expectations for career development  and workloads). We will , therefore,  continue 
our work in the sections to secur e continuous discussions about career development with the immediate 
manager  as well as  transparent and balanced teaching plans to create the conditions for an appropriate 
work -life balance for all employees . Collaboration and a sense of shared community will also be in focus 
both at the department and in the sections. We will work to support a shared identity, which 
distinguishes us as a department, and we will strengthen collaborations and knowledge exchange 
within and across the departments’ sections.  
 
To ensure the possibility and transparency of different career paths and equal measures of merit , the 
department will revise its Scholarly Qualification Matrix. We will increase transparency around the use 
of the matrix in hiring processes. Furthermore, we will institutionalize practices of mentoring within the 
department, in line with defined element s of ‘merit,’ for example, by giving early career scholars  the 
opportunity to take on tasks at the department that will benefit their career. The role of more  experienced 
staff will here be a supporting role. Thus, we strive for improved career counselling for early career  
scholars with a focus on supporting their development as independent scholars.  
 
Another important dimension in a good work environment is the gender and equality balance. The 
department has come a long way in the past five years in relation to this, and the previous strategy has 
contributed significantly to achieving a more gender -balanced department. We wish to build on our 
positive experiences and continue to address gender -related issues at the department. In 2021, we 
established a taskforce to discuss the issue of gender and equality at the department. The taskforce 
came up with se veral recommendations for action, and we will follow these as much as possible in the 
coming years. Thus, d uring 202 2-2026 , the department will widen the focus on issues related to gender 
and equality. We aim towards establishing family friendly policies, for example in relation to planning 
meetings and teaching obligations. The department will also increase its efforts to tak e active note of 
unconscious biases. Language is important across all communication channels, and we will promote 
an inclusive langua ge. The department will take action if employees and/or students treat and 
disrespect staff based on gender biases. We will not tolerate any form of sexual harassment or other 
forms of demeaning action and inappropriate behaviour at the department. We will  strive to ensure 
transparency and to maintain excellent data -records on gender and equality. To strengthen an inclusive 
work environment based on plurality and equal opportunities that support all staff in achieving their 
potential , we have the following aims:  
 
Aims:  
• To continuously secure transparency on workloads, decision -making and information relevant 
to employees work and career prospects (including gender statistics) .  
• To secure  a strong community and a shared identity at the department . 
• To institutionalize best practices of mentoring and career counselling to increase the 
independence of junior colleagues from older scholars.  
• To secure a department with a good gender and equality balance.  
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
9   
Actions:  
 
• Secure the possibility of continuous discussion with the head of section about career 
opportunities as well as  workloads (research expectations and teaching responsibilities)  for all 
employees.  
• Arrange social gatherings and professional events to support collaboration across the sections 
and secretariat and strengthen the community at the department.  
• Revise the Scholarly Qualification Matrix (clarifying  the understanding of ‘merit’ and ‘talent’ and 
emphasiz ing the possibility of diverse career paths ). 
• Increase focus on individual career planning and mentoring of early career scholars  (PhD, post 
doc, assistant professors and young associate professors) by institutionalizing a mid -way 
dialogue between PhD student and HoD and offer all early career scholars  a mentor . 
• Work to include junior researchers in work processes , applications and tasks  that may be 
beneficial for their career . 
• To implement recommendations from the taskforce of gender and equality as much as possible 
e.g.: 
o Work with unconscious bias training of both staff and students, and as a part of this 
promote an inclusive language.  
o Establish clear benchmarks for measuring equality and ensure  that a continuous 
collection of data is institutionalized and made publicly available  
o Put work environment, gender, and equality on the agenda at department and section 
meetings, and every other year evaluate the gender and equality status at the 
department.  
 
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
10  Sections and centres/groups  at the department  
 
 
 
 
  
 
You can find the strategies  of the sections  here. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Administration, Welfare and Politics
Public Administration 
Research GroupDanish Centre for Welfare 
Studies
International and Regional Politics
Center for War StudiesCentre for Border Region 
Studies
Journalism
Centre for JournalismMediernes Forsknings -og 
Innovationscenter
 
 
The Department of Political Science and Public Management  
Strategy 2022 -2026   
 
 
 
11  Study programmes at the department  
  
 
  
 
You can find all our educational strategies here. 
 
 Political 
Science 
(BSc & MSc)Social Science
(BSc & MSc)Bachelor in 
Journalism
Cand.mag.
(Journalism)Cand.public.
(Journalism)European 
Studies
(BSc)
International 
Security and 
Law (MSc)Master of 
Public 
Governance 
(FMOL)Master of 
Public 
Management 
(MPM)
Master in 
Intelligence 
and Cyber 
Studies (MICS)
