Strategic  
Plan 
2025
Content
Community Culture 04
Teaching 08
Research 12
Executive Education 16
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 20
Responsibility and Sustainability 24
International and Regional Engagement 28
Services and Resources 32
Vision «Integrative Business University»
Relevant to 
SocietyThinking and 
Acting  
IntegrativelyResponsible 
and  
EntrepreneurialLocally Rooted 
and Globally 
Connected
Community Culture
We make palpable efforts to strengthen our corporate identity both internally 
and externally by investing in the development and consolidation of our HSG 
community culture, which creates a sense of identity and is a decisive factor in 
our success.
Performance Areas
Teaching 
We are constantly 
developing our 
methods of teaching, 
ensuring that students 
gain all the skills 
they need to success -
fully help shape 
and participate in 
complex and dynamic 
environments.Research
We conduct 
impact-focused, 
cutting-edge research. 
By finding answers 
to urgent social 
problems, we are 
making a positive 
contribution to 
society.Executive Education
We help turn 
executive education 
students into 
responsible manage -
ment personalities 
and are a preferred 
partner for lifelong 
learning.
Overarching Areas
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
We see diversity as an opportunity, and as such, we practice an active 
inclusion policy backed by the entire University. Fairness and respect are 
core HSG values.
Responsibility and Sustainability
We live up to our social responsibility by broadly anchoring sustainability 
within our strategy and operations. 
International and Regional Engagement
We position ourselves as a globally networked business University, which sets 
international standards in several areas, while simultaneously creating clear 
added value for the region.
Functional Areas
Services and Resources
We develop our administrative and technical services in order to provide 
ongoing support to our core missions in teaching, research and executive 
education. 
Community Culture
From insight to impact.Teaching
Executive EducationResearchEquality, Diversity and InclusionResponsibility and SustainabilityInternational and Regional EngagementServices and ResourcesRelevant to  SocietyLocally Rooted and Globally Connected
 EntrepreneurialResponsible and  Thinking and Acting  Integratively
Integrative
Business
University
Foreword  
Founded as a business academy (Handels-
akademie) in 1898, our institution became the 
school of commerce (Handelshochschule), then 
the St.Gallen College (Hochschule St.Gallen), 
before finally becoming today’s University of 
St.Gallen in 1995. Just as they did in the past, these 
names reflect status, growth, new framework 
conditions and changing societal demands. And, 
just as we have kept our old abbreviation “HSG” , 
we have stayed true to our core principles. Since 
its foundation, our University has been committed 
to an integrative approach that we follow in 
teaching, research and executive education in 
equal measure. Accordingly, our Vision 2025 is 
rooted on a solid foundation: 
«As a leading business university, we set standards 
worldwide in research and teaching by promoting 
inclusive thinking, responsible action and promoting  
an entrepreneurial spirit of innovation in business  
and society.»
Staying true to our principles is not equivalent  
to stagnation or complacency. The changes  
to our name show that change has been a constant 
part of our history. In line with our Vision 2025,  
in 2017 we developed our Roadmap, which 
provides us with a guiding framework for all 
University-wide, action-focused decisions. Since 
this time, our University hasn’t simply remained 
a place of learning for economics, law and  
social sciences; with the establishment of the  
Joint Medical Master’s and the founding of  
the School of Computer Science, we have 
broadened the range of disciplines on offer  
at HSG.  
It is precisely when many changes have to  
be managed that an organisation reveals its  
strengths and weaknesses. Accordingly, it was 
time to transpose our Roadmap 2025 and our 
sub-strategies into a strategic plan, putting  
them in concrete terms in light of the past few 
years. We have set out our overarching strategic 
principles and goals in eight focal areas; we  
can see whether these have been met using our 
defined indicators of success. Our strategic plan  
is a flexible instrument that provides us with 
guidance at all levels of governance and forms  the basis upon which we can plan our immediate 
future. With the founding of the Vice President’s 
Board for Institutes & Executive Education, the 
governance of our University is now well 
equipped for the new challenges it faces. We have 
likewise set the course for the future in research 
and teaching. Thanks to the reorientation of  
our academic career pathways, we have become  
an even more attractive and competitive 
institution for a new generation of excellent 
researchers. We are constantly improving the 
framework conditions in order to allow impact-
focused, cutting edge research. Our goal here  
is not only to increase international recognition 
for our research, but also to ensure that it retains  
its roots in practice and has a positive social 
impact. The success of our research and work is 
ultimately measured by our contribution to 
society and whether we are addressing its most 
pressing issues.  
Our social responsibility also informs our strategy 
for teaching and executive education, through 
which we are teaching future and current decision 
makers about the consequences of their actions 
and providing them with the tools to act in a 
sustainable and ethical manner. To this end,  
we are creating an inspiring environment in the 
SQUARE Learning Centre, where we as a 
community, across generations and hierarchies, 
can work on solutions for tomorrow. The spirit  
of experimentation and innovation in the 
SQUARE is intended to influence the University 
as a whole and characterise our future Platztor 
campus. The University of St.Gallen’s greatest 
strength lies at the heart of our logo: individuals 
and society. This is precisely why we are setting  
a clear standard for our actions – “From insight  
to impact”.
Prof. Bernhard Ehrenzeller, President
3
Our community culture shapes our identity; 
it is the foundation of our activities and 
success. It comprises teaching staff, students, 
employees and alumni. It is based on shared 
values and combines our standards for 
excellence with humanity. Discourse and 
personal encounters stand at the centre  
of HSG culture; they build bridges and 
characterise our place of thinking. 
Particularly with regard to the growth of  
the University, our culture must be 
nurtured, consistently grounded and 
developed further.  Community Culture
4
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Identity-forming  
organisational culture
In keeping with our HSG Ethics Code and 
our corporate identity, the University of 
St.Gallen fosters an organisational culture 
that creates a sense of purpose and 
identity with common norms, values and 
goals. At the heart of this is continuous 
teaching and learning, mutual support 
and an aspiration to excellence. Through 
the involvement of the Student Union and 
encouraging student engagement, we 
enable our students to help shape their 
learning experience.
 –Our aspirations to excellence are 
evident in our continuous further 
development and innovation, as well  
as our efforts to be exceptional, with 
the goal of maintaining our position  
as a leading business University. 
 –We face the competition and live 
up to our pioneering aspirations by 
embodying entrepreneurial spirit. 
Through their engagement in clubs and 
societies, students are also able to gain 
extracurricular skills and experiences, 
which will be necessary for the leaders 
of the future.
 –The humanity expressed by mutual 
trust, appreciation, respect and team 
spirit defines our organisational 
culture. It manifests itself in the 
holistic, engaged and cooperative 
thoughts, work and actions of the  HSG community. We continually  
re-assess our activities on the basis  
of these values.
 –From the very beginning of their 
time at HSG, we encourage a culture 
of giving back and community 
engagement among our students, which 
is also embodied by our alumni. 
II.  Sense of community and  
culture of encounters
We strengthen our sense of community 
and create opportunities to meet in 
person to exchange ideas and to foster 
mutual understanding within a 
respectful culture of discussion.
 –We make better use of existing formats 
for exchange, in-person encounters 
and critical discussions by facilitating 
participation alongside professional, 
family and other private commitments. 
In addition, we establish new, creative 
formats for exchange.
 –We cultivate our culture of discussion 
to allow for more interactivity and 
interdisciplinary discourse by testing 
and implementing new methods and 
forms of dialogue.
 –We offer space for inspiring encounters. 
To this end, we have established the 
SQUARE – HSG’s learning centre – as 
a place of face-to-face encounters, 
creativity, curiosity, inspiration 
and interaction. In this way, we are 
fostering entrepreneurial behaviour 
and community engagement.
5
 –We are shaping internal and external 
communication in such a way that it 
strengthens professional and personal 
discourse, as well as a sense  
of belonging.
III.  Organisational culture  
as a foundation
We continue to institutionalise and 
cultivate our organisational culture. In 
this way, we retain our identity, honour 
the pledge “From insight to impact”  
with the involvement of all stakeholder 
groups, working together on the basis of 
trust and achieving our strategic goals.
 –By teaching awareness about questions 
of cultural development at all levels of 
the University, through the involvement 
of management and the voluntary 
social engagement of students, we 
shape our organisational culture and 
help create a sense of identity around 
the University.
 –We identify any areas requiring 
improvement within our organisational 
culture proactively, with the help of 
a lived feedback culture and through 
objective stocktaking, along with the 
inclusion of external perspectives.
6
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  We have undertaken a multi-perspective, 
thesis-based analysis for defining  
the need for action with regard to  
our organisational culture.  The HSG Ethics Code and our brand 
relaunch have been introduced and 
implemented successfully. This has 
contributed to strengthening our 
corporate identity and had an internal 
and external impact. (Even more so  
than before) our brand image lives up  
to our pledge “From insight to impact”.
7
We continue to develop our teaching 
methods, to ensure that our students 
acquire the skills they need to shape the 
future. In so doing, we take into account 
scientific insights, developments in the 
economy and society, the demands of  
the working world and the needs of our 
students. We foster the sustainable 
development of expertise, in line with  
the challenges of complex, dynamic 
environments, geared toward structured 
knowledge, cognitive skills and attitudes. 
In shaping our study programmes we 
facilitate individual development and 
collaborative learning.Teaching
8
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
1. Future-proof teaching
HSG develops trustworthy entrepren- 
eurial personalities, who will master the 
challenges of the future and help  
shape society through innovative, 
integrative and sustainable thinking and 
action. In our teaching and learning 
programmes, we also take into account 
the cultivation of skills which will  
enable our students to continue learning 
throughout their lives and shape their 
individual educational biographies.
 –We develop leadership skills through 
our integrative teaching approach, for 
example, by fostering the Contextual 
Studies courses in responsibility, 
technology and media within our 
programmes, in addition to focusing 
on teaching the skills needed for 
responsible action and management.
 –We implement the guiding principle  
of a research-based education rooted  
in practical work by having outstanding 
guest lecturers with practical experience 
complement the teaching of regular 
research-strong HSG teaching in a 
balanced ratio. HSG alumni help us to 
find suitable guest lecturers. 
 –Our didactics and methods in teaching 
are learning goal oriented, and we  
create resources that promote learning 
and effectively support the  
sustainable development of expertise 
among students.2.  Digital transformation  
and innovation
Digital transformation is a chance for  
the further development and innovation 
of teaching, the foundation of which is  
built by in-person teaching on campus. 
We create innovative study program- 
mes tailored to the needs of students  
and society using a blended learning
approach. The encouragement of inter-
action through various media and 
modalities takes a central role here. 
 
 –We develop a strategy for strengthen-
ing teaching and learning innovations 
in addition to facilitating their disse- 
mination among faculty.
 –We implement our guiding principle  
of “digitally enhanced in-person 
learning” , by purposefully enriching 
our teaching methods with specific 
digital elements. The ability of faculty 
to choose impact-focused methods 
plays a key role here. 
 –We optimise and digitalise study-
adjacent processes and services, 
gearing these toward new forms  
of teaching and learning.
 –We are realising the vision of HSG’s 
learning centre SQUARE, as a 
bridge-builder between generations, 
disciplines, theory and practice, as  
well as a place of participation for 
students, faculty, alumni and citizens.  
SQUARE is also designed to act as a 
field of experimentation for new forms 
of communal learning and as  
9
a catalyst for future teaching methods. 
An artistic director-style manage- 
ment unites the innovative teaching  
programme with the entrepreneurial  
and institutional development of  
the University. 
3.  Interconnecting teaching 
and learning opportunities, 
organisational learning 
Our academic programmes have discrete 
profiles and are led by professionals. 
They are geared towards training current 
and future professionals and managers 
who are capable of dealing with the 
current and future challenges posed  
by a rapidly changing world. Programme 
development focuses on the systematic, 
comprehensive development of expertise 
and enables students to develop their own  
individual skills profiles.
 –We develop and enhance our study 
programmes by curating different 
course formats, strengthening 
integrative elements and expanding the 
choice of electives to help build  
our students’ profiles.
 –We strengthen programme leadership 
and establish overarching programme 
management to develop our curricula 
further. We provide leadership-relevant 
information, thereby strengthening 
transparency in the management of our 
teaching, which in turn enables better 
coordination and governance. –We support organisational learning by 
facilitating exchanges between faculty, 
programmes and Schools, as well as 
between undergraduate and graduate 
and executive education.
 –We strive to achieve a holistic increase 
in the quality of our teaching, which 
can be measured in the ratio  
of staff to students, as well as in  
course evaluations.
10
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  We strive to ensure that our academic 
programmes reach top positions in the 
relevant rankings. 
  Students attest to the excellent standard 
of teaching at HSG, which is evident in 
very positive course evaluations results.  HSG graduates enjoy an excellent 
reputation thanks to their knowledge  
and skills. They are in high demand in 
post-graduate programmes and on the 
employment market – nationally and 
internationally.
11
As an integrative, internationally 
networked business University, we 
conduct impact-focused, cutting-edge 
research, which deals with fundamental 
social, economic and entrepreneurial 
phenomena. By finding answers to 
fundamental problems, we are making a 
positive contribution to society. We are at 
the forefront of international research  
in selected fields.Research
12
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Developing impact-focused, 
cutting-edge research
We support researchers over the  
long term on an academic, structural, 
cultural and personal level to ensure  
that their research activities are perceived 
as leading in their respective fields and 
the results of their work become 
internationally recognised. We foster 
cutting-edge research with a practical 
impact – be that in a regional, industry 
or subject-specific context. 
 –We encourage, develop and inspire 
young researchers in various ways,  
one of which is academic mentoring.
 –We have an internationally compatible 
tenure-track-system with transparent 
career paths and promotion criteria.  
In addition, we are investigating 
the idea of establishing a graduate 
school for doctoral students who wish 
to pursue a career in academia. In 
cooperation with the Grants Office,  
we are working on increasing our 
rate of success in funding research 
nationally and internationally  
and are offering our own HSG  
funding programmes.
 –We foster a culture of intellectual 
curiosity with interdisciplinary  
series of lectures by supporting 
informed dialogue among re- 
searchers and renewing the  
research platform “ Alexandria”.  –We maintain a high standard for our 
recruitment process and welcome 
services for our academic personnel. 
We offer an exciting campus life,  
in addition to a healthy working en- 
vironment for our researchers and 
encourage their social integration. 
II.  Research that aspires  
to excellence
We conduct research in line with the 
latest methods and theoretical standards. 
We are active in international research 
communities, where we set standards,  
by which we increase the reach of  
our research. 
 –We promote international exchange 
through the participation of our 
researchers in scientific congresses, 
symposia, workshops and conferences 
or through the provision of funding  
for the organisation of such events.
 –We incentivise the publication  
of our researchers’ work and publishing 
more frequently in leading academic 
journals, conference proceedings and 
monographs. In addition, we are active 
as peer reviewers and editors of  
leading journals.
 –We participate in leading academies 
and academic societies. 
 –We cultivate interdisciplinary dialogue 
with the goal of deepening and 
broadening the understanding of 
socially relevant questions.  
 
13
III.  Research with a  
social impact
We conduct impact-focused, cutting-edge 
research, which deals with fundamental 
social, economic and ecological pheno-
mena. We dedicate ourselves to promising 
research topics with a high potential to 
uncover new insights and answers. In 
doing so we take into consideration the 
multifaceted nature of the phenomena 
that characterise the majority of our 
research fields. 
 
 –We draft collaborative, interdisciplinary 
research projects and are successful 
in our applications for third-party 
funding. We either lead the projects 
ourselves or collaborate in them.
 –In communicating the results 
of our research, we aim for clarity  
and relevance.
14
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  Consistent and high-quality introduction 
of the tenure-track-system.
  Maintaining the impact of HSG research 
by the further improvement of its  
quality and international connectivity  
and acclaim.  Cutting-edge research is attractive for 
our faculty members and Institutes,  
and is encouraged using financial and  
time incentives.
15
We help turn our executive education 
participants into responsible leadership 
personalities, who can master the 
challenges of a dynamic world, manage 
themselves, their teams and organisations 
successfully and create value for society. 
Thanks to our role as pioneers in relevant 
economic topics, a constantly developing 
executive education portfolio and a  
focus on general management, we are  
a preferred partner for lifelong learning.Executive Education
16
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Cooperation and governance  
in executive education
We live up to our decades-long reputation 
by continuously developing our expertise 
in the education of professionals working 
in managerial and executive roles. We  
are optimising our governance structures 
in order to implement our executive 
education strategy. In the future we plan 
to invest (even more) in the collaboration 
of all executive education providers at 
HSG. In this way, we are creating a 
common understanding of high quality 
and consistent customer focus, while  
also strengthening our social network. 
 –In the spirit of lifelong learning, we 
offer a diversified executive education 
programme for all career levels  
and phases. 
 –We follow an integrated  
governance model with an Executive  
Education Committee.
 –We are creating collaboration platforms 
in executive education in order to learn 
from one another and create trust.
 –We are examining the use of synergies 
through “minimal” consolidation,  
common standards and centrally 
coordinated units.
 –We are striving towards an innovative, 
coherent and customer-focused 
portfolio in the area of open enrolment.
 –We are optimising our pricing models; 
in so doing, we take into account the regional and international sub-markets, 
relevant target management groups 
and profitability. 
II.  Further development of the 
programme portfolio
We offer a broad range of research-  
and evidence-based executive education 
programmes for various career levels, 
management functions and industries.  
In order to address strong market 
pressure, we are constantly reviewing  
our executive education programmes  
and are committed to continuous further 
development and innovation. In 
particular, we are expanding our position 
on the market through additional 
programmes for members of executive 
boards and boards of directors.
 –We offer a series of programmes for 
top managers of large multinational 
businesses in Europe. As part of this 
series, we are working together with 
current and former members of 
executive boards.
 –We are boosting our MBA and EMBA 
formats and developing these  
further in cooperation with leading  
partner institutions.
 –We are expanding our range of 
modular executive education 
programmes specialised in relevant 
fields and industries, up to and 
including potential Executive  
Master’s and/or MAS degrees. 
17
 –We are strengthening our expertise 
in implementing company-specific 
programmes.
III.  Faculty development for 
executive education
For our customers, evidence-based 
knowledge, new insights and expertise 
in implementing managerial tasks take 
precedence. We are strengthening our 
executive education faculty to ensure that 
participants in these courses are able to 
develop technical and management skills. 
 
 –We encourage the recognition of faculty 
engagement in executive education 
programmes, in line with the planned 
inclusion of executive education in 
HSG’s core mission under the revised 
University of St.Gallen Act.
 –We are developing a coaching/
onboarding programme for  
academic faculty.
 –We implement the guiding principle  
of a research-based education  
rooted in practical work by having 
outstanding guest lecturers with 
practical experience complement  
the teaching of our research-strong 
faculty in a balanced ratio. HSG  
alumni help us to find suitable  
guest lecturers. 
 –We are striving to build a faculty  
of regular teaching staff with relevant 
practical experience, comprised of  
former top managers.
18
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  Positive ranking results in the FT 
Executive Education Rankings and high 
customer satisfaction in addition to 
retention among executive education 
participants.  Successful introduction of a 
comprehensive system of governance  
for executive education.  
  Development of additional programmes 
for members of executive and director’s 
boards as well as implementing 
innovations.
19
In the pursuit of excellence, fairness  
and conscientiousness, we view equality, 
diversity and inclusion as holistic and 
interdisciplinary cornerstones. We 
embody a culture of value and respect  
and see diversity as an advantage.Equality, Diversity  
and Inclusion 
20
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Embedding equality, diversity 
and inclusion in our structures 
and culture
HSG embodies a community culture, 
which creates a sense of identity, based  
on equality, diversity and inclusion. We 
are constantly reviewing and improving 
our structures.
 –We are working towards a quota of 30 
per cent female representation among 
University leadership and in the senior 
management of HSG Services as well 
as among all professors and regular 
teaching staff. We will achieve this by 
constantly developing our recruiting 
and promotion processes and through 
better retention of existing staff.
 –We are also increasing the proportion 
of female students and doctoral 
students. Our efforts here are based 
on the average percentage of women 
in Economic Sciences at other Swiss 
universities. To this end, we are 
cultivating a welcoming culture  
for female students and are  
targeting women directly in our 
student marketing.
 –We foster an inclusive culture for 
students and employees with special 
needs and provide appropriate support 
on an individual basis. In addition,  
we are taking steps to ensure that our  campus is as accessible as possible.
 –We are raising awareness for the  
needs of the LGBTIQ community  
and developing inclusion measures.
 –We encourage the use of  
inclusive language.
 –We strive to achieve harmony and 
balance between family and care 
responsibilities in all our employment 
and study relationships. We use 
the standards of family orientation 
contained in the “Family in Higher 
Education Charter” as a model here.
 –We consciously promote diversity, take 
action against discrimination and are 
developing measures to ensure that 
HSG is a higher education institution 
that is intolerant of racism and well-
versed in all aspects of diversity.
 –The quality of our performance in the 
areas mentioned above is safeguarded 
through ongoing re-evaluation.
21
II.  Equal opportunities and respect 
for all members of University
Fairness and respect are central values  
of HSG. All members of the University 
are able to benefit from the same 
opportunities. Only people who feel  
that they are valued and treated fairly  
can discover their full potential.
 –We ensure and protect the personal 
safety, integrity and value of all 
members of our University.
 –We foster equal opportunities in  
a way that facilitates all aspects of 
diversity (age, gender, ethnicity, 
religion, disability, sexual orientation, 
education, and national origin).
 –We offer coordinated consultation  
on all topics named here.
III.  Equality, diversity and inclusion 
in teaching, research and 
executive education
The quality of teaching and research  
is measured by the extent to which it 
encourages equality, diversity and 
inclusion. An inclusive approach to 
diversity in all areas of the University 
increases our ability to innovate and  
stay competitive. Diversity as a holistic 
and deep-rooted interdisciplinary 
cornerstone also informs the perception 
of our social responsibility and the 
awareness of socio-political challenges. –We embed and promote diversity 
appropriately in teaching, research  
and executive education.
 –We acknowledge the uniqueness 
and potential of every single person, 
irrespective of any physical or mental 
obstacles they may face (DiversAbility), 
in teaching, research and executive 
education, and we sensitise our faculty 
to the requirements of our students 
with special needs.
 –We engage in dialogue with 
stakeholders in and outside of the 
University regarding equality,  
diversity and inclusion.
22
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  Defining a strategy to increase female 
representation among faculty (goal: 30 
per cent female professors across all 
levels), on the President’s Board and in 
the senior management of HSG Services. 
  Advances in being cognisant of the reality 
of life for members of the University with 
special needs.  Developing academic specialisations in 
the areas of equality, diversity and 
inclusion in the core disciplines, in 
academic programmes and in research.
23
As a leading, integrative business University, 
we live up to our social responsibility by 
broadly anchoring the idea of sustainability 
across the organisation within HSG’s 
strategy and operations. Based on the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  
this encompasses the integration of 
environmental problems such as climate 
change and the loss of biodiversity, in 
addition to the sustainable handling of 
resources on campus and in its environs. 
HSG must not only lead by example,  
but also ensure its graduates are adequately 
prepared to become entrepreneurial 
leaders, who will take on responsibility in a 
world which, among other things, must deal 
with significant environmental problems.Responsibility and 
Sustainability 
24
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Curricular and co-curricular 
integration of sustainability
By signing the SDG Accord in 2019, HSG 
has committed to further integrating 
sustainability into its curriculum. We  
are expanding our academic offerings  
to include sustainability across all levels  
and in all disciplines, while simultan-
eously promoting corresponding co-
curricular activities.
 –In order to integrate sustainability  
into existing programmes and courses,  
we are taking steps to ensure our 
faculty is familiar with the topic by 
integrating a sustainability module 
into the CAS programme in higher 
education didactics, in addition  
to offering independent sustainability 
training for faculty members and 
programme heads.
 –We promote the topic of sustainability 
in the respective curricula through 
the use of awards/prizes to incentivise 
relevant innovations and developments.
 –In cooperation with HSG alumni we 
are developing a mentoring program-
me that connects students  
with sustainability specialists who  
 have practical experience in the field.
 –Our Career & Corporate Services 
highlight career paths in the area  
of sustainability. –We are implementing a campus credit 
system for co-curricular activities 
centred on sustainability.
II.  Excellence in sustainability 
research
We are making sustainability into  
a leading, interdisciplinary research  
focus. Various institutes and chairs  
are cooperating in researching 
sustainable development and  
providing answers from a variety  
of perspectives.
 –We recruit and train personnel  
with sustainability expertise in all  
academic disciplines.
 –We are developing and cultivating 
 a network for employees, who teach  
and research sustainability topics  
(as precursors to an interdisciplinary 
research centre for sustainability).
 –We are organising research-relevant 
events and establishing networks  
in the area of sustainability. 
 –We are investing in data resources  
to facilitate excellent research in  
the area of sustainability.
25
III.  Sustainable campus
We are striving for a carbon neutral 
campus by 2030, incorporating all its 
physical and administrative activities  
and processes, and making sustainability 
widely visible.
 –We are implementing an automatic  
CO₂ system.
 –We are establishing CO ₂ neutrality 
criteria in the areas of mobility, IT,  
food, buildings and infrastructure,  
and raising all our employees’ 
awareness in terms of how to 
implement them.
 –We are supporting the global  
SDG strategy with our financial  
investment strategy.
 –We are building a sustainable 
infrastructure on campus and  
involving students in existing 
initiatives for sustainable  
campus development.
 –We form contacts and cooperate  
with relevant stakeholder groups  
to develop a high-performance,  
long-term sustainability network.
 –We are incorporating the  
sustainability strategy into  
our HSG service mandate.
26
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  Workshops/training for embedding 
sustainability into existing courses  
and programmes, as well as for  
the development of new courses,  
have been carried out. Career paths,  
campus credits and a mentoring 
programme relating to sustainability  
have been established.  New faculty members from various 
disciplines in the area of sustainability 
have been appointed and incorporated 
into a University-wide network  
(as a precursor to an interdisciplinary 
research centre for sustainability.
  An automated CO 2 foot printing system 
has been implemented and measures  
to reduce the CO 2 footprint have  
been defined.
27
We position ourselves as a globally 
networked business University, which sets 
international standards in several areas, 
while simultaneously creating clear added 
value for the region. In addition, we are 
improving our international acclaim, 
alongside our community engagement at 
an international and regional level. The 
goal is to make international contacts of 
the University available to our students 
and researchers, as well as to the region. International and 
Regional Engagement
28
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  An international focus in 
teaching, executive education 
and research
We develop students with a high degree 
of intercultural competence. We allow  
all students and staff to gain experiences 
abroad and profile HSG as an  
extremely appealing University on  
the international stage.
 –We increase our international brand 
presence in order to gain “high-
potential talent” from around the 
globe, thereby strengthening the inter-
national character of our campus.
 –We improve the exchange programmes 
for guest students and place a greater 
focus on their learning experience. We 
are making suitable accommodation 
available in the city of St.Gallen. 
 –We support the international mobility 
of our students, faculty members  
and employees at all levels.
 –We use our HSG institutes abroad 
as satellites to give our students 
and researchers the opportunity to 
familiarise themselves with other 
cultures and international markets.
 –We engage in selected international 
partnerships, accreditations and 
rankings to further our reputation.
 –We coordinate our academic activities 
in key regions, in which we form work groups, which pursue new  
opportunities for cooperation.
II.  Activation of international  
HSG networks for the region
We strengthen the region by increasing 
its international standing, making our 
knowledge regionally available, as well  
as engaging with the community on a 
social and cultural level, including our 
own educational and cultural offerings.
 –We are increasing our involvement in 
international networks and strategically 
important regions and are also using 
our international alumni clubs to  
this end. 
 –We are fostering the regional system  
of knowledge by tackling regional 
topics, making our knowledge 
accessible and communicating the 
results of our research, incorporating 
regional players into our international 
cooperative efforts and safeguarding 
the exchange of knowledge and 
technology within the region. 
 –Thanks to reports and expert 
interviews in leading international 
media outlets and publications, we are 
increasing the international visibility  
of HSG and the St.Gallen region. 
29
III. Regional impact of HSG
We are safeguarding St.Gallen as an 
educational location in the long term  
and contributing to the creation of 
economic and social value in the region. 
As an important regional player, we 
contribute to key issues, while focusing 
on maintaining and consolidating 
collaborative relationships.
 –We are investing in the attractiveness  
of St.Gallen as a centre of business by 
contributing to regionally significant 
local initiatives and acting as a reliable 
point of contact to this end.
 –We are increasing the residential 
presence in St.Gallen with students, 
researchers and employees.
 –We are cooperating with regional 
businesses and helping them to access 
international markets, a task which is 
supported by the efforts of our alumni.
 –We are increasing our impact on 
the cantonal employment market by 
developing teaching and executive 
education programmes in line with 
regional requirements. 
 –We support HSG spin-offs that are 
based in the region. 
 –We are strengthening our regional 
networks through the development  
of dialogue between academia, politics, 
business and society on important 
topics and through the initiation  
and supervision of social and  
societal innovations.  –We make HSG’s various contributions 
to the positioning of the city and 
Canton of St.Gallen visible and convey 
an attractive image of the region.
30
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  The offer of accommodation for students 
in the vicinity of the campus has been 
adequately expanded, is attractively 
priced and is evaluated highly by the  
majority of students.
  Our students benefit from tailor-made 
programmes, which are successfully  
offered by our HSG hubs in Singapore 
and Latin America.  Modern, informative formats for 
transferring knowledge and technology, 
in addition to various points of contact, 
have been established and are well  
known in the region.
  Start-ups based in the region in which 
HSG graduates are involved have 
increased the creation of added value  
in the region.
31
The University of St.Gallen is continuously 
developing its technical and administrative 
services (HSG Services) in order to better 
fulfil its core mission. In so doing, we are 
conscious of the specific framework 
conditions as a public organisation and  
are cognisant of the concerns of our 
stakeholder groups.Services and 
Resources
32
Strategic Plan
What we focus on
I.  Strengthening the processes, 
organisation and governance  
of HSG Services
We are reviewing the processes/
procedures, organisation and governance 
of our administrative units with regard  
to fitness for purpose and future viability, 
and are implementing developments 
where needed. In so doing, we are guided 
by the organisational understanding  
of a competence centre that enables and 
supports the implementation of the 
University's mission.
 –We are ensuring the participation of 
the relevant stakeholder groups in the 
process of revising the University of 
St.Gallen Act and statutes, in order to 
create a targeted, forward-thinking  
and viable legal basis, which  
affords HSG the necessary leeway  
for further development.
 –We are modernising HSG’s services 
in consideration of the opportunities 
and challenges presented by digital 
transformation, ensuring that they 
can serve beyond HSG as a model of 
modern University administration in 
accordance with the principles of  
smart government.
 –We ensure all of our administrative 
processes are user orientated across all 
organisational units and, in so doing, we increase efficiency, effectiveness 
and agility.
II.  Digital transformation and 
changing challenges 
We are driving the digital transformation 
across our entire organisation. This takes 
place within the scope of a comprehen-
sive change process, which goes beyond 
the (technical) digitalisation of processes 
and solutions and is in large part linked 
to a cultural change in the work process.
 –Our working conditions, resources  
and compensation models are geared 
toward the requirements of a tradi- 
tional campus University, our 
“Cooperation Guidelines” and the 
changing requirements relating 
to digital transformation and the 
sustainability strategy, which must 
be met to ensure that our services  
can be provided on a flexible basis. 
 –We are strengthening the development 
and use of data-based decision  
and management instruments for 
supporting our core and  
management processes.
 –We are consolidating our IT 
environment on dominant systems  
in accordance with the platform 
principle and are operating these  
on the basis of the competence centre 
approach. We exploit the newest 
practices and solutions and adapt  
33
these to suit our various needs.
 –We are consolidating and harmonising 
our system landscape in compliance 
with regulatory requirements and in  
so doing are strengthening the focus  
of information security and  
data protection.
III.  Cumulative, public and self-
sustained financing 
Over the longer and medium term, we  
are striving to achieve balanced and 
responsible financing, which allows  
us to fulfil our remit with regard to 
owner strategy, University Act and  
vision, strategic plan, roadmap and 
service mandate.
 –As part of the development of the 
cantonal ownership strategy, we are 
balancing our own aspirations with  
the political goals. From these, we  
have derived the service contract  
with the cantonal sponsorship for 
the period 2023–2026. 
 –We are finalising and implementing 
our third-party funding strategy and 
our research funding strategy. These 
strategies specify the type, scope  
and application of all third-party 
funding at HSG. 
 –Through the implementation of 
the executive education strategy, 
we are generating funding for the 
implementation of the profiling and 
excellence strategy at the University. 
 –We are implementing a new 
replacement investment plan,  which combines financial processes 
with strategic priorities.
 –We provide our services on a  
subsidiary basis, so that the chairs 
and institutes can secure financial 
opportunities by acting (partly) 
autonomously, in harmony with  
the purpose of the University and  
any legal or regulatory requirements.
34
Strategic Plan
Criteria for success by 2025
  A lean service structure is in place,  
which is recognised as competent, 
innovative and service-orientated.
  Processes and systems are organised in 
accordance with the smart government 
principles, in addition to the principle of 
subsidiarity and guarantee a smooth, 
clearly regulated operation in line with 
legal requirements.  Basic public funding, as well as 
competitively raised public and private 
funds, safeguard our desired international 
research and educational excellence.
35
From insight 
to impact.
unisg.ch
