
Page       01   02BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
CONTENTS
03      Foreword from the       
             Leadership
05      Strategic Vision
06      Strategic Missions
- Academic Disciplines
- Student Success
- Faculty and Staff
- Research and Innovation
- Global Impact
- BJUT Values
- University Governance
21      BJUT's Passion03      Foreword from the       
05      Strategic Vision05      Strategic Vision05      Strategic Vision
06      Strategic Missions06      Strategic Missions
21      BJUT's Passion
FOREWORD FROM
THE LEADERSHIP
Becoming a world-class university is the 
centenary goal of BJUT. As the 14thFive-Year 
Plan (2021-2025) for National Economic and 
Social Development and the Long-Range 
Objectives Through the Year 2035 promulgated 
by the central government of China states, 
China needs to “push forward the classiﬁ  ed 
management of higher education and the 
comprehensive reform of institutions of higher 
learning”, “build first-class universities and 
disciplines in different categories” and “support 
the development of high-level research-
intensive universities”. Guided by this vision, 
the 14th Five-Year period (2021-2025) is key to 
BJUT's continuous efforts towards becoming a 
world-class university.
Looking back, during the 13th Five-Year period, 
through the joint efforts of faculty, staff, and students, BJUT has maintained its position as 
one of the nation’s top universities and colleges 
and developed itself into an internationally 
renowned, distinctive and high-level research 
university. At present, six of BJUT’s disciplines 
have been included in the top 1% of the ESI 
Rankings, and one included in the “Double 
First Class” initiative (the World First-class 
University and First-class Academic Discipline 
Construction Plan). BJUT has created a 
distinctive discipline structure featuring 
“first-class engineering, advanced science, 
distinctive humanities, and reﬁ  ned arts". Talent 
cultivation and scientiﬁ  c research have also 
seen steady progress. Today, while improving 
its internal governance, BJUT is undergoing a 
transformation that will lay a solid foundation 
for its work in the next ﬁ  ve years.Taking into account the reality and needs in the 
new period, the University has formulated the 
BJUT 2021-2025 Strategic Plan, which speciﬁ  es 
that BJUT must follow the principle of “Rooted 
in Beijing, Serving Beijing, Inspiring China 
and Embracing the World”, and strive to build 
BJUT into “a high-level research university”, 
leveraging its prominent advantages in 
discipline conﬁ  guration, scientiﬁ  c research and 
talent training, aiming to produce top-notch 
students and first-class academic outcomes. 
For this purpose, “High-quality” is the keyword. 
BJUT will continue to provide efﬁ  cient, fair, 
and high standard services, pursue sustainable 
development, and endeavor to realize its goals 
in the seven aspects of academic disciplines, 
student success, faculty and staff, research and 
innovation, global impact, BJUT values, and university governance. Empowered by the four 
strategies of “Promoting Vigorously Innovation, 
Expanding Talent Pool, Advancing External 
Cooperation, and Serving Social Development”, 
BJUT serves the capital city’s major needs for 
innovative and high-quality development, and 
strive to make substantial contributions for the 
capital city and the country as a whole.
Standing at a new starting point, BJUTers 
will carry the University forward with higher 
ambition, a broader vision, and redoubled 
efforts. Through continuous hard work, BJUT 
will realize the centenary dream of becoming a 
world-class university with its own distinctive 
features!Build 7 first-classAdhere to 4 
development strategies “Promoting Vigorously Innovation, 
Expanding Talent Pool,
 Advancing External Cooperation, and 
Serving Social Development”,“Rooted in Beijing, Serving Beijing, Inspiring 
China and Embracing the World”
7 4To build a "high-level 
research university"Highlight the main 
line of "high-quality 
development"
BJUT Page       03   04BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
Nie Zuoren
President of 
BJUTJiang Zeting
Secretary of CPC
BJUT Committee

Page       05   06BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUTSTRATEGIC VISION
OBJECTIVE
GOALSThe 14th Five-Year plan marks the start-up period of the second phase of BJUT's "Three-Step 
Strategy" towards becoming a world-class university. Adhering to the principle of “Rooted in 
Beijing, Serving Beijing, Inspiring China and Embracing the World”, the University will strive to 
build BJUT into “a high-level research university” that ranks in the top 50 universities in China with 
remarkable improvements in its comprehensive capabilities and global impact.  Serving Social Development. Aiming at developing world-leading technologies, promoting 
sustainable economic development, safeguarding the well-being of China and its people, and catering 
for the needs of the country and the capital city, BJUT need to optimize the discipline structure and 
develop the research and talent training system. To achieve this, the University will carry out practically-
orientated cross-disciplinary research as a way to produce versatile, innovative and talented individuals 
able to meet the practical needs of society.   
STRATEGIC MISSIONS
In a bid to become a high-level research university, BJUT will strive for excellence in seven areas in 
the period 2021 to 2025, these being its academic disciplines, the success of students, the faculty 
and staff, research and innovation global impact, BJUT’s values, and University governance. 
To develop a set of first-class disciplines at the forefront of 
international visionACADEMIC DISCIPLINESSTRATEGIES
Promoting Vigorously Innovation. Innovation is regarded as the primary driving force for high-
quality development. Driven by innovation, BJUT will inject fresh impetus into the improvement of 
its internal governance system and the overall reform of talent assessment and training, academic 
research and funding. 
Expanding Talent Pool. Talented individuals are crucial for the University  BJUT will lay equal stress 
on talent cultivation and talent acquisition. As well as recruiting more top-level talents, the University 
will create academically innovative teams led by them while ensuring their greater autonomy over the 
human resources, funds, facilities and technologies they require. The University will also establish a 
multi-dimensional system for the better evaluation, respect and care for such talents.  
Advancing External Cooperation. BJUT will actively explore domestic and overseas resources. 
Benefiting from the dividends of national, industrial, and regional development, the University will 
expand its outreach in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and to the Yangtze River Delta, deepen 
cooperation with businesses in various sectors, and make inroads into new ﬁ  elds such as carbon-
neutrality and the digital economy. At the same time the University will seek more global partners, 
deepening and broadening its cooperation with higher education institutions worldwide and 
increasing the global impact through the internationalization of the training of talented individuals. • Civil Engineering, Environmental Science and 
Engineering will maintain their position as 
first-class disciplines in China
• Materials Science and Engineering, Control 
Science and Engineering will be promoted to 
narrow the gap between them and first-class 
disciplines in China
• Optical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering 
will continue to be strengthened as candidates 
for becoming first-class disciplines
• Other disciplines will show signiﬁ  cantly improved rankings in the national assessment 
of disciplines
• The number of disciplines entering the top 1%
of ESI Rankings will be increased to 9 or 10
• 3 to 5 ﬁ  rst category disciplines offering 
doctoral degrees will become first-class 
disciplines in China; 4 or 5 ﬁ  rst category 
disciplines offering doctoral degrees will 
become candidates for first-class disciplines
• 2 or 3 inﬂ  uential projects in the humanities 
and social sciences will be developed
Page       07   08BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
To Construct A First-class University 
and First-class Disciplines
BJUT will continue to build itself into a first-class 
university with the formation of a distinctive and 
dynamic first-class discipline conﬁ  guration which will 
inspire innovation. Focusing on major technological 
and academic trends in national development, BJUT 
will continue to develop its strengths in high-tech, 
frontier, and emerging disciplines, and develop more 
key and core technologies.
To Advance Discipline 
Classiﬁ  cation and Interdisciplinary 
Development
BJUT will classify the disciplines into four categories: 
high-level disciplines with world-class potential; 
candidates for becoming first-class disciplines; 
fundamental disciplines; and other disciplines with 
distinguishable BJUT features.   
BJUT will create a new interdisciplinary mechanism to 
serve large-scale projects of the capital city. In seeking 
to help the capital city achieve carbon-neutrality, BJUT 
will integrate research linked to urban construction, the 
environment, materials, energy, the chemical industry, 
and the circular economy. In carrying out digital 
and smart city construction, BJUT will accelerate 
the integrated application of such disciplines as 
civil engineering, environmental science, materials 
science, and control technology. The University will 
also contribute to Beijing’s industrial upgrading by 
integrating its competitive science disciplines such as 
biology, chemistry and physics. To Optimize Disciplinary 
Conﬁ  guration
Related to the country’s development strategies and 
the capital city's necessary industrial upgrading, BJUT 
will gradually form an ideally suited discipline structure 
by aligning the determination of goals and priorities 
of each ﬁ  rst category discipline, and optimizing 
resource allocation and the revocation mechanism of 
professional programs. The University will upgrade 
existing multidisciplinary groups through enhanced 
interdisciplinary collaboration. With competitive 
disciplines such as civil engineering, environmental 
science, materials science and control technology at 
their core, BJUT will create multidisciplinary groups 
linked to modern urban construction, environment 
and health, advanced materials and manufacturing, 
information science and technology, basic science, 
economy and management, social governance, and 
the humanities and arts. To Strengthen 
Basic Science
BJUT will continue to strengthen fundamental aspects 
of its science disciplines.The integration of science 
and engineering is essential in underpinning the 
development of first-class engineering disciplines.
To Promote Humanities, Social 
Sciences, and Arts
“BJUT Solutions” are to be proposed in the ﬁ  elds of 
intelligent social development, ecological well-being, 
block chain technology, and big data governance. 
BJUT will adopt a “BJUT Design” approach with 
respect to design services, China’s national image, 
and future lifestyles. The interdisciplinary integration 
of artiﬁ  cial intelligence, big data, block chain, virtual 
reality technology and social science disciplines 
will be promoted. The pace of research on carbon 
neutrality strategies will be quickened with greater 
interdisciplinary collaboration between the disciplines 
of economics, management, and social studies. 
Scientiﬁ  c research platforms will be established at 
provincial and ministerial levels, together with the 
development of new types of think tanks to serve the 
country and capital city. 01 03 04
05
FOCUS
To Establish a Frontier Interdisciplinary Academic Zone
BJUT will pool resources to create a new mechanism of interdisciplinary academic 
research in which groups of preeminent talents led by pioneering scientists, 
can engage in the most advanced, visionary and innovative research, efﬁ  ciently 
producing outcomes of global importance.02
Page       09   10BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUTGOALS
• To enable 50-55% of undergraduates to access 
graduate studies
• To see 40% of undergraduate programs selected 
as “first-class programs” at the national or 
municipal level
• To increase the number of Ph.D. candidates to 
1,950 and the total number of graduates to 
above 11,900
• To establish 5 to 7 professional doctoral programs
• To publish 10 to 15 doctoral dissertations that 
are rated (or nominated) excellent in Beijing or 
in the corresponding ﬁ  elds
• To set up 1 or 2 municipal-level university-
industry collaboration graduate training bases, 
and 20 to 30 such bases at the university level
• To establish 1 or 2 municipal-level international 
joint graduate training basesTo cultivate top-notch talents with global vision, creative 
thinking and leadership qualitiesSTUDENT SUCCESSTo Increase the Number of 
Graduates and Elevate Graduate 
Studies Excellence
Distinctive, high-standard graduate programs will 
be developed based on the formation of first-class 
multidisciplinary groups. Leveraging on the Faculty 
Academy, the development of high-quality graduate 
tutor teams will be emphasized, allowing them to hone 
their skills and ensure their professional conduct.
BJUT will further explore an undergraduate-master-
Ph.D track for talent cultivation that stretches from 
undergraduate to doctoral studies. The numbers 
of graduate recruits, doctoral candidates and 
international students will be increased, which as 
part and parcel of building BJUT into a “high-level 
research university”. Other elements involved in this 
endeavor include introducing the mode of graduate 
admission by individual research teams, reforming the 
examination system for enrolling doctoral candidates, 
and offering new professional and academic doctoral 
programs. External companies will also be involved 
in BJUT’s talent training to broaden the hands-
on experience of students in professional degree 
programs, and to improve the training model for these 
students engaging in technology transfer.02To Foster Innovative and 
Entrepreneurial Capabilities
BJUT will develop interdisciplinary courses linked 
to innovation and entrepreneurship, and will secure 
resources for these from its alumni, as well as from 
Chinese and international communities. Extracurricular 
contests such as “Internet+” and “Challenge Cup” will 
play a role in honing students’ practical skills.
Based on existing research commercialization 
platforms and technology parks, a new platform for 
students’ innovative and entrepreneurial activities will 
be set up. The three-tiered system of teaching and 
training linked to innovation and entrepreneurship 
at national, municipal and campus levels will be 
constantly improved, with an emphasis on project 
commercialization. BJUT will deepen strategic 
cooperation with pioneering companies, Beijing 
government authorities, and districts and counties in 
the city to create new bases for research, teaching, and 
industrial production.03
To Offer First-Class Undergraduate 
Education
BJUT will accelerate the development of high-
level undergraduate education and strengthen its 
ability to train talented individuals comprehensively. 
There will be emphases on improving curriculum 
structuring, teaching materials, students’ performance 
in extracurricular contests, and student assessment 
processes. In addition, stronger synergy will be formed 
among enrollment, cultivation and employment and the 
quality of student intake will be improved continuously.01The current undergraduate programs will be 
restructured based on economic and social realities. 
These include the digital upgrading of engineering 
programs such as those linked to urban construction, 
the environment, materials and control systems, in 
all of which BJUT has excelled since its inception. 
BJUT will encourage and support the development of 
emerging industries and will add programs tailored to 
the capital’s needs, such as big data management and 
application, the carbon economy and integrated circuit 
development. Recently established programs will be 
strengthened, including those linked to information 
technology, transportation, intelligent manufacturing 
engineering, nanomaterials technology, intelligent 
construction, and optoelectronic information science 
and technology. Reforms and upgrades will be applied 
to economics, management and humanities subjects.
The integration of basic science and engineering 
programs, and that of arts and engineering programs, 
will be promoted. BJUT will also step up support for 
the development of the Fan Gongxiu Honors College, 
the College of Software Engineering, the College of 
Electronic Science and Engineering, the Beijing-Dublin 
International College, and improve undergraduate 
honors degree programs. 
BJUT will build on existing first-class courses and 
initiate a new project to add 300+ premium courses. 
The teaching quality of “online plus ofﬂ  ine” courses 
will be enhanced with the further application of 
information technologies.
The faculty training system will be improved, giving 
full recognition to the roles of distinguished faculty 
members and their courses during such educational 
reforms. FOCUS
To Deliver Landmark Educational Outcomes
More efforts are required to obtain national level teaching and education achievement 
awards and textbook awards. Incentive mechanisms need to be optimized to 
encourage outstanding faculty members to compile high-level original textbooks 
for specialized courses. The best of these should be selected and polished to 
national level quality. These efforts will make for a system of first-class disciplines, 
courses, and textbooks.of undergraduates to access 
 of undergraduate programs selected 
as “first-class programs” at the national or 
To increase the number of Ph.D. candidates to 
 and the total number of graduates to 
 professional doctoral programs
 doctoral dissertations that 
are rated (or nominated) excellent in Beijing or 
 municipal-level university-
industry collaboration graduate training bases, 
 such bases at the university level
 municipal-level international 40%  of undergraduate programs selected 
as “first-class programs” at the national or 
municipal level
• To increase the number of Ph.D. candidates to 
1,9501,950  and the total number of graduates to 
above 11,90011,900
• To establish 5 to 7  professional doctoral programs
• To publish 10 to 15  doctoral dissertations that 
are rated (or nominated) excellent in Beijing or 
in the corresponding ﬁ  elds
• To set up 1 or 2  municipal-level university-
industry collaboration graduate training bases, 
and 20 to 30  such bases at the university level
• To establish 1 or 2  municipal-level international 
joint graduate training basesGOALS
• To enable of undergraduates to access To enable 50-55% of undergraduates to access 
graduate studies
• To see 40%  of undergraduate programs selected 
as “first-class programs” at the national or 
Page       11   12BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
FACUL TY AND STAFF
To enrich the team of first-class faculty members, empowering 
the University with talent aggregation
GOALS
• To increase the number of academicians 
by 1 or 2
• To have 40 full-time “national leading 
scholars” or their equivalent
• To have 50 full-time “national outstanding 
young scholars” or their equivalent • To pool 300 full-time faculty members who 
have the potential to be selected as “national 
outstanding young scholars” or their 
equivalents over the next ﬁ  ve years 
• To see high-level talented individuals 
comprising 4.5% of the faculty by the end of 
2025
To Upgrade Talent Acquisition and 
Development
BJUT will improve its talent recruitment system to 
support the demands of the University’s strategic 
development. Tenure-track systems will be put in 
place, together with upgrading the recruitment 
and management approaches of high-level talents, 
professional scholars and international faculty members. 
To create a favorable environment for the faculty’s 
development, BJUT will set up a stepwise growth 
system interlinked with municipal and national talent 
programs. The University will consistently encourage 
the faculty members to attend international academic 
conferences and engage in international joint research 
to improve their global capabilities. 01To Create Supportive Career 
Pathways
BJUT will build a multi-dimensional evaluation 
and promotion system which will highlight the 
comprehensive performance and potential of the 
faculty and staff. It is essential to improve the faculty 
evaluation processes in light of the features of each 
discipline and post, respecting the innate rules of each 
discipline. Reforms of the employment system for 
administrators and administrative staff will be explored, 
and the salary and beneﬁ  ts system for faculty and staff 
will be optimized to boost morale. 02
FOCUS
To Set up One or Two 
Research Teams Led by 
Academicians
BJUT will set up one or two academician-
led teams in such key disciplines as civil 
engineering, materials science, and 
information technology combining 
these with frontier areas of 
science and the needs of 
emerging industries 
in Beijing 
Page       13   14BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
FOCUS
To Establish “Enterprise Plus” 
Research Institutes
BJUT will seek to set up technology 
transformation institutes in cooperation 
with enterprises. To ensure the high-quality 
implementation of scientiﬁ  c and technological 
achievements, BJUT will proceed with 
the development of its own science and 
technology park, building an innovation 
and entrepreneurship ecosystem closely 
connecting the government, universities, 
industry and capital. BJUT will continue to work 
with its Chongqing Research Institute to help 
the transformation and upgrading 
of regional industries.RESEARCH AND INNOVATION
To produce first-class technological innovation based on 
BJUT’s expertise, to serve the major needs of the country and 
the capital cityTo Undertake 
High-level Projects
The new R &D ecology of "Base Plus" scheme will be 
applied for the incubation of major projects and their 
fruition. BJUT will undertake major national projects 
in the areas of block chain, artiﬁ  cial intelligence, 
advanced materials, smart cities, and pollution control. 
In addition, the University will establish interdisciplinary 
research teams across academic departments, 
addressing the urgent needs of the country and the 
capital city. 01To Promote Patent Transformation 
in Beijing
BJUT will establish a professional technology transfer 
platform covering the University’s signature disciplines. 
In addition, the University will put in place supporting 
policies and performance reward mechanisms to 
motivate faculty members and students to apply for 
commercial patents in their own ﬁ  elds of research. 
This is a way of leveraging the University's expertise to 
contribute to Beijing’s development as an international 
technological innovation hub. 02
FOCUS
To Support Beijing’s 
Achieving Carbon Peak and 
Carbon Neutrality
In aiming at achieving carbon peak by 2030 
and carbon neutrality by 2060 in China, 
BJUT will provide crucial technical support 
by carrying out research into clean energy, 
cutting-edge low-carbon technologies, polices 
for green and low-carbon development, 
and green finance, which will integrate  
multidisciplinary resources, including energy 
science and technology, environmental 
science, chemical engineering, materials 
science, urban construction, the circular 
economy, and applied economics. 
GOALS
• To achieve the first 1st Prize of the National 
Science and Technology Award
• To improve the number and quality of patent 
transformation in Beijing
• To found 1 or 2 “enterprise plus” research 
institutes
• To build another 1 or 2 national level 
innovation platforms
Page       15   16BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUTGLOBAL IMPACT
To increase the outreach and global impact by integrating 
domestic and international resources
GOALS
• To see the number of top 100/500/700 
international partners in QS Rankings reach 
20, 80, and 100 respectively
• To see the annual number of students 
in the Confucius Institute and Confucius 
Classrooms reach 1,000
• To see the number of overseas alumni liaison 
ofﬁ  ces reach 10
• To set up 3 to 5 international scientiﬁ  c 
research cooperation bases at university level 
or above
• To organize 2 or 3 high-level international 
research teams
• To gain approval for 10 to 15 high-end 
projects involving international experts at 
municipal level or above
• To enable at least 35% of undergraduates 
in each cohort to receive international 
education, of which at least 25% will receive 
long-term (at least one semester) international 
education 
• To enable 25% of undergraduate students to 
pursue graduate studies overseas  • To facilitate 150 graduates to receive long-
term (three months or above) joint education 
overseas and 600 to attend international 
symposiums 
• To see the number of students in BJUT-
foreign jointly-run institutions/programs reach 
1,600
• To see the annual number of international 
students at BJUT reach 1,600 and the 
proportion of international students studying 
degree programs in each discipline to reach 
50% or above
• To build an international faculty team and 
a foreign affairs team at both college and 
university levels with a global vision and a 
good knowledge of international rules
• To see the proportion of full-time faculty 
members with more than one year of overseas 
experience reach 30%, and the number of 
faculty members recruited from Hong Kong, 
Macao, Taiwan and overseas reach 120To see the number of top 100/500/700 
international partners in QS Rankings reach 
 respectively
To see the annual number of students 
in the Confucius Institute and Confucius 
Classrooms reach 1,0001,000
To see the number of overseas alumni liaison 
 international scientiﬁ  c 
research cooperation bases at university level 
 high-level international 
 high-end 
projects involving international experts at 
 of undergraduates 
in each cohort to receive international 
 will receive 
long-term (at least one semester) international 
 of undergraduate students to • To facilitate 150  graduates to receive long-
term (three months or above) joint education 
overseas and 600  to attend international 
symposiums 
• To see the number of students in BJUT-
foreign jointly-run institutions/programs reach 
1,6001,600
• To see the annual number of international 
students at BJUT reach 1,6001,600  and the 
proportion of international students studying 
degree programs in each discipline to reach 
50%  or above
• To build an international faculty team and 
a foreign affairs team at both college and 
university levels with a global vision and a 
good knowledge of international rules
• To see the proportion of full-time faculty 
members with more than one year of overseas 
experience reach 30% , and the number of , and the number of 30% , and the number of 30%
faculty members recruited from Hong Kong, 
Macao, Taiwan and overseas reach ofﬁ  ces reach 
To set up 3 to 5
research cooperation bases at university level 
or above
• To organize 
research teams
• To gain approval for 
projects involving international experts at 
municipal level or above
• To enable at least 
in each cohort to receive international 
education, of which at least 
long-term (at least one semester) international 
education 
• To enable 25%
pursue graduate studies overseas  GOALS
To see the number of top 100/500/700 
international partners in QS Rankings reach 
80, and , and 100
To see the annual number of students 
in the Confucius Institute and Confucius 
Classrooms reach in the Confucius Institute and Confucius 
1,0001,000
To see the number of overseas alumni liaison 
ofﬁ  ces reach 10
3 to 5  international scientiﬁ  c 
research cooperation bases at university level 
2 or 3  high-level international 
research teams
To gain approval for 10 to 15  high-end 
projects involving international experts at 
municipal level or above
To enable at least 35%  of undergraduates 
in each cohort to receive international 
education, of which at least 25%  will receive 
long-term (at least one semester) international 
25%  of undergraduate students to 
pursue graduate studies overseas  To see the number of top 100/500/700 
international partners in QS Rankings reach 
100  respectively
To see the annual number of students 
in the Confucius Institute and Confucius 
FOCUS
To Build a National-level 
Innovation Platform
BJUT will make every effort to promote the 
development of a national-level innovation 
platform. A dedicated 
managerial body will be set up, 
responsible for policy, 
external communication, 
services, and 
management of 
the platform. To Enlarge BJUT’s Presence 
in Beijing
BJUT will pool resources from its signature disciplines 
to comprehensively promote the development of the 
Huairou Science City Project, focusing in particular on 
a number of intellectual property rights in the ﬁ  elds of 
bioanalysis and nano-biomedicine. The University will 
deepen its comprehensive strategic cooperation with 
the Beijing Economic and Technological Development 
Area (BDA), establishing a regional research institute 
linking to carbon-neutral industries, and fostering a 
“zero-carbon” system in the BDA. BJUT will also invest 
in the development of the University of Technology 
(Yizhuang) Collaborative Innovation Base, achieving 
university-industry collaboration by making full use of 
BJUT’s scientiﬁ  c research in the ﬁ  elds of new materials, 
opto-electronics, bioengineering and robotics.
The innovative capability of the science and 
technology park will be enhanced to nurture 
exceptional innovators and entrepreneurs. R &D 
institutions connecting with international resources will 
be set up to empower technology commercialization 
and business start-ups in the park. 03

Page       17   18BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUTTo Upgrade the Internationalized 
Education System
BJUT’s existing internationalized talent training 
scheme will be improved, with a focus on the provision 
of more courses taught entirely in English. The 
University will continuously improve the scale, level 
and quality of education for international students, 
and more international joint training programs will be 
developed, including double degree programs and 
Sino-Foreign education programs, on the basis of 
BJUT’s signature disciplines. The “Global Vision Plan” 
for the internationalized training of undergraduates 
will be promoted. The scale and quality of international 
joint training for graduate students will be steadily 
improved.
Learning from world-class universities, the University 
will provide diverse opportunities to expand the vision 
of the faculty, staff and students. Academic exchanges 
between Chinese and foreign faculty members 
and students will be promoted through organizing 
international cultural and sports activities such as 
the “International Education Week”, “International 
Day”, international salons, high-level lectures and 
international volunteer services. All these will enrich 
the experience of faculty, staff and students on BJUT’s 
international campus. 03To Raise International Reputation 
and Impact
BJUT will enhance its global exchange and cooperation 
network by fully utilizing the role of overseas liaison 
ofﬁ  ces and by strengthening strategic cooperation 
with world-class universities and other institutions of 
excellence. A globally recognizable image of BJUT 
will be promoted, through the University’s organizing, 
and participation in, inﬂ  uential international exchange 
activities, and by actively making the University’s 
voice heard in various international activities and 
organizations. A global network of BJUTers will be built 
and alumni activities will be organized worldwide. 
Solid steps will be taken in advancing the Sino-
Polish University Consortium under the Belt and 
Road Initiative and in seeking to establish a center for 
Sino-Polish regional country studies, and a national 
consortium of regional universities. Exchanges and 
cooperation with higher education institutions will 
be strengthened in countries and regions along the 
Belt and Road. Efforts will be made to achieve the 
continuing high quality operation of the Confucius 
Institute and Confucius Classrooms. 01To Emphasize International 
Science and Technology Research 
Cooperation
BJUT encourages faculty members to carry out 
cooperative work with international science and 
technology research partners and will continue 
to optimize the funding policies for international 
cooperative research seed funds. 
All BJUT’s teaching and research institutions will 
be encouraged to establish high-level international 
research platforms in collaboration with top-level foreign 
research institutions and universities. BJUT will seek 
to attract more high-level foreign researchers to form 
world-class innovative joint research teams. Such teams 
are planned to jointly publish high-level papers, and to 
promote the commercialization of research outcomes. 02
To Build an International Faculty 
Team with Global Capabilities
BJUT is keen to build an international faculty team 
of global inﬂ  uence and competitiveness. High level 
professionals will be actively sought from Hong Kong, 
Macao, Taiwan and overseas to work full-time on the 
campus. In addition, connections will be established 
with prestigious universities worldwide, and visiting 
and training programs developed to equip the faculty 
members with international experience. 04FOCUS
To Relocate the Beijing-Dublin International College to the Beijing Municipal 
Administrative Center
The Beijing-Dublin International College (BDIC) will be relocated to Beijing's 
municipal administrative center. The BDIC will be promoted as an outstanding 
example of BJUT’s internationalized campus and of Beijing’s efforts in 
internationalized education, serving the capital’s status as a global exchange 
center. The “1+N” network will be established, with the Beijing-Dublin 
International College as the core, with collaboration with other top global 
universities and centers of academic excellence.

Page       19   20BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
To Promote 
BJUT Culture
BJUT brand will be highlighted by standardizing 
the use of the University’s emblem, ﬂ  ag and anthem, 
and other BJUT symbols. BJUT-themed products 
and souvenirs will be designed, 3D campus maps 
developed, and promotional videos and brochures 
produced. One or more BJUT museum areas will 
be created. In these ways, people’s understanding 
of BJUT’s historical and cultural landscape will be 
augmented.02UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE
To create a first-class university governance system for a 
smart, green, harmonious and sustainable campus, raising the 
level of satisfaction of faculty, staff and students
01To Improve the Governance 
Mechanism
The administration system and the implementation of 
BJUT's regulations will be reviewed. The University’s 
operating mechanism will be upgraded and modernized 
with the University’s charter as the core. The law-based 
approach serves to guide, promote and ensure the 
University's reform and development.
To Promote Sustainable 
Development
Resources inside and outside the University will be 
coordinated to develop smart, green and harmonious 
campuses, including the main Pingleyuan campus, 
the BJUT Innovative Industrial Park at Guanzhuang, 
and the campus of the Beijing-Dublin International 
College. BJUT will reach out to local governments and 
businesses for their cooperation and provision of the 
external resources needed. New channels of funding 
will be launched, including alumni associations, the 
University Council and the Education Foundation. 03To Elevate the Satisfaction Level of 
Faculty, Staff and Students
BJUT will address the needs of faculty members, staff 
and students to increase their sense of satisfaction 
and achievement. Improvements will be made to 
their living and learning environment, including the 
condition of student dormitories, public spaces, the 
sports ﬁ  elds, and cafeterias. Aiming to create a green, 
environmentally-friendly university, the issues of 
energy conservation and garbage classiﬁ  cation will 
be further tackled. Safety issues including ﬁ  re safety, 
trafﬁ  c safety, laboratory safety and network security 
will also be covered to ensure a safe and harmonious 
campus environment. 04To Build a Smart 
Campus
BJUT will upgrade its IT systems to cater for the varied 
needs of the University, such as scientiﬁ  c research, 
teaching, administration, and services for faculty 
members, staff and students. This will be achieved 
by applying 5G, big data, artiﬁ  cial intelligence, and 
other information technologies. Interactive courses 
will be designed perfectly integrating online and 
ofﬂ  ine education. It is also aimed to build an intelligent 
library with a collection of 2.25 million printed books, 
1.7 million electronic books and more than 20,000 
electronic periodicals by 2025.02BJUT VALUES
To enrich BJUT’s values and core culture that champions 
openness, inclusiveness and excellence
To Enrich 
BJUT Values
BJUT aims to enrich research into the history of the 
University, all faculties and colleges, and prominent 
individuals. BJUT’s values of openness, inclusiveness 
and excellence will be promoted in depth, which serve 
as the bond connecting all BJUTers and boost their 
awareness of their cultural inheritance and of their 
culture’s development. Additionally, a bricks-and-mortar 
bookshop will be built on campus to encourage reading 
and learning. Cultural lectures will be given by scholars 
from the Palace Museum and ethnic art activities will be 
held. 01
Page       21   22BEIJING  UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGYBJUT
BJUT will have become a 
world-class high-level research 
university with not only its own 
distinctive features but also 
signiﬁ  cant global inﬂ  uence.BY 2060
BJUT will have a world-class 
university’s framework in place, 
with a number of disciplines 
leading in China and in the 
world, BJUT’s position and 
comprehensive strengths being 
markedly improved BY 2035
BJUT has grown into an 
internationally renowned, 
distinctive and high-level 
research university and has 
played an important role 
in the economic and social 
development of China and the 
capital city IN 2020ENVISION 
THE 
FUTURE 
Building BJUT into a world-
class university by 2060 
has been the centenary 
dream and common pursuit 
of generations of BJUTers.BJUT’s
PASSIONSECOND STEP THIRD STEP FIRST STEPTaking into account the overall goal of 
China’s “Double First Class” initiative and 
the University’s current position, BJUT will 
follow the “three-step” strategy by 2060.THREE-STEP 
STRATEGY
