0 
     
Setting goals and objectives is a critical part of any strategic 
plan, but a path must be plotted, targets set, to ensure that 
progress can be monitored on the way to realising those 
objectives. This document shows the baseline, current 
position of the University, and the progressive targets that it 
intends to meet on the way to 2025. 
Strategic Plan 2025  
Tracking progress towards achieving objectives 
 
 

1 
 1. FOREWORD BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF COUNCIL These are challenging times for higher education in our country, as we continue to experience high unemployment, poverty and inequality in 
the wider society of which we are a part. These issues put pressure on our higher ed ucation system, to serve as the cornerstone of all efforts 
to radically transform our society, and provide a mechanism that will en able the country to meet these challenges.  For the University of 
Johannesburg (UJ), this calls for radical changes and new ways to improve our t eaching and learning, to enhance our research footprint and 
to ensure that the institution becomes more efficient and effective.   It is pleasing to note, however, that despite these many challenges, the university continued with its excellent performance, and surpassed all 
its key strategic targets for the last couple of years. These achievements ensured that UJ forged an identity unique among local and international 
universities, as a well-performing institution. As we continue in our quest to take UJ to greater heights, and boldly enter the international higher 
education space, we intend to attract and retain illustrious international acad emic staff, and high performing international students. However, 
we also realised that these ambitions required a moment to pause and refl ect on the appropriateness of our vision and strategic focus, if we 
are to ensure that UJ remains competitive and attractive as a global institution of lea rning.  Consequently, Council engaged with the 
Management Executive Committee in holistic and systemic strategic thinking which culm inated in the development and adoption of the Strategic 
Plan 2025, with special emphasis on Global Excellence and Stature.   Born in 2005, out of the merger of three legacy institutions, that i s, Technikon Witwatersrand founded in 1921, Rand Afrikaans University 
founded  in 1968 and Vista University founded in 1979, UJ has now transformed into a  diverse, inclusive, transformational and collegial 
institution, with a student population of over 49000,  of which 2500 are international students from 52 countries.  This makes UJ one of the 
largest contact universities in South Africa.  The VC also secured a place for UJ in the exclusive Universitas 21 group of research universiti es, initiated as an international network of 
universities for collaborative research and shared strategic thinking on globally important issues. UJ also improved its standing as a uniquely 
positioned academic institution locally and globally, with considerable gains i n research output contributing to the global body of knowledge 
and improving the university’s ra nking. The university has also created space for academic staff and stude nts of diverse cultures, institutions 
and languages to grow into a single, well integrated, multi-campus university communi ty of international stature.   
Council is extremely grateful for the strategic role displayed by the leader ship of UJ in uniquely positioning the University as a global player.  
As Council, we have confidence and trust in the high levels of commitment and hard work of the collective leadership to implement this strategic 
plan and take this university to even greater heights.  PROFESSOR ROY MARCUS Chairperson of Council   
2 
 2. INTRODUCTION BY THE VICE CHANCELLOR Shifting our identity and brand from new, young and innovative to a university of gl obal excellence and stature is the future we desire for UJ.  
This new thinking, necessitated the review of the 2020 Strategic Plan,   and the development of the 2025 Strategic Plan,  anchored in the sing le 
strategic goal  “Global Excellence and Stature” (GES). The new 2025 strateg ic plan places a lot of emphasis on “excellence” w hich is also a 
recurring theme throughout the six strategic objectives as outlined below. Over the years, UJ has focussed on building a reputation of accessible 
excellence, and established itself as an institution of global excellence and world class stature. This is evident in the international recognition 
that UJ has won including its positioning by the authoritative Quacquar elli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings as being among the top 
4% of universities in the world, and among the top 1% of universities in the BRICS  countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China & South Africa), 
where it is ranked 61 st  among this economic bloc’s 6  200 universities.   It is also noteworthy that in both QS WUR and QS BRICS , UJ obtained 
high scores in the categories of academic and employer reputation, and international facu lty. The URAP rankings that focus solely on research 
output, research impact and global research collaboration, place UJ among the top ten universitie s in Africa.  
UJ is also the first and only African university admitted to the hig hly respected consortium of 28 research-intensive universities, otherwise 
known as Universitas 21, an important endorsement of its growing international st ature. Furthermore, prospective university students voted UJ 
the second coolest and preferred university brand in South Africa for five successiv e years. UJ also boasts world class, internationally 
recognised academic programmes, based on curricula informed by cutting-edge developm ents in both undergraduate and postgraduate 
education.  Most important, is the fact that our programmes are designed to prepare students for the world of work and for global citizenship, 
with a solid reputation of excellence established in our several flagship programmes. In order to make our teaching, research and innovation goals a reality,  we have over the past eight years invested in excess of R2 billion in the 
upgrading and expansion of living and learning facilities on all four of our campuses, with the intention of creating a safe, secure, world class 
learning and research environment for both staff and students. We also successf ully introduced our ground breaking on-line late applications 
system in 2013, exceeded by far our target success rates, beat our graduate out put targets, surpassed our research output goals, significantly 
grew our global footprint and academic reputation,  and achieved an outstanding 93% graduate employment level within 12 months of student 
graduation. 
All these awards and accolades, and our overall past performance, makes UJ a promine nt academic institution in the local and international 
academic systems, and our willingness to submit  credentials for internation al evaluation is a demonstration of courage, commitment and 
confidence in our staff and student community at large.        
3 
 TOWARDS GLOBAL EXCELLENCE AND STATURE Our vision is to be nationally responsive in a manner that only we can be, while we pursue global excellence and stature. We will t herefore 
dedicate our time and resources over time towards the development and impl ementation of our global excellence and stature goal. We will, for 
example, make considerable new investments through the recruitment of a cr itical mass of distinguished visiting professors, and exceptional 
postdoctoral fellows, master’s  and doctoral students in our flagship teaching and research progr ammes. Our GES initiative seeks to nurture 
globally astute graduates. In that respect, a landmark initiative for which  preparations started during 2013, is the phased introduction of the 
university-wide use of tablets and notebooks for teaching, learning, asses sment and research.    
 
We have set ourselves six new strategic objectives to drive the GES, with ex cellence as a recurring theme.  The emphasis on excellence is 
important and necessary, as academic excellence forms the basis for the institution’s contribution to nation -building, economic development, 
sustainability of innovative capacity, and education of the future workforce. It is our sincere belief, that the achievement of the targets we have set for ourselves in relation to our six strategic objectives will mak e our 
vision of Global Excellence and Stature a reality, and make UJ a stronger, global university. 
   PROFESSOR IHRON RENSBURG 
Vice Chancellor and Principal  
4 
    
VISION  
An international university of choice, 
anchored in Africa, dynamically shaping 
the future. 
 
 
 MISSION  
Inspiring its community to transform and serve humanity 
through innovation and the collaborative pursuit of 
knowledge . 
VALUES  
IMAGINATION  
 Shaping 
the future  
Thinking independently  
Developing a cosmopolitan identity   
Exhibiting ambition and drive  
Adopting entrepreneurial approaches   CONVERSATION  
 Learning 
together from our diversity  
Making wise decisions collectively  
Engaging meaningfully with one another  
Displaying mutual respect  
Leading consultatively  
REGENERATION   Developing 
sustainability through creative 
contribution  
Introspecting for renewal  
Innovating for the common good 
Making positive change  
Taking advantage of overlooked opportunities  ETHICAL FOUNDATION  
 Treasuring 
academic freedom  
Seeking balance in the pursuit of knowledge 
Facing challenges with courage and earning trust  
Acting responsibility by being fair, consistent and transparent  
Participating in and helping the community( Ubuntu) 
  
  
5 
 SUMMARY OF STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The following six strategic objectives also provide a focused means for realisi ng the Vision, Mission and Values of the University as set out 
above. They further represent a re-working of the original Strateg ic Thrusts 2020 in the context of a wider positi oning of the University as “The 
Pan- African” Centre for Critical Intellectual Inquiry, with the primary goal o f achieving global excellence and stature.  
Strategic objective one : Excellence in Research and Innovation – will be achieved through a focussed approach to Postgraduate studies, 
Research and Innovation.  The aim is to attract outstanding graduates from div erse backgrounds into our postgraduate programmes, by offering 
a range of innovative programmes characterised by the highest level of schol arship and rigour that incorporate into the curriculum, cutting edge 
research developments.  The university also aims to increase its stature and reputation  through the quality, integrity and impact of its research 
endeavour, particularly as it engages with issues pertinent to the pan-Af rican context.  We will also promote the culture of innovation and 
entrepreneurship by providing a stimulating and supportive environment, especi ally in its technology stations, for problem-solving research 
projects that can be commercialised, and applied technology-driven research  and development with the potential to lead to patents and 
technology transfer.  Strategic objective two:  Excellence in Teaching and Learning – will be achieved through maintaining an appropriate enrolment profile, offerin g 
intellectually rigorous curricula which respond innovatively to the challenges of the 21 st  century, promoting outstanding achievements by the 
full range of our highly diverse student body, and establishing pre-eminence an d stature as a teaching-focused institution.  The enrolment 
profile will show increasing growth in SET fields, while maintaining significant  proportions of enrolment across all the other primary disciplinary 
areas, with an emphasis on enrolment of outstanding students from diverse backg rounds, a significant proportion of international students, and 
a significant number of students from schools in the lowest two quintiles.  We will offer a mix of strong,  leading-edge, technology-driven 
programmes,  professional and general formative programmes,  some of w hich will have an inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary character, 
while some will be developed to the eminence of flagship status.  The uni versity will also aim to achieve excellent student success rates, 
improved retention and increased graduate output, and finally develop teaching as a  scholarly activity. 
Strategic objective three:  International Profile for Global Excellence and Stature – will be achieved through recruitment of international 
students and staff, study abroad programmes (inbound & outbound), and smart institu tional partnerships.  The aim is to have an increased 
proportion of undergraduate and postgraduate international students through focused recr uitment from Africa, the BRICS nations,  Asia,  the 
Americas,  Australasia and Europe. Recruitment will target international academics of stature, and post-doctoral and other fellows, while for 
students structured inbound study abroad programmes will become a significant feat ure of our offerings. We also intend to increase the number 
and stature of our partnerships with universities, selected United Nations agencies, the A frican Union and various embassies to secure funding 
and facilitate the offering of joint degrees, executive short learning progra mmes and the establishment of a Global Policy Institute for Africa or 
Leadership School. Strategic objective four : Enriching Student-Friendly Learning and Living Experience – will be achieved through excellent teaching and learning 
facilities, support through the student life cycle, learning and living comm unities, and a responsible and respectful student culture and ethos.  
We aim to provide sufficient teaching and learning facilities of varying  sizes that are well equipped to serve as lecture, tutorial, seminar and 
laboratory venues. Our libraries throughout all campuses will operate as hubs for student learning through the provision of social and leaning 
commons and WiFi access. We will also provide a package of career and programme guidance to learners at school level, academic advice 
for appropriate placement, access to bursaries and loans, psycho-social counselling and career counselling at exit level.  The learning and 
6 
 living objective is to provide students with an environment that is nu rturing and supportive of their academic endeavours, and provides a wide 
range of extra-curricular activities to meet their needs and interests,  and foster  their all-round development. Lastly we aim to produce students 
who are responsible and accountable for their actions, and respectful of human dig nity, especially in relation to women, foreign students, gays 
and lesbians. Strategic objective five:  National and Global Reputation Management – We aim to be a pan-African centre of critical intellectual inquiry 
through extensive scholarship, participation in the knowledge networks o f the continent, including partnering with CODERSIA and through a 
flow of scholars from the continent to UJ, as visiting professors to participate in our public lectures, seminars and programmes.  We will also 
enhance public awareness of our academic achievements by profiling flagship programmes,  top academic scholars and students, and our 
achievements and awards. We will develop dynamic brand and marketing strategies t hat enable the careful management of transitions through 
consistent alignment of all elements and environments, internal and external, i ncluding the UJ website, social media and the way in which the 
University advertises positions.  We will also have proactive and responsive communications systems in place that project a positive image of 
the University and its achievements into the public arena and that enable an effective response t o crises.  We further intend to play a significant 
role in public leadership through thoughtful, well-informed and scholarly reflect ion and engagement on the part of our senior scholars, senior 
management, senior academic leaders, student leaders and members of Council .  Our alumni group remains a very important stakeholder, 
and we will establish an active alumni base characterised by its loyalty to the institution, it s positive promotion of our reputation and well-being, 
and its contribution to our time, expertise and resources. Strategic objective six:  Fitness for Global Excellence and Stature – We will put in place world class financial systems to ensure good 
investment returns and overall financial stability and sustainability.  Our empl oyment strategies for academic staff will build the proportions o f 
black, women, disabled, and international staff, including the attraction and re tention of illustrious academic staff. Promoting a welcoming and 
caring environment will be manifest in well-kept gardens, buildings and facilities, helpful and prompt attention at all service points and open 
communication.  We will also minimise harmful impact on our environment throu gh managing our carbon footprint, reducing energy and water 
wastage, encouraging paperless communication, and overall fostering of a culture of resp onsible stewardship.  We will also provide world class 
infrastructure and systems, and ensure our operations are underpinned by principles of good governance . 
  
