STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023


STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 20235
introductory 
note
João Caraça
President of the General Council 
of the University of Coimbra
Designing a strategy is the core element of the assertion of 
the Rector in what concerns leadership and commitment to 
evolving his University in the Higher Education ecosystem. 
The strategy consists in the consubstantiation of the vision 
of the future announced during his candidacy. It contains 
everything that falls within the scope of the design, decision, 
conduct and content of the actions to be undertaken during 
his term of office. It is a key element that connects the 
present to the future.
A new thing is not produced by spontaneous generation.
It must be created, protected, supported, and strengthened. 
Then maybe it can succeed, thrive and emerge as an 
innovation or a factor of profound transformation. There 
are no discontinuities in life. T o determine when something 
starts is as difficult as to determine when it ends. However, 
if we are attentive, we may observe some signs of the 
upcoming change, or indications that warn us about a 
possible change of what was anticipated. 
Any era is a transition period for the individuals who 
live it, in which the interests and the fears of the past are 
confronted with the aspirations and the enthusiasms of 
the future, and in which the illusions of autonomy intersect 
with the forces that impose the chains on the present. 
Nevertheless, opportunities emerge in this melting pot of 
conflicts and crises.
A keen observer understands that the solution to our era is 
not just technological: it is mainly political and social, that is, 
it is eminently cultural.
Therefore, a culture of questioning the past, present and 
future has to be valued, as well as a culture of improving 
individuals’ own capabilities. That is, a culture that welcomes 
history, values social solidarity and fosters political 
intervention, a culture that stimulates prospective analysis.
This encouragement of critical thinking and freedom of 
action is the essence of the University’s mission.
An institution has never changed or developed by looking inside itself. A change has begun and sustained exactly 
when internal constraints were confronted, and when new 
procedures were created in response to blocked situations,– 
replicating others or trying to overcome them.
An institution evolves when it calls itself into question, when 
it opens up to the outside and questions the future. The 
secret of moving forward lies in the balance between what 
must be preserved and what must be necessarily changed.
T oday, extreme poverty and the misery of many millions 
of human beings live side by side with the abundance 
and the economic power of some restricted and 
fortunate higher circles.
However, the promise brought by science, after World War 
II, and the new scientific technologies it originated was 
that they would be the basis of and lead to social progress. 
Realising that this belief is, after all, a mirage, which social 
practice dispelled, has shown that the relationships and 
interactions which support historical reality are much more 
complex than the simple analyses that fill the major portion 
of the contemporary political speech.
The complexity of our nature as social beings implies that 
no discipline alone can describe categorically the behaviour 
of the human beings and, therefore, provide a definitive 
guide for action in order to achieve more and better social 
justice. Accordingly, it becomes necessary to combine 
different perspectives and practices in order to approach 
interconnected issues. The University must fully play its role 
also in this field as a far-reaching beacon and propose new 
behaviours to be adopted, by giving a reliable and credible 
example of them.
By approving the present Plan, the General Council decided 
it should urge and support the Rectorate’s efforts to define 
metrics that will motivate the University and propel it into a 
positive and promising direction, monitoring the path taken 
to reach the objectives that have been selected.
Because, according to what the great António Vieira wrote, 
“In order to evaluate hope, one has to measure the future”.
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023index
09
10
13
19
20
24
27
29
33
34 
38
42
46
51
52 
56
60
64
66
69
72
75
78
80
82Broadly approved at the  
General Council’s meeting  
of 16th December 2019Citius, Altius, Fortius  
Framework  
Mission, Values and Vision  
Context Analysis
Stakeholders and strategic  
 reflection sessions
Swot Analysis
Prospective and scenarios’ analysis
Strategic Formulation
Strategic Guidelines
Pillars 
Research & Innovation 
T eaching 
Societal Challenges
Internationalisation
Axes
People
Quality
Facilities
Funding
Communication
Sustainability  
and Social Responsibility
Environment and Climate Action 
Citizenship, Equality and Inclusiveness 
Monitoring and assessment  
From Strategy to Action 
Acknowledgements
9
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
The motto underlying the action plan, which this guiding 
document intends to inspire, mirrors the Olympic spirit to 
the precise extent that it was defined by Pierre de Coubertin: 
“Citius, Altius, Fortius” (“faster, higher, stronger”).
Individual resilience is an absolute value. Collective 
resilience is also an absolute value. It is obviously 
possible to compare personal and collective 
performances. However, the challenge we face is 
to bring out the best in each of us, expecting that 
the final collective result will be far greater than the 
sum of its parts. 
Getting positive results is usually associated with some 
inspiration and a lot of perspiration. There are plenty 
of (good) ideas, but implemented ideas are scarce. In 
order to assert ourselves as a research university, it is 
necessary to come up with ideas and implement them. 
That is why a Strategic Plan is absolutely essential in 
order to identify the best ideas and to monitor their 
implementation. 
Since I believe we can always do more and better, our 
main focus should be on people. Valuing and caring for 
the academic community must be our priority. If we are 
able to motivate and unite people around a collective 
project, then we will be stronger and can undoubtedly 
say that the future of the University of Coimbra 
lies in our hands.citius, 
altius, 
fortius
The reason why a  
Strategic Plan is crucial:  
to better identify the best 
ideas and monitor their 
implementation.Amílcar Falcão
Rector
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 202311
academic community, by attesting it as an active part 
of the process and co-responsible for the design and 
implementation of the defined path.
With the 2019-2023 Strategic Plan the UC intends to 
be a University (increasingly) empowered to build the 
future, embodying its vision and goals in a sustainable 
and socially responsible way. 
Nevertheless, however well-defined a strategy may be, it 
will always be doomed to failure if its operationalisation 
is not duly implemented; and however well-designed 
it may be, it will only succeed if it is implemented 
with people and for people. People are thus the most 
valuable component of the adopted strategy and all 
of them are important to achieve success. That is why 
they should be heard, involved, valued and informed. If 
each person feels part of the strategy, from its design 
to its operationalisation, the collective strength will be 
reinforced. In order to ensure a successful strategy, in 
which people’s involvement is indispensable, a broad 
set of sessions and moments of reflection entitled 
“The Future of the UC in our Hands” was organised 
by the UC, between May and November 2019, with 
the active participation of the academic community. 
Additionally, these reflection sessions included, 
simultaneously, academic partners and external agents, 
in order to contribute also to the strengthening of the 
relationships between the UC and different external 
stakeholders. Always focusing on issues that represent 
concerns of each participant, the goal of such a broad, 
participatory, cross-cutting and multicultural approach 
was to include different perspectives and contributions. 
Since the UC belongs to a comprehensive external 
context, the design of the strategy should be preceded 
by a comparative analysis and a risk analysis. The 
success in implementing the strategy will depend on 
the capacity to adapt to external circumstances, so it is 
crucial that the UC is prepared to face different scenarios 
in the evolution of the surrounding environment. framework
Strategic thinking, self-knowledge and listening 
to others, combined with prospective analysis and 
consideration of exogenous factors, contribute to the 
definition of the starting point, the pathway and goals 
to be achieved. Knowing your starting point and what 
you want to achieve is extremely important; hence, 
combining both of them with the knowledge on to how 
to develop the best way to get it by means of a constant 
planning process, implementation, monitoring, 
assessment and action in real-time, is crucial. 
Strategic Planning in high-performance institutions 
such as the University of Coimbra (UC) is thus a dynamic 
and living focus that points out the pathway which, in 
light of current knowledge, best enables it to achieve 
the wanted and plausibly designed results.
The development of this process, as of now and 
throughout the 2019-2023 strategic cycle, will enable 
to identify, change and strengthen the University’s 
position, increasing the assertiveness of the decisions 
to be taken and adding them rationality and objectivity, 
as they are based on measurable and measured data. 
At the same time, it will provide a more effective 
signalling of the prioritisation of actions and an 
allocation of resources to the areas identified as 
strategic, and will also foster the participation of the The process of the 2019-2023 
 strategic planning is a vital tool 
 for the University of Coimbra 
 and aims to ensure a systematic, 
 structured, multidisciplinary  
and cross-cutting approach  
to the challenges of the 
 present and future.Accordingly, the adopted methodology has comprised 
the prospective analysis and the exploration of 
framework scenarios of the environment in which 
the UC will compete and cooperate in the medium 
and long-term, and in this regard two brainstorming 
sessions, included in the programme “The Future of the 
UC in our Hands”, were held by the UC.
The present Strategic Plan establishes the main 
guidelines for the University of Coimbra’s activities 
during the 2019-2023 quadrennium, and starts a 
new monitoring and assessment cycle. The previous 
strategic planning processes enabled the development 
and incorporation of a culture of permanent monitoring 
and regular supervision of the UC activity, based on 
the compliance with the principle of improvement. 
Notwithstanding the improvement already achieved, 
even better indicators and stronger information 
gathering mechanisms will be developed, since in order 
to make the right decisions, the right people must have 
the right data in due course. 
In the first part of this document, after this brief 
Framework, the statutorily defined mission and values 
of the University of Coimbra are recalled, followed by 
the explanation of the vision that will guide the UC 
activity in the upcoming years. 
In the analysis of the background and surrounding 
environment a reference is made to the study of the 
stakeholders, the participatory process “The Future 
of the UC in our hands”, the SWOT analysis, and the 
prospective analysis and exploration of scenarios. 
Within the scope of the strategic formulation, the 
reference framework of the University of Coimbra for the 
2019-2023 quadrennium is defined, which is structured 
according to mission pillars and axes. The pillars, which 
are directly related to the core goals of the University 
(Research & Innovation, T eaching and Societal 
Challenges), are intersected by the relevant mission 
pillar Internationalisation. The axes correspond to the necessary resources to achieve the aforementioned 
goals, and are organised into five aspects: People, 
Quality, Facilities, Funding and Communication. 
The concerns about sustainability and social 
responsibility will be present in every area of activity 
of the UC. A special emphasis will be given to the 
Environment and Climate Action, and to Citizenship, 
Equality and Inclusiveness, which are specific areas of 
unequivocal importance today. These aspects assume 
a fundamental nature which is intersected with all the 
mission pillars and axes. 
For each pillar, axis and area, the respective vision is 
explained and the strategic guidelines to be followed 
until 2023 are presented, exploring a set of initiatives to 
be developed and determining the goals to be achieved, 
based on the main challenges and most important 
objectives to be reached by the UC in this timeframe.
In conclusion, the methodology to be followed by the 
UC to monitor and assess the implementation of the 
strategy is patented. 
The Strategic Plan will be complemented by a set 
of actions to be institutionally developed under the 
responsibility of the Rector’s T eam and rendered into an 
Action Plan. However, the transition from strategy to 
action and the achievement of the proposed goals will 
depend on the contribution of the whole community 
and the alignment of the actions to be developed 
by the organisational units and other units in their 
respective Action Plans. 
At last, we mention here an acknowledgment to the 
academic community. People are the most important 
asset of the University of Coimbra and we count on all 
of them in the journey towards a University under the 
motto “Citius, Altius, Fortius” (“faster, higher, stronger”)!
The Future of the UC is in our hands!
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
mission, 
values 
and vision
15
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023The University of Coimbra is an institution 
for creation, critical analysis, transmission 
and dissemination of culture, science 
and technology which, by means of 
research, teaching and community services 
provision, contributes to the economic and 
social development, the environmental 
protection, the promotion of social justice 
and informed and responsible citizenship, 
and the consolidation of knowledge-
based sovereignty.mission
The University  
has a duty to  
contribute to:
Statutes of the University of Coimbra   
[article 2]The University is governed by the principles of academic 
solidarity  and ensures the freedom to teach, learn, 
research, innovate and undertake initiatives. 
Statutes of the University of Coimbra [Article 3, paragraph 3]
The University of Coimbra, as depositary of a multi-
century-old historical legacy and a cultural matrix of 
the Lusophone space is, in the tradition of European 
humanism, an institution that has always been open 
to the world, to the cooperation between peoples and 
to the interaction of cultures, respecting the values of 
independence, tolerance and dialogue, proclaimed in the 
Magna Carta of European Universities.
The University of Coimbra asserts itself by  
means of the combination of tradition , 
contemporaneity and innovation.
The University values  the work of its professors, 
researchers, students and non-teaching and non-
research staff, and commits itself to providing everyone 
with an environment that combines intellectual rigour  
and university ethics with freedom of opinion, spirit of 
tolerance and scientific humility, stimulation of creativity  
and innovation, as well as the acknowledgement and 
promotion of merit at all levels.
Statutes of the University of Coimbra [article 4, paragraphs 1 to  3]values
The purposes of the University of Coimbra are: (…) 
d) Contribution to the implementation of a policy of 
sustainable economic and social development (…) 
Statutes of the University of Coimbra [Article 5]
Besides the values explicitly defined in the statutes, the 
University of Coimbra must position itself as a socially 
responsible institution and reinforce, in its identity 
matrix, the principles leading to a civilised advanced 
society. The UC asserts itself as an inclusive institution 
that values diversity. By means of its policies and 
practices, the University is responsible for promoting 
and ensuring equality and fighting discrimination, 
namely, concerning gender identity and expression, 
sexual orientation, age, disability, racial and ethnic 
origin, nationality, religion or belief. Since the UC 
commits itself to ensuring an inclusive, stimulating 
and solidary environment, which respects the rights 
and dignity of all community members, the right to 
difference must be respected. 
The University of Coimbra should always be ruled by 
excellence in all its fields of action.
The promotion of the actual 
mobility of professors and 
researchers, students and 
graduates, at both the national 
and international levels, 
namely in the European Higher 
Education Area and in the 
Community of Portuguese 
Language Countries.The public understanding of 
humanities, arts, science and 
technology, by promoting and 
organising actions to support 
the dissemination of the 
humanistic, artistic, scientific 
and technological culture, 
and providing the necessary 
resources for these purposes;
The development of activities 
related to society, namely the 
dissemination and transfer 
of knowledge, as well as the 
economic valorisation of 
scientific knowledge;
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
With its statutorily defined mission, the University of 
Coimbra, as a reference institution, needs an innovative, 
modern and creative strategic vision that enables it 
to anticipate the future and reach higher and more 
consistent quality levels. 
In order to become truly competitive on the national and 
international scene, the UC must assert itself globally 
as a research university. With a strong focus on high 
quality research and knowledge production, education 
and knowledge transfer to society will be strengthened 
and gain another dimension – one does not teach what 
one does not know and one does not transfer what 
one does not have. The University of Coimbra will thus 
be better placed to train competent people and to be 
proactive in its connection to society. 
In a constantly changing world, teaching faces huge 
challenges. In addition, strengthening and stimulating 
the link between teaching and research, as well as 
introducing teaching and learning processes that are 
more appropriate to the profile of current students 
and the new features of social and labour contexts, will 
benefit students, the institution and potentially society.  The strengthening of research activities  is therefore 
crucial for the University to be able to assume an 
absolutely decisive role as a prime mover of society, 
helping to transform citizens’ lives and boosting 
areas such as education, science and technology, 
culture, sport, economy, justice and health, among 
others. The opening of the University to society will be 
encouraged and valued. 
While it is true that the University’s connection to the 
city will be strengthened in this way  –  the local level 
is the first to benefit from an in-depth connection 
to society  –,  a research university is by nature a 
university in which internationalisation reaches very 
high levels. The UC can assert itself as a research 
university only if it focuses on an increasingly proactive 
internationalisation policy; and being a true research 
university will certainly contribute to the strengthening 
of a global University of Coimbra. 
In order to pursue this goal, involving, valuing and caring 
for the academic community becomes essential, with 
the complete conviction that all people are important to 
achieve success and that only with collective awareness 
and commitment the desired future will be achieved!vision
T o be internationally recognised as a research 
university, in which the production of high 
quality knowledge influences the educational 
process and increases the sharing of knowledge 
with society, and respond to each and every 
one’s problems, and contribute without 
reservations to a sustainable development.
PLANO ESTRA TÉGICO DA UNIVERSIDADE DE COIMBRA    2019/2023
19
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
In an era of intense and rapid globalisation, in which 
organisations live in a clearly international context, the 
concept of territory is no longer merely physical and 
the notion of proximity gains a different expression 
and impact. In this highly dynamic and permanently 
changing context, the needs of the stakeholders  
are increasingly demanding, making it fundamental 
to continuously (re)assess the capacity they have 
to influence the University of Coimbra, directly or 
indirectly, and the relevance that the UC activities have 
for each of them. 
Involving and considering the expectations and needs 
of different stakeholders enables and maximises the 
quality of the Strategic Plan’s results, and provides 
simultaneously the alignment of all the parties involved. 
As this involvement is a success factor, the extensive 
process of listening –  expression of a continuous 
intercommunication with the academic community and 
external partners – was crucial.
Contextual analysis implies necessarily a thorough – self 
and hetero – diagnosis in order to know the strengths 
and weaknesses of the University, and the study of 
its surroundings, with the aim of being able to enjoy 
favourable circumstances and opportunities, and to 
anticipate risks and threats that may arise.
Furthermore, in face of the construction of a future 
path, the University of Coimbra will be better prepared 
if it uses prospective analysis and scenario building, 
which enables it to include the risk analysis component 
in its strategy. The use of these methodologies will 
help to illuminate the present towards the future, 
helping to choose the most appropriate options and 
alternatives at each moment.context 
analysis
21
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023stakeholders  
 and strategic  
 reflection  
sessions
Recognising stakeholders – people, groups, entities 
and organisations that affect and/or may be affected 
by the UC,  by its missions, activities and projects –, 
analysing their needs and expectations and assessing 
their positioning towards the University of Coimbra 
enables the organisation, monitoring and enhancement 
of the inherent correlations. The constant monitoring 
of the positioning of each stakeholder towards the UC 
gives support and objectivity to decision-making and 
strategic options. 
Being aware of the strategic character of stakeholders’ 
management and the importance of implementing its 
model for a consistent assessment of organisational 
performance, its mapping is reviewed annually within 
the scope of the University of Coimbra Management 
System. Fifty internal and external stakeholders were 
identified at the time of preparation of the 2019-2023 
Strategic Plan. 
After their identification, the assessment of the 
positioning of each stakeholder was made, bearing 
in mind the capacity to regulate and/or influence the 
activities to be carried out by the University of Coimbra 
(power) and the level of concern about the results and 
relevance or utility that the UC activities have for each 
of them (interest). Based on the categorisation of each 
stakeholder according to their position in the power/
interest binomial, the following groups were identified:
• High power and interest: stakeholders that should be 
actively managed, and demand a great commitment 
and effort by the UC towards their satisfaction;
• High power and low interest: the UC should make a 
sufficient effort to keep these stakeholders satisfied, 
but this effort should be measured so as not to be 
perceived as exaggerated;
• Low power and high interest: the UC should keep 
these stakeholders adequately informed;• Low power and interest: monitoring these 
stakeholders is important without incurring 
excessive communication.
Given the importance of the involvement and alignment 
of people, a broad, cross-cutting and multicultural 
participatory approach has been implemented, 
targeting audiences identified within the scope of the 
UC Management System as stakeholders with high 
power and interest. In this context, spaces and meeting 
moments were created for diagnosis, reflection and 
debate, developing multidirectional exchanges of 
perspectives and ideas between people who are part of 
the academic community and others who, despite not 
integrating this community, interconnect with it. The 
door to reflection, restlessness, and will to overcome 
was opened, gathering the academic community, the 
city, the region and the country in a set of strategic 
reflection sessions which embodied the aforementioned 
“The Future of the UC in our hands”, and contributed in 
general to a clearer vision of the future and the more 
adequate way to achieve it. 
Besides the faculties and other units of the UC, the 
strategic planning programme involved national 
and international students, teaching and research 
staff, technical staff, R&D units, alumni, companies 
and employers, entities and companies from the 
innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem, and, 
throughout the process, some of UC’s (national and 
international) main partners. 
The face-to-face sessions were based on a methodology 
centred on the brainstorming and discussion of ideas 
and tangible proposals concerning the pillars and 
mission axes of the UC, and focused on themes that are 
the concern of each universe, thus contributing to the 
enrichment of the University’s strategy for the 2019-
2023 quadrennium. 

STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 202323Notwithstanding this general objective of proposing 
tangible actions to be developed, there were moments 
of reflection in which specific themes were approached, 
according to the target audience. For instance, the 
participation of alumni, carried out by means of a survey, 
also enabled to take soundings about the perceptions 
of the skills to be privileged in the academic pathways 
of the students of the UC in the upcoming years, the 
strengthening of the connection and participation of 
the alumni in the University life, and the aspects to be 
prioritised in order to get a national and international 
visibility that may enhance the UC’s attractiveness. 
Companies and employers were also called to participate 
in a first phase (previous to the face-to-face reflection 
sessions) by means of a questionnaire, from which 
important information was obtained about the skills 
valued in staff selection, about the connection between 
the UC, society and the business community, and about 
the more or less positive aspects of the UC activity. 
The questionnaires presented to these two stakeholders 
were designed and constructed keeping in mind the 
need to compare and cross-check statistical data 
between groups to obtain a more solid and consistent 
contribution to the Plan. The soundings taken from 
partner entities by means of bilateral meetings has 
enabled, on the one hand, to hear their managers’ 
opinion about the current state of institutional relations 
and the image of the UC, and, on the other hand, about 
the priorities for the upcoming years, the challenges to 
be overcome and the opportunities to be seized.
In total the process involved around 1,780 participants, spread over nine face-to-face sessions, two soundings 
by means of a questionnaire and other feedback 
received by means of other channels – meetings with 
external partners, discussion papers sent by members 
of the General Council or suggestions sent to the UC 
strategic planning team. Nearly 2,000 ideas were 
created as well as more than 650 tangible actions, 244 
of which were considered to be the most important by 
the participants in the face-to-face sessions.
The strategic planning process for 2019-2023, 
organised by the Rector and the Rector’s T eam, and 
accompanied by the General Council, the Senate 
and the Student Ombudsman, also included the 
involvement of the Deans of the Faculties and other 
organisational units, and the Heads of other units. 
Therefore, a continuously monitored process has been 
developed which counted on the strong commitment of 
everyone, thus ensuring the involvement, participation 
and alignment in all its phases.
During the discussion period of the basic document of 
the 2019-2023 Strategic Plan, a set of contributions 
and suggestions was also collected, which reflect the 
involvement and interest of the academic community in 
actively participating in the definition of the UC strategy. 
The website of the Strategic Plan
–  www.uc.pt/planeamento  – which has been constantly 
updated, provides information concerning each session 
and will be a dynamic repository throughout the whole 
2019-2023 Strategic Plan cycle.
25
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
swot 
analysis
The definition of a strategy for the 
University of Coimbra requires an 
in-depth knowledge of the aspects 
in which it is stronger, and the 
constraints of its activity that must 
be overcome, as well as an analysis 
of the external environment which 
enables to identify opportunities 
that should be seized and 
anticipate potential threats to 
which it may be subject and  
which may constrain its action.The SWOT analysis, which is an important 
strategic management tool that enables to 
analyse the internal and external environment 
in an integrated way, was used to identify 
the University of Coimbra strengths and 
weaknesses, as well as the main opportunities 
and threats of its surroundings. 
At the level of the internal environment, the 
organisational dynamics were taken into 
account for the analysis, namely with regard 
to the resources, processes, means and 
strategies. In terms of the Strengths, the most 
positive aspects of the UC are highlighted in 
comparison with competing organisations. 
As for Weaknesses, the constraints of its 
activity are presented, which should be at least 
mitigated or, ideally, overcome. 
Through the analysis of the external 
environment, opportunities were identified, 
which should be enhanced in order to build 
defensive strategies against possible threats. 
In addition, some (potential) threats are 
presented, which, due to its direct or indirect 
connection to the activity of the UC, can 
constrain it in the near future. Therefore,  it 
is important to invest in their transformation 
into opportunities by means of a proactive and 
problems anticipating conduct.
Being aware of the threats to which it is 
exposed, the University of Coimbra should 
continue its efforts to reduce their impact and 
take advantage of its strengths by seizing the 
opportunities identified and investing strongly 
in strategies which enable to minimise the 
impact of weaknesses on its activity.
27
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023The prospective analysis enables a 
creative and structured reflection on 
ways of organising the future, thus 
contributing to the improvement 
of decision-making processes in 
the present and, simultaneously, 
constituting itself as a mobilising agent 
towards the desired future.
The prospective analysis is thus a complement to the 
strategy, and must not be confused with it; it constitutes 
itself as the search for the goal of the action, while the 
strategy refers to the way of conducting the action. 
The scenarios, as tools of the prospective analysis, 
are, in essence, narratives of possible, plausible, 
contrasted and relevant, reflected futures which reflect 
risks and opportunities inherent in specific strategic 
aspects. These ways of “organising futures” develop 
and maximise the processes of organisational learning 
and strategic design, and become extremely important 
as a support for decision-making, mainly in contexts 
of uncertainty. 
The methodology adopted is based on the search 
for a better and larger anticipation and preparation 
capacity of the UC for future challenges, and it enables 
to develop the sensitivity and strategic vision of the 
decision makers, and therefore boost and enhance the 
institutional adaptation capacity, which is intended 
to be fast and efficient. The Prospective analysis and 
scenarios exploration enable to frame the strategic 
environment and to perceive the context in which the 
University of Coimbra will compete and cooperate, thus 
contributing to ensuring more objectivity, coherence, 
robustness and sustainability to the strategic definition 
and its decision-making. 
Built on a scanning process of the strategic 
environment, the “Future of the UC in our hands” sessions that approached the prospective analysis and 
scenarios exploration have enabled to incorporate into 
the 2019-2023 Strategic Plan the analysis and mapping 
of the structural elements – forces of change, trends, 
uncertainties, opportunities and risks – comprising 
various aspects of the global external environment. 
Hence, the external forces, which the University does 
not control, and which will shape future dynamics in 
predictable and unpredictable ways, were identified, 
and it seems plausible that they may have a significant 
impact on the UC. The analysis was developed with 
2030 as a reference timeframe, based on the best 
of our knowledge today: today is when the strategic 
decisions are made, which will define the University of 
Coimbra of tomorrow. 
Then, the strategic impact of the uncertainties 
identified was analysed, as well as their evolutionary 
hypotheses (plausible, compared and challenging) 
and the direction in which society is heading (and at 
what speed). Having Future-oriented information 
reorganised, and built on the combination of shapes 
that the different uncertainties may assume, the 
starting scenario has been generated and designed. 
Afterwards, alternative scenarios, equally plausible 
and challenging, were generated from optimistic and 
pessimistic variations (the extreme world method). 
Finally, the implications were analysed and the most 
relevant strategic options were selected, which the 
UC should follow in each scenario, ranking them 
according to their impact (achievement of the best 
overall results across its missions) and the ease of their 
implementation (alignment with priorities, necessary 
resources, support or resistance from stakeholders).
In the second session about this theme, it was possible 
to include the perspective and contributions of 
representatives of companies with an eminently global 
stance on their area of business, and as such, actors 
that are closely related to the international context 
and knowledgeable about its demand and constant 
transformative dimension.prospective  
 and scenarios’  
 analysis

29
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
strategic 
formulation 
31
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023However well-defined a strategy may be, it will always 
be doomed to failure if its operationalisation is not duly 
implemented; and however well-designed it may be, 
this strategy will only succeed if it is implemented with 
people and for people. 
People are thus the most important component of an 
organisation and the most important component of 
the adopted strategy, which is why they will assume 
a prominent place in the model intended to be 
implemented, serving as a central axis of the movement 
of the mission pillars and, consequently, of the workings 
of the University. 
The remaining mission axes – Quality, Facilities, 
Funding and Communication – complete the reference 
framework in the support for the strategic formulation. 
The strategic referential for 2019-2023 thus presents 
four mission pillars which are related directly to the 
goals of the University of Coimbra, and five mission axes 
that are translated into the means necessary to achieve 
those goals. Furthermore, the UC assertion in levels of 
excellence presupposes the adoption of a perspective of 
sustainable management of its activities and resources, 
and of social responsibility in its performance. Thus, 
Sustainability and Social Responsibility represent 
attitudes, behaviours and actions that frame all the 
UC activity, are cross-cutting and should always be 
present in all its areas of activity. However, there are 
two dimensions which, despite being included in this 
concept, stand out for their relevance and emergence 
in the current context: the Environment and Climate 
Action and the Citizenship, Equality and Inclusiveness. 
Although they are not per se pillars or mission axes of 
the UC and are not included directly in any of them, they 
have a prominent place in the sphere surrounding the 
strategic reference framework. 
Finally, the cycle of planning, monitoring, permanent 
assessment of the strategy and feedback loop closes 
the reference framework, is included in all pillars, axes 
and areas, and ensures the respect for the principles of 
quality assurance and improvement in order to achieve 
excellence in the overall performance of the UC. This 
scope includes the permanent monitoring that the 
University of Coimbra has to undertake of the forces of 
change, trends and uncertainties of the global context 
in which it is included and permanently interacts with. 
Only in this way will the UC be able to assess, at each 
moment, the potential and the risks that surround it, 
influence and determine its strategic decisions.
The strategic reference framework for the 2019-2023 
quadrennium focuses on the Research & Innovation, 
T eaching and Societal Challenges mission pillars, in 
a clear correspondence to what is mentioned in the 
Statutes – higher education, knowledge production 
and transmission and dissemination of this knowledge 
to society, respectively. These three pillars thus assume 
a nuclear role, and, on the whole, they are the driving 
force of the University of Coimbra. 
T o achieve the vision of “being internationally recognised 
as a research university, in which the production of high 
quality knowledge influences the educational process 
and increases the sharing of knowledge with society (…)”,
 the strategic approach implies to consider a dynamic 
model of the three mission nuclear pillars, to the 
detriment of the traditional static model with three 
parallel columns. In addition, not only based on the 
defined vision, but also assuming its mission, the 
focus is on Research & Innovation – at the top of the 
three pillars – and it is strategic so that the University 
assumes an absolutely decisive role as a prime mover 
of society, thus transforming the lives of citizens and boosting the other areas of activity. 
In this dynamic model, there is also a balance between 
the core pillars: by causing Research & Innovation to 
move, the other two core pillars – T eaching and Societal 
Challenges – will move in the same direction and at the 
same speed. Similarly, any development in the T eaching 
pillar or the Societal Challenges pillar will cause the 
other two pillars to advance. 
Additionally, the ambition to become a research 
university will also contribute to the strengthening 
of a global University of Coimbra, which is why 
internationalisation is also a priority. With the aim 
of projecting the UC so that it gains a wider global 
recognition, Internationalisation is also a mission 
pillar, which, even if it is not nuclear per se, frames and 
contributes to the Research & Innovation, T eaching 
and Societal Challenges pillars, and whose presence is 
cross-cutting in the whole workings of the University. 
Since the mission pillars have been identified, it is 
necessary to define the operational resources that 
must be at the University’s entire disposal in order to 
accomplish the defined strategy – the mission axes.
33
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023strategic 
guidelines 
pillars
research & innovation 
teaching 
societal challenges
internationalisation

35
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
VISION
Investing judiciously and 
unequivocally in the conditions 
necessary to increase the 
quality and quantity of 
international level knowledge 
production with high 
impact on society.A true research university leads the way in the 
production of knowledge with greater impact on society 
and is internationally recognised for that, by attracting 
the best students, attracting the best professors and 
the best researchers, integrating reference research 
networks, establishing innovative and excellence 
partnerships with the business community and 
obtaining more funding. This is the level at which the 
University of Coimbra intends to position itself in the 
upcoming years. Therefore it will invest heavily, but 
judiciously, in the creation of conditions that will enable 
to reach a production of knowledge with high impact on 
society, thus helping to respond to societal challenges. 
The Societal challenges, which are thematic by nature, 
require consistent responses that only an approach 
through interdisciplinary strategic areas will enable. The 
increase in partnerships, the participation in reference 
networks, and the strengthening and diversification 
of scientific projects are important action drivers, but 
they require technical support to be strengthened. 
Stimulation, enhancement and visibility of scientific 
production and scientific and technological capacity 
are key factors in a research University. The production 
of knowledge with high impact on society implies 
necessarily the activation of the UC innovation and 
entrepreneurship ecosystem, in a work to be developed 
along with privileged and strategic partners.research & 
innovation
GOALS
increase by 50-100 per cent  
the number of articles in top 5 per cent  
scientific journals [Web of Science]  
increase by 20-40 per cent the number of articles  
in top 25 per cent scientific journals [Web of Science]  
increase by 100-200 per cent the number of books published or book 
chapters published in the 1st quartile Book Series [Web of Science] 
increase by 100-200 per cent the number of scientific works referenced in 
Altmetrics
reach 45-55 million euros per year of funding by contract research 
programmes [triennial rolling average]
increase by 100-150 per cent the turnover in contracts of specialised 
services provision
increase by 25-30 per cent the number of submitted provisional 
patent applications 
increase by 50-100 per cent the turnover of spin-offs and start-ups 
attract 7-10 large companies to establish competence and/or 
operation centres in Coimbra, in close collaboration with 
the UC [turnover > 25 million  euros]
37
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023promoting interdisciplinarity by 
means of the creation of strategic 
areas, with multidisciplinary 
approaches able to respond to 
societal challenges
The production of more creative 
and consistent knowledge to 
respond to societal challenges 
increasingly requires the alignment, 
coordination, and aggregation 
of multiple disciplinary areas. By 
means of the creation of Strategic 
Areas, which are interdisciplinary 
by nature and thematic by calling, 
the communication and dialogue 
between R&D units and the  
congregation of professors and 
researchers from different areas 
will be promoted, and consequently 
the synergies and cross-reference 
of the different areas of knowledge 
will be enhanced. The aim is 
thus to ensure the alignment of 
the potential of the UC with the 
needs of the region, the country, 
Europe and the world, with the 
Interdisciplinary Research Institute 
as a cross-platform. Strategic 
Areas, which are essentially  
virtual entities (and correspond 
to a higher level of organisation 
that enables the aggregation of 
R&D units), adaptable and flexible 
by nature will have structured 
institutional support, allocate 
qualified personnel and count on 
the monitoring by international 
panels of consultants, which has a 
direct impact on the establishment 
of partnerships, the promotion 
of internationalisation and the 
development of interdisciplinary 
and transdisciplinary projects. 
The Strategic Areas should also 
contemplate the existence of  
Doctoral Schools, thus making the 
link between research and teaching 
and enabling an increase in the 
efficiency in relevant cross-cutting 
training of third cycle students, who 
are the future researchers.Strategic Areas are considered to 
be those scientific areas in which 
the University of Coimbra has a 
considerable critical mass and an 
installed capacity enabling it to 
present a strong and differentiated 
offer in comparison to other similar 
institutions and, simultaneously, they 
may be emerging areas with visible 
international expansion and aligned 
with societal challenges. These are 
inclusive areas, representative of 
the reality of the UC and potentially 
capable of attracting competitive 
funding. Once the relevant scientific 
and social problems have been 
identified as well as the specific areas 
and sub-areas with growth capacity 
at the level of research and teaching, 
based on an internal mapping work 
of the R&D units, research projects, 
strategic projects and bibliometric 
metrics, it was possible to identify 
five Strategic Areas, aligned with 
Horizon Europe and the United 
Nation Agenda 2030:
- Health; 
- Climate, Energy and Mobility;
- Natural Resources, Agrifood 
and Environment; 
- Digital, Industry and Space; 
- Heritage, Culture and 
Inclusive Society. 
stimulating scientific activity, by 
enhancing the presence of the 
University of Coimbra in scientific 
networks, diversifying external 
funding and strengthening support 
in the search for opportunities and 
partnerships, in the submission 
of applications and in the 
execution of projects.
In order for researchers to be 
able to channel their energies 
towards scientific activity, effective 
support for the preparation and 
submission of applications and for 
the implementation of approved 
projects needs to be strengthened. 
It is also important to strengthen 
the search, identification,  
screening and dissemination of competitive and diversified funding 
opportunities, thus contributing 
to raising funds from other  
sources besides those provided 
by FCT (Portuguese Foundation 
for Science and T echnology). This 
diversification necessarily implies 
the development of more public 
and private partnerships, a greater 
participation in national and 
international networks, and also the 
strengthening of the applications of 
institutional projects.
The investment in the strengthening 
of support technical structures will 
contribute to enhancing the success 
of applications and, consequently, 
to increase the number of projects 
approved, the volume of funding 
and the support for the selective 
choice of partners. This specialised 
and permanent monitoring based 
on proximity and combined with 
an internal simplification of  
procedures, will enable researchers 
to devote themselves more  
intensely and more focused to 
their activity. 
The aforementioned investment 
also implies the creation of a 
structure for monitoring and 
assessment of the research  
carried out at the UC, and the 
development of actions such as the 
implementation of an information 
system for research.
boosting scientific production and 
promoting its dissemination, by 
enhancing intellectual property 
and creating incentive systems for 
professors and researchers with high 
impact scientific activity
The enhancement of the results of 
scientific research is an essential 
premise for the development of 
applied research and for stimulating 
scientific activity in qualitative and 
quantitative terms. Those who 
produce and publish high-impact 
scientific knowledge, who develop 
more strategic partnerships, and 
those who have more capacity 
to attract funding should see 
their commitment encouraged 
and their merit recognised.  
Therefore, incentive measures 
will be created, which enable 
greater availability of professors 
for research and positively  discriminate between professors 
and researchers according to 
their scientific productivity. As for 
R&D units, it should be possible 
for them to analyse, in absolute 
and relative terms, the evolution 
of the quality and quantity of the 
publications affiliated to them in 
indexed journals. For this analysis, 
mechanisms should be developed 
for the continuous and, if possible, 
automated collection of relevant 
information on scientific production 
in real time from different  
databases representing different 
scientific areas.
In order to enhance the scientific 
research, supporting and promoting 
initiatives for its dissemination 
is also essential, both inside and 
outside the UC, thus contributing 
towards the promotion and sharing 
of knowledge with society at large, 
its national and international 
recognition and towards the 
presence and active participation 
in scientific reference networks. 
The achievement of this goal also 
implies the reinforcement of the 
interaction between organisations 
of scientific and technological 
dissemination and connection 
to the UC Group’s community, 
namely the Science Museum, 
the Botanical Garden, the Centre 
for Living Science “Rómulo de 
Carvalho”, the Geophysical and 
Astronomical Observatory and the 
Infante D. Henrique Exploratory – 
Live Science Centre.
mapping, updating and ensuring 
visibility to the scientific and 
technological installed capacity in 
the University of Coimbra Group
One of the preceding steps  
to promote interdisciplinarity  
implies to know well the scientific 
and technological competence 
developed by each R&D unit, 
each research group and each 
researcher. Likewise, a correct 
external dissemination presupposes 
a good knowledge of what is done 
internally. Thus, the mapping will 
be carried out and a portfolio of 
the installed competence will be 
created regarding the scientific and 
technological capacity, not only of 
the UC, but also of the UC Group. 
This information will be available 
online to all internal and external 
stakeholders therefore ensuring 
visibility to the research lines and competence specific of each R&D 
group or unit and the services 
that can be provided using the 
UC Scientific and T echnological 
Platforms, thus contributing 
to enhancing internal and  
external synergies.
At the equipment level, the existing 
technology platforms are intended 
to be made known, which bring 
together a set of state-of-the-
art scientific equipment aimed 
to the research and the service 
provision, and also available to 
support the extended R&D network 
and industry, in a variety of areas 
ranging from basic to applied 
research. In this way, knowledge 
and access to equipment will be 
quickly and efficiently facilitated 
as well as the enhancement of 
synergies between research groups 
or between research groups and 
external partners.
This inventory will also contribute to 
identifying the needs of upgrading 
the scientific equipment with 
regard both to the modernisation 
of existing equipment and to 
new purchases to be made by 
means of funding for scientific 
equipment retrofit.
consolidating the innovation 
ecosystem of the University 
of Coimbra, by supporting 
entrepreneurship, business 
incubation and acceleration, based 
on the research undertaken
Knowledge production with a high 
impact on society necessarily 
implies a consolidation of the 
University of Coimbra’s innovation 
ecosystem, with a focus on  
encouraging entrepreneurship and 
the creation of companies based 
on the research undertaken by 
professors and researchers, which 
will enable to reinforce contributions 
to local, regional, national and even 
international development.
The creation of an organisation 
focused on the relationship with 
the business community (in its 
multiple aspects) will enable a 
profound transformation in the 
way the UC will relate to society. 
The INOV C programme should 
play an even more decisive role 
as the bottom of the innovation 
pyramid in the central region 
of Portugal and participation in 
international entrepreneurship support networks will be deepened. 
Since it is important to strongly 
support and value entrepreneurship 
among students and young  
entrepreneurs, by stimulating their 
ideas, funding their projects and 
enhancing the creation of their 
business, the focus on collaborative 
activities will be maintained (with 
ignition scholarships, proofs 
of concept, among others), as 
well as on innovation contests 
(Arrisca C and Ineo Start), on 
projects such as “Académica 
Start UC”, on social innovation 
(Social4aLife) and on valuing 
innovation and entrepreneurship 
extracurricular activities.
Within the scope of the creation 
of spin-offs and the business 
incubation and acceleration, 
there will be the consolidation of 
mechanisms, the increase in the 
effectiveness of the relations with 
other UC Group entities and the 
work in close coordination with the 
privileged and strategic partners. 
This is the case not only of the 
incubators of the UC innovation 
ecosystem – IPN, Biocant (in 
Cantanhede), SerQ (in Sertã) and 
the Incubator of Sea & Industry (in 
Figueira da Foz) – but also of the 
business community and other 
entities such as municipalities. 
In order for professors and  
researchers to be able to  
devote themselves more to  
this aspect, it is necessary to 
clearly establish their rights and 
duties, create conditions for their 
enhancement and recognise  
the role of entrepreneurship in 
their assessment.
The UC is committed to developing 
its relationship with the business 
community also in terms of  
innovation. Therefore, the  
consolidation of the UC as a prime 
mover in this area will also imply 
a close coordination with large 
companies, assuming thus an 
active role in attracting to Coimbra 
competency and/or operation 
centres – the first partnership was 
formalised in September 2019 
between the University of Coimbra 
and Altice Labs. In this way, the 
research and innovation generated 
in the academia will be transferred 
to these partnerships and the 
involved partners will work together 
to develop adv anced solutions.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
39
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
VISION
Rationalising the pedagogical offer 
in light of “Bologna” in a logic of 
efficiency and close coordination 
with research, by promoting 
student-centred teaching for the 
acquisition of skills, developing 
innovative pedagogical projects 
capable of increasing the quality 
of the teaching-learning process 
and promoting the attraction 
of new audiences.
Focused on the wholeness of the Bologna Process and 
on an education system based on the development 
of students’ skills, in which all aspects that enhance 
the acquisition of cross-cutting skills are valued, the 
University of Coimbra is aware of the importance of 
introducing new pedagogical methodologies. There 
is an approach centred on new teaching-learning 
processes and tools anchored in pedagogical innovation 
strategies, which focus on teacher training, the use of 
information and distance learning technologies and 
on the approach to contexts and real problems. The 
focus of the teaching-learning processes should be the 
student, thus enabling a process of flexible learning and 
cross-cutting of knowledge.
A success factor for internationally competitive quality 
training is the capacity of the UC to adapt to the 
rapid and constant changes in the labour market and 
the awareness that the graduates’ skills acquisition 
no longer necessarily, or exclusively, results from a 
traditional academic pathway. The ongoing interaction 
with the business community and other employers is 
essential to identify opportunities and meeting needs.
The adaptation also implies finding excellence 
responses to the educational needs of new audiences 
and lifelong learning, and strengthening and stimulating 
the link between teaching and research, with third cycle 
students taking a relevant role as a basis of the research 
pyramid. Besides the promotion of the quality of the 
PhD academic training, it is essential to act on the 
attraction and recruitment of the best students, which 
implies an increase in the attractiveness of the UC, an 
issue that is cross-cutting in all cycles of studies.GOALS
increase by 30-50 per cent the attraction rate 
of the 25 per cent best candidates who choose the 
UC as their 1st option in the National Contest for Access and 
Admission to Higher Education
reach 1,2-1,3 in the demand satisfaction index as 1st option in the 
National Contest for Access and Admission to Higher Education 
increase by 20-25 per cent the number of PhD students 
reduce by 50-75 per cent the effective withdrawal rate
increase by 20-40 per cent the interdisciplinary and cross-cutting 
training offer [degree and non-degree courses]
increase by 50-100 per cent the number of distance-learning 
courses [degree and non- degree courses]
increase by 25-50 per cent the number of students readmitted to 
the UC for lifelong learning and knowledge updating
reach 2,500-3,500 students per year in internships and training 
experiences in business and professional contexts
 teaching
41
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023expanding training opportunities, 
by meeting the needs of new 
audiences, offering different and 
attractive programmes for lifelong 
learning and implementing micro-
awarding of  credits options
The University of Coimbra will 
expand the opportunities of  
training experiences that tend 
to be more flexible, personalised 
and accessible, by always aiming 
to ensure that its audience meets 
their needs and with a high level of 
quality. As a result of the reflection 
undertaken on what higher  
education will be in 2030, the need 
for this adaptation and preparation 
for the future was clearly identified 
as well as the conviction of the 
importance of having a more 
diversified, differentiated and 
more attractive training offer, 
including, for instance, the micro-
awarding of credits.
The University is aware of the 
importance of the reconversion and 
requalification of human capital, the 
knowledge updating and retraining 
and the articulated management of 
different knowledge. Consequently, 
training programmes aimed at 
lifelong learning will be diversified 
by developing the concept of a 
senior university and increasing 
the non-degree courses offer in 
different areas of knowledge, based 
on the scientific matrix of excellence 
that characterises the UC.
The dissemination of the  
training offer focused on the 
needs of different audiences 
will be strengthened and a more 
efficient recruitment policy will be 
implemented. The attraction of new 
audiences also implies to enhance 
the training opportunities that 
include distance-learning offers, 
whose model will be reappraised. In 
addition, the creation of conditions 
to introduce new technologies, 
tools and methodologies will 
be endeavoured, as well as, 
simultaneously, the focus on the 
distance-learning with a face-to-
face attendance component.strengthening the proximity 
and permanent interaction 
with the business community 
and other entities, by adjusting 
and co-creating training offers, 
ensuring workplace learning and 
promoting employability
The University of Coimbra will 
strengthen the permanent  
interaction with the business 
community, which enables it 
to identify opportunities and 
respond to market needs, by  
adapting training contents and 
thus promoting employability. 
The curricula will be increasingly 
attractive, more comprehensive 
and aimed at the labour market.
Stimulating the development of 
teaching activities in coordination 
with the business community is 
crucial – curricular units contents, 
open classes, seminars, academic 
works, research projects, master’s 
dissertations and PhD theses, 
internships –, by encouraging the 
combination of theoretical and 
practical contexts and awarding 
credits to extracurricular training 
and activities. The interaction 
with the business community will 
enable relevant contributions to 
responding to real problems and 
societal challenges.
The UC will contribute to bringing 
students closer to companies 
since the beginning of their cycle 
of studies and throughout their 
academic pathway, by working 
together with strategic partners, 
such as the Academic Association 
of Coimbra (AAC- Students’ Union) 
and the student centres and/or 
junior companies.
In order to promote employability, 
the support given to students and 
recent graduates concerning their 
connection with and integration 
in the labour market will be 
improved, by strengthening the 
area of career opportunities 
and creating a platform for an 
integrated management of the 
actions developed by the UC, 
by solidly involving alumni and, 
simultaneously, developing an 
institutional policy of demand for 
internships and empl oyability fairs.promoting the quality of PhD 
training and increasingly recruit 
better PhD students, thus  
recognising the importance of the 
third cycle in knowledge production
Third cycle students play a  
very relevant role in knowledge 
production and are a mix of  
students and researchers since 
they are the bottom of the  
research pyramid. Recruiting 
more and better PhD students is 
a priority, and in order to achieve 
it, attractiveness factors must 
be increased: an internationally 
recognised research, partnerships 
and presence in international 
networks and good welcome 
conditions – well-structured PhD 
programmes, complementary  
training in transferable skills, good 
working conditions and research 
scholarships. By means of the 
creation of Doctoral Schools, 
included in the Strategic Areas, the 
efficiency in the training of third 
cycle students will be increased, and 
synergies and more efficient levels 
of organisation will be created.
The quality of the third cycle 
training will be enhanced, being, 
therefore, necessary to increase its 
completion rate within the expected 
time and, simultaneously, to 
reduce the withdrawal rate. T o this 
end, sharing and complementary 
training for PhD theses supervisors 
will be essential as well as  
encouraging the active involvement 
of the third cycle community in the 
workings and improvement of PhD 
programmes. This involvement will 
include the PhD@UC initiative, the 
organisation of annual meetings 
of PhD programmes and the 
promotion and monitoring of  
the employability of PhD degree 
holders, by creating connections 
with external entities.innovating and adapting  
pedagogical models to 4.0 
teaching, by offering excellence in 
the assimilation of knowledge and 
skills and in the r esults achieved 
Effectively centring the teaching-
learning process on the student 
requires the development  
of innovative pedagogical  
(interdisciplinary) projects that 
combine the focus on disciplinary 
knowledge with the acquisition 
of skills essential to the new  
challenges of society, including, 
among others, behavioural and 
communication skills. 
With the “Initiative for Innovation 
and Learning Improvement”, the 
sharing of innovative pedagogical 
practices will be promoted and the 
pedagogical training of professors 
(initial and continuous training) 
will be boosted, by organising 
training courses that also include 
the specific needs of the third cycle 
of studies. Curricula need to be 
rethought, new educational models 
and innovative methodologies 
need to be actively incorporated 
and a collaborative teaching needs 
to be promoted, by introducing 
flipped classrooms and stimulating 
reflection, critical thinking,  
discussion and problem solving, 
including responses to societal 
challenges. T aking advantage of 
new technologies will be crucial, 
which will also imply to study the 
introduction of distance learning 
tools in mainstream education. 
The University of Coimbra has to 
be recognised for its innovation 
and pedagogical success, by  
ensuring that its students get an 
excellence preparation for their personal and professional life, thus 
becoming critical and proactive 
citizens in society, prepared for the 
challenges of the future. Through 
the creation of the “Pedagogical 
Activities Observatory”, the  
expectations and results of the 
students’ educational pathway will 
be accompanied – by monitoring 
relevant issues such as pedagogical 
quality, academic success/failure, 
withdrawal or employability,  
therefore enabling a better action 
in these areas –, the pedagogical 
management organisations will 
be granted rights and information 
systems will be adapted to existing 
and emerging needs.
attracting the best students and 
enhancing the cross-cutting 
acquisition of competences, by 
offering students an excellence 
preparation and taking research 
activities into consideration
Given the constant and rapid 
changes in the labour market 
and the inherent change in the 
skills pyramid, it is crucial that the 
University of Coimbra responds to 
present and future challenges. This 
adaptation implies the awareness 
that the acquisition of skills goes 
beyond a common academic 
pathway, therefore enhancing 
and awarding credits to the 
diversification of skills.
The implementation of the stimuli 
to the cross-cutting acquisition of 
skills will imply the development of 
interdisciplinary abilities – namely 
behavioural, as well as linguistic or 
technological innovation abilities 
–, the flexibilisation of study  
programmes, the enhancement of the choice of interdisciplinary 
courses and the creation of systems 
for awarding of credits to other 
experiences and interdisciplinary 
and integrative projects.
The UC will provide its students 
with opportunities to engage them 
in research activities and in the 
process of knowledge building, 
by creating a research ecosystem 
which includes students since the 
first cycle of studies, therefore 
contributing to their training, 
namely to the development of 
analytical and operational skills, 
besides the encouragement of 
critical thinking, thus enabling 
students to contribute to solving 
real problems and responding to 
societal challenges. 
Apart from building talents, by 
giving students the opportunity 
to exceed their own expectations, 
the UC will attract the best 
students by focusing on a more 
efficient institutional recruitment 
policy for the first cycle, therefore 
strengthening and diversifying 
the interaction with the pre-
university audience and the school 
community, reappraising the 
current “Summer University” model.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
43
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
An open and global university must include societal 
challenges as its mission pillar, by prioritising 
knowledge sharing and assuming an unequivocal 
will to respond to problems that are concerns for 
society, as advocated by the 2030 United Nations 
Agenda. Both the great diversity and complexity of 
societal challenges, which cross-cut different areas of 
knowledge, and the imperative of a research university 
to be involved in the search for solutions are a unique 
opportunity for the University of Coimbra, and open 
new perspectives in its relationship with society. Hence, 
the UC must act by anticipating challenges, react 
by detecting challenges, and interact by helping to 
overcome challenges. Additionally, it will play a part, in 
a very relevant way, in multiple areas of its activity, in a 
dynamic interaction and permanent dialogue with the 
various actors of the city and the region, thus increasing 
its institutional presence in the territory. The UC will 
get back in contact with national decision centres 
and will have an active voice in order to influence 
decisions. It will create national and international 
collaborative networks, by involving the business 
community, sectorial associations, municipalities, other 
entities and institutions, not forgetting the important 
role of its alumni. 
It will also promote good practice and knowledge 
sharing with the scientific community and with 
society at large by means of the consolidation of the 
institutional policy of open science.
Therefore, the UC will contribute to promoting the 
convergence of action and enhance the capacity to 
respond to societal challenges.VISION
Creating conditions to act, 
react and interact with society 
in its different aspects by 
means of knowledge sharing 
and open science, thus 
contributing to the sustainable 
development in line with the 
United Nations 2030 Agenda societal 
challenges
GOALS
achieve 100 per cent in the implementation of the Digital Ecosystem 
Interoperability Plan (UC Digitalis)
increase by 100-150 per cent the number of students integrated in UC 
cultural activities
increase by 25-50 per cent the number of high performance student 
athletes
increase by 30-50 per cent the number of UC student athletes
increase by 25-50 per cent the number of members of the academic 
community participating in the UC Games
reach 30,000-35,000 members in the UC Alumni Network 
increase by 20-30 per cent the visitable area of the UC T ouristic 
Circuit [m2]
45
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023promoting interface and knowledge 
sharing with the business 
community, other entities and 
society at large, thus actively 
contributing to responding to 
societal challenges
The relationship with the business 
community is one of the biggest 
challenges that the University 
of Coimbra has to overcome 
with sagacity and firmness.  
The development of an agile, 
professionalised and proactive 
organisation that acts as liaison 
agent with companies and  
sectorial associations (business, 
commercial and industrial) will 
be crucial. In addition, such 
organisation promotes dialogue, 
facilitates contact and intensifies 
the interaction between those 
companies/sectorial associations 
and the academic community, works 
to detect and manage collaboration 
opportunities and provides an 
integrated offer of services (acting 
in the intervention, relationship and 
communication dimensions).
Networking with the UC Group 
entities will undoubtedly enable 
to obtain added value in the 
response to societal challenges, 
since, by nature, these require 
the alignment, coordination  
and aggregation of multiple 
disciplinary areas – measures that 
are envisaged in other pillars and 
axes, such as the involvement 
of students in problem solving, 
the mapping of the scientific and 
technological capacity installed in 
the UC Group or the development of 
communication strategies that give 
visibility to the UC’s performance 
– and as such they will contribute 
to encouraging the relationship of 
the University with society. Support 
to and recognition of researchers, 
who significantly contribute to the 
development of knowledge sharing 
with the business community, 
will be boosted.
The creation of a “Public Policy 
Observatory” will promote the 
active participation of the UC in 
the formulation, monitoring and 
assessment of public policies, thus 
increasing its influence on the 
national scene concerning subjects 
that directly and indirectly affect 
society, people and the UC missions.developing and intensifying 
synergies with the various actors of 
the city and region, by enhancing 
the presence of the University of 
Coimbra in the region by means 
of partnerships and collaborative 
networks that contribute to 
sustainable development.
Action, reaction and interaction 
with society imply a strategic 
commitment of institutional  
interaction with the main entities 
of the city and the region, for the 
success of common projects in the 
search for joint solutions. 
The dialogue and the strategic 
partnership with the Municipality 
of Coimbra will be increased, 
endeavouring to provide a joint 
public intervention to the city 
in a wide range of domains. One 
example is the organisation of joint 
events, just as it happened with 
the organisation of the European 
Universities Games. Other focus 
areas are the co-operation in 
the cultural area – for instance, 
Coimbra’s application for the title 
of European Capital of Culture in 
2027 or regular cultural initiatives 
such as the Ano Zero Biennial –, 
the tourism promotion of the city 
and heritage management, which 
includes urban rehabilitation. 
Nonetheless, other areas cannot be 
forgotten, such as the development 
of community projects with  
impact on the quality of life and 
sustainability of the city, and the 
innovation and entrepreneurship. 
Similarly, the UC will endeavour to 
attract reference companies to the 
city and the region by increasing 
the qualified labour supply.
Working in close collaboration with 
the University Hospital Centre of 
Coimbra will be essential to the 
boosting of the Academic Clinical 
Centre of Coimbra, in order to 
enhance the focus on the strategic 
option “Coimbra Capital da Saúde” 
(Coimbra Capital of Health), and 
promote initiatives that enable 
to assert Coimbra as a significant 
partner in the M8 Alliance (Coimbra 
Health) and EIT Health.
Further initiatives and joint  
projects will be developed with  
the Regional Coordination and Development Commission of the 
Centre of Portugal and with the 
Intermunicipal Community of  
Coimbra Region, thus improving 
the collaboration and coordination 
with these entities, namely in the 
search for solutions and definition 
of a strategy for the region, thereby 
contributing to territorial cohesion.
Recognising and enhancing the 
strategic axis Viseu-Coimbra-Leiria 
as the heart of the central region 
of Portugal is vital. Therefore, 
the partnerships with other  
higher education institutions 
in the city and region and with 
other entities positioned in this 
axis are emphasised.
The expansion of the UC presence 
in local associations, as it happens 
with “Coimbra Mais Futuro”, the 
connection with municipalities 
of the region, the development 
of collaborative networks with 
the regional business community 
and with other entities are other 
strategic action drivers.
socially and culturally enhancing the 
heritage and tourism, encouraging 
cultural and artistic activity and 
promoting university sports as an 
element of cohesion between the 
academia and the region
The University of Coimbra holds 
exceptional social, cultural and 
artistic attributes, recognised 
nationally and internationally, 
and must therefore focus on 
their promotion, enhancement 
and dissemination. 
The pathway to follow is taking 
culture as an intention, an  
indelible mark of the progress of 
organisations and civilisations, 
and rethinking the cultural policy 
of the UC, by focusing it on society 
and not on itself, with a polycentric 
programme planning, integrated 
in and coordinated with other  
reference cultural forces. The 
creative capacity and cultural 
practice of the academic community 
will be fostered and the creation of 
projects will be endeavoured, in 
which standards are recognised, 
by prioritising the activities quality 
to the detriment of their quantity, 
for instance the adjustment of the length of the Cultural Week by 
refocusing it around events of clear 
cultural prominence and significant 
artistic expression. The significant 
involvement in initiatives promoted 
by partners, and included in a 
regular cultural action, will be 
maintained – in this level of action 
are included initiatives such as the 
Ano Zero Biennial or the Sons da 
Cidade , among many others –, and 
the strengthening of their outreach 
in national and international 
networks will be endeavoured.
The UC heritage, in its material 
and immaterial aspects, will be 
enhanced socially and culturally, 
by respecting the commitments 
associated with the application 
of the “University of Coimbra - 
Alta and Sofia” to UNESCO World 
Heritage Site and enhancing the 
social and cultural value of facilities 
such as the Botanical Garden, the 
Gil Vicente Academic Theatre, the 
Science Museum or the Academic 
Museum. This will be achieved by 
strengthening dialogue platforms 
between heritage, culture, science 
and art, thus enabling the legacy 
of the past to be a vehicle for 
innovation and a guarantor of a 
creative and sustainable future.
T ourism has an intangible  
component that should enhance 
the UC brand: conditions will be 
created and measures will be 
implemented, which enable a 
quality tourism activity. In addition, 
a more attractive, diversified 
and integrated heritage and 
cultural offer will be designed, 
in coordination with the city and 
the region, and ensuring the 
preservation of the existing heritage 
and coexisting sustainably with the 
daily routine of the academia.
T ransforming the UC into the 
best and most active European 
University in university sport is the 
goal to be achieved, by promoting 
and enhancing the students’ sports 
practice, which will contribute to 
an increase in the attraction of 
national and international student 
athletes. The University of Coimbra 
Games will be extended in order 
to promote sport and physical 
activity within the whole academic 
community and modalities of  adapted sport will be created.
The Academic Association of  
Coimbra (AAC- Students’ Union), 
its autonomous bodies, cultural 
and sports sections, and units 
will play a role of paramount 
importance within the scope of this 
strategic guideline, by means of 
the development of joint strategic 
projects and other actions to 
promote sports practice and 
cultural activities in the city.
strengthening the bilateral 
relationship between the University 
of Coimbra and its former  
students, as a hub of ideas and 
experiences, by enhancing the 
presence of these alumni
According to the soundings made 
within the scope of the planning 
process, the alumni  consider that the 
quality of teaching, the relevance 
of the research, the quality of the 
teaching staff and the educational 
offer are the most visible aspects of 
the University of Coimbra.
Therefore, the alumni of the UC are 
the best ambassadors to promote 
the excellence of the institution, 
which represents an opportunity 
that can and should be enhanced.
The presence of former students in 
the life of the UC will be reinforced. 
On that account, rethinking and 
promoting the relationship with this 
audience is essential, by investing 
in a proactive communication and 
organising structured (cultural, 
scientific and business) initiatives 
with their involvement, such 
as lectures and/or professional 
workshops, focus groups  
approaching specific topics, forums 
for debate and experience sharing, 
and other activities that enhance 
the potential of this relationship.
Fostering the provision of services 
and benefits that meet the needs 
and expectations of the alumni is 
essential, namely by means of the 
offer of relevant lifelong learning, 
with special conditions.
In addition, within the scope of 
the soundings that was made, 
the former students, who are 
currently entrepreneurs, expressed 
their willingness to contribute to 
the increase in the collaboration 
with the business community  
(participation in the revision of the study programmes, involvement 
in research projects or support 
of young entrepreneurship)  
and to collaborate on  
mentoring programmes.
consolidating the institutional 
policy of open science, by promoting 
good practices and the sharing 
of knowledge with the scientific 
community and society at large
The University of Coimbra must 
manage and disseminate the 
knowledge produced in a socially 
responsible manner, by assuming 
a concerted alignment between 
the academic research and a wide 
network of actors from the internal 
and external community.
Disseminating the concept of  
open science among the scientific 
community, society and companies 
becomes mandatory to expand 
the recognition and increase of 
international relevance, thus 
enabling to bring science to 
the right interlocutors, and, 
consequently, increasing the 
social and economic impact of the 
knowledge produced.
Consolidating the open science 
policy will imply to review the 
policy adopted by the UC, promote 
initiatives to enhance culture 
and open science practices, by 
encouraging open access scientific 
production and publication, and 
rethink the role of the Estudo Geral 
(General Study – Digital Repository 
for Scientific Production of the UC) 
within the scope of the performance 
appraisal of the professors.
The role of the University Press 
will be enhanced, including the 
development of the UC Digitalis 
project, which is an open access 
multidisciplinary and multilingual 
digital platform – the largest in 
Portuguese – which enables the 
sharing of scientific publications 
and is perfectly aligned with the 
European recommendations  
and with the National  
Open Science Policy.
The development of projects 
involving citizens in scientific 
projects (citizen science) by means 
of collaborative platforms will 
also reinforce the UC commitment 
to open science. STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
47
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
A research university is by nature a university in 
which internationalisation reaches very high levels, 
and a greater international exposure will increase the 
attractiveness levels of the University of Coimbra. 
This increase in attractiveness will cause a good 
impact on Research & Innovation – more quality 
projects, attraction of more high quality researchers 
and professors, more funding and more international 
recognition –, in Education – more international 
students, more internationalised courses, more 
professors with international pedagogical experience – 
and in Societal Challenges – sharing of knowledge and 
contribution to a fairer and more global society.
A strategic and massive focus will be placed on 
internationalisation as a mission pillar and the 
internationalisation policy will be revisited and 
strengthened, hence it is crucial to sensitise the 
academic community to its importance for the future of 
the UC. This focus will thus be placed on three aspects 
– political, scientific and of people.VISION 
Asserting the global position 
of the University of Coimbra 
concerning the different 
mission pillars, by intensifying 
its presence in international 
networks, seeking strategic 
partnerships and maintaining its 
leadership within the scope of the 
Lusophone community.internationalisation
GOALS
increase by 30-50 per cent the number of students under 
the International Student Statute
increase by 20-25 per cent the outgoing mobility  
[students, professors and researchers, non-teaching staff]  
increase by 10-15 per cent the incoming mobility  
 [students, professors and researchers, non-teaching staff]
increase by 20-50 per cent the number of international events 
increase by 30-50 per cent the volume of funding by 
contracts in international projects
49
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023strengthening the leadership of the 
promotion of Lusophone community, 
its culture and identity matrix, and 
intensifying the relations with the 
CPLP countries, thus consolidating 
the position of the University of 
Coimbra as a reference institution 
for the Portuguese language
The unique and irreplaceable 
historical foundation of the  
University of Coimbra within the 
scope of the Lusophone community 
must be exploited and enhanced. 
The UC must therefore continue 
to strengthen its responsibilities 
concerning this subject that is 
so delicate to the culture and 
identity matrix of more than 200 
million people who share the same 
language on different continents.
The UC will intensify its  
collaboration with the countries 
of the Community of Portuguese-
Speaking Countries (CPLP) – by 
contributing to their union by 
means of not only the culture and 
language, but also the heritage 
of Portuguese influence – and will 
develop specific actions to improve 
the University attractiveness to 
students from this Community.
In particular with the Portuguese 
Speaking African Countries, the 
Coimbra Health’s commitment 
within the M8 Alliance (Global 
Health) will be implemented, 
(already existing or new) mobility 
partnerships will be encouraged and 
platforms will be developed with 
universities from these countries to 
promote distance learning courses 
in different areas of knowledge.
In addition, within this context, the 
University Press – and UC Digitalis 
– will consolidate their leadership role in the national scene and in the 
Lusophone world at large. The UC 
will continue to focus on non-degree 
courses in Portuguese language 
and culture and on the promotion 
of Casa da Lusofonia, and a greater 
dissemination of its activities 
related to Lusophone community 
should also be undertaken.
maintaining the international focus 
on emerging economies, by boosting 
the Coimbra Group of Brazilian 
Universities and strengthening the 
relations with other countries
The University of Coimbra is the 
university which has more students 
of Brazilian nationality outside 
Brazil and, being aware of the 
increasingly strong competition, it 
will seek to reinforce this position. 
In order to achieve this, it is crucial 
to boost new partnerships and 
revitalise the Coimbra Group of 
Brazilian Universities, by promoting 
joint initiatives of variable geometry 
and enhancing the UC role as this 
Group’s European platform.
As for emerging economies, the 
focus is on China, hence the 
UC endeavours to deepen its 
relationship with institutions in 
this country. The China @ UC 
interdisciplinary initiative will be 
consolidated and the potential 
of the presence of the Confucius 
Institute’s at the UC will continue 
to be exploited, particularly in what 
concerns its expertise concerning 
traditional Chinese medicine. 
Furthermore, the recently created 
Sino-Lusophone Academy will 
continue to be supported.
Besides this, the UC will endeavour 
to diversify its emphasis by focusing on other emerging economies, 
such as India. Entering this kind of 
countries will have a greater degree 
of difficulty regarding the English 
language training offer, which is 
why an increase in this offer is a 
necessary condition for achieving 
this diversification.
increasing the attractiveness 
and international recognition 
of the University of Coimbra, 
by reinforcing its presence in 
networks and establishing bilateral 
strategic partnerships
In order to be attractive, a university 
has to be recognised. Hence, it is 
essential to promote the University 
of Coimbra as a research university 
in the international prominent 
communities and to seek global 
partners for the development of 
knowledge sharing projects.
Within an internationalisation 
component of strong scientific 
character, an integrated vision of 
the establishment of the strategic 
partnerships with reference foreign 
universities should be a priority, 
both for the development of  
projects on a global scale and for the 
cooperation between institutions 
and also for the involvement 
of the academic community. 
Strengthening and boosting the 
presence of the UC in international 
reference networks is essential, 
both in organisations and alliances 
of European universities (Coimbra 
Group and the European University 
Association) and within the scope of 
the different fields of activity, such 
as innovation and entrepreneurship 
(e.g. ESA BIC – European Space 
Agency Business Incubation Centre, led by IPN in Portugal) or societal 
challenges (e.g. EIT Health or M8 
Alliance). Increasing the presence 
of the UC in European projects and, 
whenever possible, ensuring their 
leadership is also a goal to achieve 
in the quadrennium, which enables 
a greater diversification of funding.
The participation in the European 
Commission’s initiative European 
Universities, with the desirable 
implementation of the EC2U  
consortium – European Campus of 
City-Universities , which is a strategic 
and cross-cutting project in the 
whole University and all its areas 
of activity, will enable to develop 
an innovation space and free 
mobility flows between the seven 
universities involved and their cities.
Mapping the international networks 
and partnerships in which the UC is 
present will be a starting point, and 
it will be necessary to develop an 
analysis which enables to evaluate 
those that are the most aligned with 
the defined strategy, by identifying 
initiatives and partners that 
consistently yield the best results.
reviewing the geostrategic definition 
of the University of Coimbra, by 
deepening its participation in 
relevant international organisations 
and attracting international events’ 
organisation to the UC 
Having a well-elaborated  
geostrategic definition is a priority, 
regarding the participation of 
the University of Coimbra in 
international organisations, by 
setting priorities for action (positive 
discrimination) and defining a 
roadmap of relevant international 
organisations of universities.As far as relevance is concerned, 
the Coimbra Group is at the top of 
the agenda: the UC should actively 
participate in its definitions of 
policies, propose and lead initiatives 
and build on other initiatives 
within the global policy sphere 
of universities.
The interest of the physical 
presence outside the national 
territory should be appraised, by 
assessing the impact of the creation 
of UC representation offices abroad, 
which enable to exponentially 
increase the access to information, 
the success of applications to 
projects and a greater participation 
in networks and partnerships.
Encouraging the organisation of 
international events at the UC is 
also a way of giving visibility to the 
University and its activities in its wide 
range of fields. On the other hand, 
the participation of professors and 
researchers in international events 
is an opportunity for them to act as 
ambassadors, thus representing the 
UC brand across borders.
giving a strategic character to 
the mobility policy, by promoting 
the international mobility of 
the academic community, and 
reviewing the conditions offered 
to international students
People’s mobility is one of  
the most visible aspects of an 
internationalisation policy.  
Recognising that the University 
of Coimbra is at a very interesting 
level, especially in what concerns 
the number of incoming students 
under the Erasmus programme, the 
incoming, but especially outgoing, 
mobility flows will be increased, and not only of students but also of 
non-teaching staff, professors and 
researchers. The contact with new 
realities will bring benefits to the 
future of the University of Coimbra, 
and therefore will enable it to seek 
and attract quality and contribute 
to the internationalisation of the UC 
services and activity.
Within the scope of this  
internationalisation policy, the 
International Student Statute, 
since its inception, has a strategic 
character for the UC. Assessing 
the impact of the international 
students’ tuition fees will be 
important both in its tangible 
and intangible aspects, as well as 
rethinking, on the one hand, its 
value according to the different 
types and areas of bachelor and 
masters’ degrees, and, on  the other 
hand, the set of services provided 
to the international students. 
Besides higher education itself, 
this includes language courses, the 
assistance and support services, 
welcome conditions, support and 
incentives or social services (for 
example, accommodation and 
health services) STRATEGIC GUIDELINES 
51
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023strategic  
guidelines 
axes
people
quality
facilities
funding
communication

53
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
people
GOALS 
reach 50-70 per cent of full professors  
and tenure associate professors 
reach 50-60 per cent of non-teaching  
staff members attending training actions
reach 40-50 per cent in the technicality  
index of the non-teaching staffVISION
Valuing and caring for the 
academic community, assuming 
without hesitation that people 
are the most important asset 
of the University of Coimbra. 
55
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023facilitating the reconciliation 
between work, family and 
personal life, by recognising 
the efforts of the workers and 
promoting motivation
People’s effort and work must be 
recognised and rightly enhanced, 
and workers should feel rewarded 
for it. The projects and the good 
practices of pedagogical innovation 
of the professors will be recognised 
and acknowledged. Likewise, 
reference publications in top 
international journals should be a 
stimulus to the merit of researchers 
and professors. The non-teaching 
staff will be valued by establishing 
a reward system, for example by 
means of the encouragement of 
the exchange of experiences and 
international mobility.
Reconciliation of the workers’ 
professional, family and personal 
life should be facilitated as a means 
of recognition and enhancement of 
their efforts, in a perfect alignment 
with the “3 in line - Programme for 
the Reconciliation of Work, Personal 
and Family Life” established by the 
Government and the Portuguese 
Rule 4552: 2016, which promotes 
balance in the worker’s life. Other 
measures aligned with this will be 
developed, such as the creation 
of a specific plan to support 
the associative activity of the 
workers and students.
With all the mechanisms created, 
the goal of the UC is to increase the 
sense of belonging and motivation, 
by acting itself as a socially  
responsible institution.being a safe and healthy 
university and promoting 
the quality of life of the 
academic community
Investing in the physical and 
mental health and quality of life 
of the academic community will 
be a priority for the University of 
Coimbra, namely by means of the 
promotion of healthy lifestyles, by 
encouraging physical activity and 
sport in the academic community.
Making sports practice a vehicle 
for promoting habits leading to a 
healthy lifestyle will foster people’s 
well-being by means of sports 
practice while simultaneously using 
university sport as a way of sharing 
values such as solidarity, mutual 
help and team spirit. 
Investing in the health of the 
academic community also  
implies preventive measures and 
programmes (healthy eating, 
workplace ergonomics, safe working 
practices, etc.), the implementation 
of screenings and the promotion of 
the community medical follow-up, 
complemented by communication 
campaigns that promote safe and 
healthy behaviours.
The promotion of the quality of life 
of the community will also imply 
the creation of a UC Club, with an 
appealing and multidisciplinary 
physical space, where various 
social, leisure and sports activities 
can be gathered, associated with 
the promotion of the UC card as an 
identity element.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
encouraging dialogue, 
promoting active participation 
and establishing the 
posts of Ombudsman 
The University of Coimbra  
encourages critical thinking, which 
is why it will be important to take 
soundings from the members of 
the academic community, namely 
by means of open meetings 
that approach subjects relevant 
to the University and include 
divisive themes. The promotion 
of dialogue should be extended to 
the representative organisations 
of the various bodies that  
make up the academia, such as 
associations and unions.
In the particular case of students, 
who are the source of the  
transgenerational debate, the UC 
should endeavour to meet their 
wishes and needs, by fostering their 
involvement with the academia in all 
its areas of activity, involving them 
in strategic decisions and seeking 
consensus solutions. Consequently, 
the UC will benefit from their  
different experiences, ideas and 
suggestions and their different ways 
of thinking and acting.
Just like the Student Ombudsman – 
whose resources will be reinforced 
– the Institutional Ombudsman 
(Professors, Researchers and 
Non-T eaching Staff) will be  
established, with a mediating role 
in the conflicts that may emerge 
and that should be handled 
independently, thus protecting 
the rights and duties of the 
parties involved and contributing 
to the implementation of a more 
transparent and fairer system.dignifying and upgrading 
professional careers, by 
recruiting people following a 
perspective of human resources 
progression and rejuvenation
The rejuvenation of the staff  
– professors, researchers and 
non-teaching staff – has been 
one of the main concerns of the 
University of Coimbra, which is 
why a dynamic recruitment model 
based on the early retirements 
will have to be optimised, by 
undertaking a forward-looking 
management process, capable 
of ensuring current and future 
productive capacity. By means of a 
strong investment in high quality 
recruitment based on professional 
experience, renewing the staff will 
be possible, being thus necessary 
to ensure attractiveness conditions 
and excellence hiring mechanisms.
In the case of researchers,  
supporting and diversifying the 
creation of scientific employment 
is essential, by improving career 
conditions and contractual  
stability, which will be a stimulus 
to their activity.
The professors and the non-
teaching-staff careers should 
be dignified and upgraded,  
reinforcing the dynamics of career 
progression based on merit and the 
normalisation and maintenance of 
a stable staff without precarious 
work conditions.
The scope of this strategic guideline 
also includes the introduction of 
improvements to the UC Regulation 
on T eaching Service Provision by the 
Professors and the simplification 
of the UC Regulation on T eaching 
Performance Assessment.promoting professional 
and personal training, 
enhancing individual skills 
and strengthening the 
functions performed  
When it comes to training and 
personal skills of the workers, 
looking at the specificities of each 
group is crucial. As far as Professors 
are concerned, a pedagogical 
training plan will be created, also 
focused on innovation and new 
technologies. Moreover, training in 
relevant processes and tools will be 
developed for researchers.
With regard to the non-teaching 
staff, the University of Coimbra 
will focus on a continuous training 
plan, in close dialogue with the 
stakeholders, which may contribute 
to the increase of productivity. 
The empowerment of people 
will also imply the professional 
enhancement in different scopes, 
thus investing in cross-cutting 
training programmes (e.g. foreign 
languages, which are important 
for the internationalisation pillar), 
and opportunities for external 
training will be seized.
The implementation of a skills 
integrated management model is 
essential and will enable to foster 
the continuous development 
of the individual skills of each 
worker, by providing (national and 
international) training actions and 
enhancing the functions performed. 
This aspect is inherent in the 
promotion of internal mobility, 
when it is at the convenience 
of the worker and the units and 
services involved, thus enabling 
to solve problems of mismatch 
between the competences and the 
functions performed.
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 202357
VISION
Consolidating the high quality 
standards of the University 
of Coimbra in its wide range 
of fields, by simplifying and 
modernising procedures 
and improving efficiency in 
all the processes.quality
GOALS 
achieve an assessment equal or above  
“Substantial” in all the assessment areas  
of the UC Management System certification 
increase by 80-100 per cent  
the number of ISO 9001  
certified processes and laboratories
59
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023promoting the revision of the statutes 
and fostering the strategic alignment 
of the entities that constitute the 
University of Coimbra Group
After more than ten years since 
the approval of the University of 
Coimbra’s Statutes, it is now the 
time to promote their revision, by 
making the necessary adjustments 
to conform them with the  
current reality.
Following a perspective of  
improvement, promoting a greater 
involvement within the UC Group 
is also essential, by means of 
the strategic alignment of its 
entities, while maintaining their 
independence. This development of 
the UC Group’s cohesion enables to 
seek shared solutions to problems 
that affect each of the entities, 
thus increasing efficiency levels 
and securing common political 
dividends and scale gains.
Going far beyond the mere financial 
consolidation already achieved, this 
change will also enable to overcome 
a previously identified weakness, 
namely the reductive view of UC 
activity indicators, which, in most 
situations, do not consider the 
overall UC Group.
This alignment is also an  
opportunity for a strategic  
reflection in the context of the 
universe of R&D units in the UC, 
which may also imply the merger 
or reorganisation of the existing 
units, or even the fostering of the 
creation of others in areas that 
may not be covered and considered 
to be strategically relevant, in 
coordination with the Research & 
Innovation pillar guidelines.implementing monitoring and 
assessment models and tools 
capable of responding to the new 
institutional challenges
A business intelligence system will 
be created and implemented as a 
tool to support strategic decision-
making, thus enabling real-time 
information on UC activity and 
the performance indicators at 
the most various levels. With its 
implementation, the monitoring 
of the Strategic Plan itself will be 
simplified and streamlined.
The pedagogical quality monitoring 
and assessment model will also be 
optimised, thus maximising the 
high potential of its information 
and simplifying and enhancing the 
student surveys.
Within the scope of the assessment 
of the research activities’ quality, a 
model of research characterisation, 
monitoring and assessment will be 
implemented, taking into account 
the principles described in the 
San Francisco Declaration of the 
American Society for Cell Biology 
(2012) and in the Recommendations 
of the Leiden Manifesto (Hicks et 
al., Nature, 2015).implementing innovation and 
modernisation projects that 
contribute to the simplification 
and improvement of the  
administrative procedures
The adoption of innovative  
measures and projects is  
urgent, which aim to promoting 
administrative modernisation 
based on the simplification, 
no bureaucratisation and  
streamlining of procedures, or their 
decentralisation. This is the case of 
the development or implementation 
of computer applications and 
computerised means that enable 
the automatisation and even the 
dematerialisation of processes, 
therefore reducing human  
intervention, enabling the reduction 
of steps and time and ensuring 
quality maintenance – for instance, 
the document management  
system, the implementation  
of digital signatures or the  
revitalisation of the UC card.
The creation of channels that 
prioritise the reception and  
assistance of the users, by  
replicating a one-stop-counter 
model capable of meeting their 
needs and expectations, will also be 
taken into consideration.
Furthermore, priority will be 
given to projects that enable 
the effectiveness, efficiency and 
quality of activities gains, and, in 
particular, the ones that contribute 
to the implementation of hearing 
and participation mechanisms 
concerning stakeholders, which 
ensure the safeguard of users’ 
rights, and which provide the 
improvement of management 
support tools, administrative 
communication and the  
dissemination of administrative 
information. In addition, the 
recognition and sharing of good 
practices in all activity areas of the 
UC and members of its community 
will contribute to the same ultimate 
goal, which is the permanent and 
continuous improvement.STRATEGIC GUIDELINES 
optimising the management 
system of the University of 
Coimbra, by promoting the 
efficiency, effectiveness and quality 
of the processes
The UC Management System covers 
the most varied areas of activity, and 
adopts an integrated management 
and constant promotion of a quality 
culture. Striving for quality in the 
different pillars and axes of mission 
is something to look at as a natural 
way of being and acting. Optimising 
the Management System is crucial 
to the development of the UC, 
since it enables the consolidation 
and systematisation of the best 
practices of management and 
promotion of an improvement and 
quality assurance policy.
Promoting the alignment of  
planning, monitoring, assessment 
and improvement procedures in 
all the activity areas, including 
the full compliance of UC  
procedures with the General Data 
Protection Regulation, is essential 
for successful management.  
The same happens with the  
effective fulfilment of the risk and 
opportunity management model, 
based on the implementation 
of the Plan for Prevention of  
Management, Corruption and 
Related Infractions Risks, which 
boosts best practices also in all the 
activity areas of the UC.
The UC will maintain and intend to 
extend the ISO 9001 certification 
of the UC Management System 
processes, will give continuity to the 
A3ES assessment and certification 
processes and will promote other 
external audits – as will happen 
with the centralised certification 
and accreditation process for  
its Scientific and T echnological 
Platforms –contributing therefore 
to the excellence of the institution 
in all ar eas of activity.

61
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
GOALS
revitalise 20-30 per cent of university residences  
[measured in number of beds]
make available 2 to 3 revitalised spaces in order to  
house temporary and high-impact research projects
implement the Facilities and Location Plan  
in 20-40 per cent of the UC Administration  
and SASUC Administration’s servicesfacilities 
VISION
Enhancing campuses by improving the 
working conditions of the academic 
community, revitalising the buildings and 
making long-term strategic investments 
whenever possible.
63
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023enhancing socially and culturally the 
historical and museum built heritage 
This University is holder of a 
priceless cultural heritage.  
Therefore, it is essential to protect 
the information of historical 
interest in nationally and  
internationally recognised archival, 
bibliographic and museological 
areas by means of risk analysis and 
prevention. This whole heritage has 
to be taken care of dynamically, 
by enhancing its relevant role in 
the context of higher education, 
as a demonstration stage, open 
to society, and stimulating the 
perception of its relevance as an 
ecosystem of education, research 
and knowledge sharing.
The University of Coimbra will thus 
persist in the pathway to protecting, 
safeguarding, enhancing and 
disseminating its heritage included 
in the UNESCO World Heritage 
area, “University of Coimbra – 
Alta and Sofia”.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
mapping the spaces and their use and 
elaborating a long-term integrated 
development plan of the buildings, 
enhancing therefore an efficient use
The mapping and update of  
the register of all the University 
of Coimbra’s buildings will be 
undertaken, as well as of their 
physical and environmental  
conditions and the use that is 
being given to them, which will 
serve as a basis for the elaboration 
of an integrated development 
plan for the next decade, with 
the active participation of the 
academic community and the 
Municipality of Coimbra.
The UC will therefore make the 
most of its buildings, by enhancing 
an appropriate and efficient use, 
by means of the progressive 
replacement of leased spaces and 
the occupation of currently vacant 
or unused spaces. Such a plan will 
also contribute to the reallocation 
of spaces to other functions and 
reallocation of services, enabling 
thus the concentration of diffuse 
services and enhancing internal 
cohesion, productivity and  
satisfaction of the users of those 
services, and simultaneously the 
reduction of charges (such as 
rent payments and unnecessary 
maintenance expenses).
The development plan will also 
include the mapping of the needs 
for new buildings, namely those 
considered to be a priority and 
already referenced. Since currently 
there is no funding for their  
construction, it will be made should 
opportunities of support emerge, 
as it is expected to happen with 
the residences, within the scope 
of the National Plan for Housing in 
Higher Education. Improving the facilities conditions 
by restoring and modernising 
spaces and enhancing safety, health 
and quality of life
The works already in progress and 
with an approved funding project, 
such as in the “Paço das Escolas” 
will be carried out. The revitalisation 
of the buildings in the University 
Stadium will continue, as well as the 
construction of a new facility for 
the Faculty of Sport Sciences and 
Physical Education.
In this strategic cycle there is also 
an intention to invest sustainably in 
the maintenance and revitalisation 
of spaces, providing therefore the 
best conditions of study and work to 
the academic community, namely 
in spaces for teaching and learning 
activities – teaching and service 
spaces, libraries, museological 
areas, residences, canteens, etc. 
Priority will also be given to the 
provision of spaces and their  
equipment for the development 
of innovative and high impact 
research projects.
Besides the works of modernisation 
that may be undertaken, the 
investment in the maintenance 
of the buildings aims to achieve 
the improvement of the physical 
conditions of the spaces regarding 
the safety, health and quality of life 
of the academic community.qualifying and enhancing the 
outdoor spaces, by promoting 
permanent maintenance and 
improving accessibility
Alongside indoor spaces, it  
is important to ensure the  
maintenance of outdoor spaces, 
revitalising them and enhancing 
them in close coordination with the 
Municipality of Coimbra. Therefore 
the focus will be on promotion 
plans of the quality of life of the 
academic community that uses 
the facilities of Campus 2 (Polo 
II), Campus 3 (Polo III) and their 
adjacent areas on a daily basis, 
including the implementation of 
measures concerning accessibility 
and traffic flow and parking issues. 
All the measures in this scope 
will be developed in a sustainable 
way, according to the strategic 
guidelines defined in the area of 
Environment and Climate Action.
In Campus 1 (Polo I), the conditions 
of the outdoor spaces are directly 
linked to heritage management 
and also need a resolution in 
an integrated way with the  
Municipality of Coimbra – urban 
rehabilitation, preservation  
of buildings, reformulation or  
conditioning of traffic.
In another quite relevant sense, 
the architectural and physical 
accessibility to the buildings 
of campus 1 (Polo I) presents a 
great challenge: to make this 
campus 100 per cent accessible, 
without barriers.

STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 202365
VISION
Ensuring the financial sustainability 
of the University of Coimbra, by 
increasing revenues, controlling 
expenses and generating efficiency 
gains, and investing in strategic 
projects and human resources 
capable of generating (tangible 
and intangible) returns.funding
strengthening fundraising  
and diversifying funding, by 
focusing on competitive funding 
and own revenues
The capacity to attract funding and 
generate revenues is essential to 
the development of the University 
of Coimbra, especially in a context 
of chronic underfunding by the 
state. Achieving lasting (non-
extraordinary) solutions that 
strengthen economic and financial 
sustainability is crucial and will 
enable the UC to fulfil its missions, 
both “at home” and around the 
world. More funding will be raised 
by means of the increase in the 
number of non-degree courses 
(making its implementation  
autonomous, similarly to projects 
implementation), the development 
of projects with more diversified 
funding and the establishment of 
a greater number of partnerships 
(including the focus on projects with 
the involvement of the business 
community and other entities), 
the intensive dissemination of a 
broader portfolio for the provision 
of services to the community and 
fundraising by means of patronage 
(e.g. for specific issues such as 
conservation and restoration of the 
built or artistic heritage).
Incentives and stimulus will be 
introduced to achieve these  
objectives and the policy of  
redistribution of funds and  
overheads will be revised and 
updated, besides further support in 
the search for funding opportunities 
and in the preparation of  
applications, which is a measure 
already identified. The alignment 
of the UC Group entities will 
contribute to maximising the 
profitability of efforts and the full 
potential of synergies.raising the governance accountability, 
the operational excellence and the 
management tools 
The effort made over the last 
years to place the University of 
Coimbra in a relatively comfortable 
financial position cannot be wasted, 
and keeping the accounts under 
control is essential. The continuous 
monitoring of budget execution 
by means of the improvement of 
financial reporting for governance 
and the availability of data via the 
decision-making support system 
will enable to implement a plan to 
use, in due time, the balances and 
surpluses in investments that are 
strategic for the UC.
Operating general expenses  
will be reduced by means of the 
automatisation of some processes 
that will enable efficiency gains, the 
improvement of planning processes 
and the elimination of redundancies, 
including process redundancies.
Initiatives such as the strategy 
to combat waste, the process of 
administrative modernisation and 
dematerialisation of procedures 
and their efficiency gains or the 
improvement of the energy and 
environmental efficiency will 
be in line with a reduction in 
operating expenses.defending the economic sustainability 
of higher education to ensure the 
fulfilment of its mission in society
Given a history of underfunding of 
higher education, promoting the 
improvement of the definition and 
application of its funding model 
is important, both in terms of 
education and research. With regard 
to the economic sustainability, the 
University of Coimbra will propose 
initiatives to the Council of Rectors 
of the Portuguese Universities. 
Therefore, it will defend these 
initiatives before the public powers, 
in order to improve models that 
reinforce the university initiative, 
guarantee multiannual financial 
stability and endeavour to reach 
the real permanent scientific 
employment (by means of the 
possibility of imputing real costs, 
just like in European projects).
The University will propose  
initiatives to FCT in order to simplify 
project management procedures, 
thus reducing bureaucracies. 
In addition, it will promote  
the improvement of funding  
for direct social services for  
students and will seek funding 
that enables it to invest in the 
rehabilitation and construction of 
university residences.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
GOALS
diversify funding  
by achieving an independence rate of  
over 50 per cent concerning the public funding 
reach 100 per cent in the  
implementation of the Optimisation Plan  
of the T ravelling Processes  
and the Automatisation Plan  
of the Purchase Processes
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 202367
developing an internal, personalised 
and close communication strategy 
that promotes alignment, 
cohesion and involvement
The design of an internal  
communication plan – with  
clear identification of roles, 
channels, means and actions – will 
contribute to promoting internal 
cohesion and the motivation 
of the academic community  
and, in this regard, the current 
institutional communication  
model will be rethought,  
focusing on transparency,  
effectiveness and efficiency.
In order for the improvement to be 
a reality, actions are needed which 
imply the implementation of digital 
channels, the promotion of cross-
cutting events in the academic 
community or in each of their 
bodies individually, the organisation 
of regular staff meetings and the 
creation of a communication and 
knowledge sharing platform.
International students, in turn, 
require further attention and, 
therefore, the creation of a 
communication plan for them 
will facilitate their full integration 
into the UC. Furthermore, in a 
global university, the adaptation 
of communication means and 
channels to a multilingual  
format is essential.actively communicating the cross-
cutting nature of the University of 
Coimbra’s activity, in an integrated 
and coordinated way, thus enhancing 
its attractiveness and prestige
The outward-facing communi-
cation strategy will be redefined, 
by concentrating its efforts on 
the dissemination of the multiple 
activities undertaken by the 
University of Coimbra, their impact 
and their strengths. Based on 
the “The Future of the UC in our 
Hands” questionnaires addressed 
to former students and employers, 
the aspects of the UC activity 
identified as having greater visibility 
were: the quality of teaching, the 
relevance of research, the quality of 
the teaching staff, the educational 
offer, the academic tradition 
and the areas of excellence and 
international prestige.
The digital presence of the UC 
will be optimised by means of a 
simple, intuitive, attractive and 
multilingual web platform aiming 
to increase its visibility.
The dynamics should be attractive 
so that empathy with its addressees 
is established, given that it should 
not focus only on traditional 
means, but also on the immense 
potential associated with social 
networks in terms of reaching a 
greater and more diverse audience. 
In this regard, a corporate social 
network platform is intended to 
be built, which will be a meeting 
and information space, as well 
as a space for exchanging ideas 
between professionals and for  
lifelong learning.
The communication with the 
alumni  is also noteworthy, which 
should be undertaken in the digital 
means of communication, also in 
multilingual format, thus enhancing 
and contributing to their active 
participation in the life of the UC.making the UC brand a citizen of 
the world by promoting a proper 
image management and marketing 
actions that project its visibility 
and recognition 
The UC brand is synonymous with 
excellence and as such it will be 
spread and disseminated by means 
of a marketing plan that projects its 
visibility and recognition.
The visibility of the UC is also 
intended to be enhanced by means 
of projects that promote what 
is good at the University, under 
the tittle “Heritage Powered by 
UC” and by means of prestigious 
partners, whether they are national 
or international, or public or  
private. The UC brand must also 
be associated with a framework 
of international events of  
unquestionable quality.communication 
GOALS
reach 60-70 per cent in the Reputation Score 
achieve level A+ in the Net EffectSTRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
VISION
Disseminating the UC brand, thus 
ensuring national and international 
visibility and enhancing the 
attractiveness of the University of 
Coimbra, and promote the effectiveness 
of internal communication.
69
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
strategic  
guidelines 
sustainability  
and social 
responsibility  
environment and climate action  
citizenship, equality  
and inclusiveness
71
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023The University of Coimbra adopts an approach of 
sustainable management of its activities and resources 
and of social responsibility in its actions, which enables it 
to respond to the present needs without compromising 
the future, by strengthening awareness and civic action 
and by assessing impacts. Although Sustainability and 
Social Responsibility represent cross-cutting attitudes, 
behaviours and actions in the UC which fit and are 
always present in its activity, two dimensions are 
made autonomous, which, due to their relevance and 
their emergence in the current context, determine a 
firm commitment to the sustainable development and 
human rights: the Environment and Climate Action; and 
the Citizenship, Equality and Inclusiveness.
It should be further emphasised that the UC has 
been a member of ORSIES since its creation, - the 
Observatory for Social Responsibility and Higher 
Education Institutions -, and has been involved in 
the co-creation of a shared vision of the “Green 
Book on Social Responsibility and Higher Education 
Institutions”. Within the scope of the fight against 
inequalities between women and men in the academic 
world, the SUPERA network – Supporting the Promotion 
of Equality in Research and Academia – which consists 
of six entities of the European scientific system – is an 
example of an institutional commitment.
The adoption of the guidelines of the 2030 United 
Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development is a 
premise of this Strategic Plan. Assuming commitments 
of the Paris Agreement on climate change and 
monitoring national strategies such as those that are 
established in the 2050 National Low Carbon Roadmap 
are imperative and shape a global need, which should 
have an impact on local action. In this regard, the UC is 
also part of the Sustainable Campus Network, in which 
28 public higher education institutions signed the 
Sustainable Campus Charter of Intents, which is already 
an institutional commitment to the principles and 
practice of sustainable development, in all its relevant 
aspects – environmental, social and economic.

73
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023environment  
and climate  
action
 VISION
Developing an environmental sustainability 
strategy that enables the University 
of Coimbra to be the first Portuguese 
university to achieve carbon neutrality 
and make academic community aware 
of the impact of behaviour change on 
the fight against climate change.
GOALS  
reduce by 20-25 per cent  
the ecological footprint 
increase by 75-100 per cent  
the installed capacity for  
photovoltaic energy production
reduce by 30-50 per cent  
the consumption of paper promoting environmental and energy 
sustainability on the University of 
Coimbra campuses
The University of Coimbra aims to 
make its campuses sustainable by 
promoting their decarbonisation 
in line with the national target of 
carbon neutrality by 2050 and 
energy transition of the 2030 
National Energy and Climate Plan. 
In this regard, the UC will define an 
integrated sustainability planning 
and management strategy in its 
campuses and develop an action 
plan focused on the sustainable 
development objectives, which will 
enable, among other measures, 
to improve the energy and  
environmental efficiency of the 
buildings in a short time. With 
the constant involvement and 
contribution of researchers and 
in-house technical and scientific 
contributions and expertise, such as 
the interdisciplinary initiative Energy 
for Sustainability, the measures most 
suited to the characteristics of the 
UC will be assessed and decided. 
Additionally, a model will be defined 
for their implementation and 
management, capable of overcoming 
possible challenges and difficulties, 
from an organisational perspective 
and from the perspective of the 
academic community. 
The existence of historic buildings 
classified as UNESCO World Heritage 
Site naturally requires an additional 
effort in the analysis of the measures 
that will need to be implemented, 
by safeguarding the interaction and 
adaptation of this heritage to the 
environment over the centuries. 
An environmental sustainability 
strategy will have to be developed, 
with innovative and sustainable 
solutions that will make buildings 
more energy efficient, by improving 
their thermal, acoustic and lighting 
conditions, reducing energy  
consumption, promoting the rational 
use of resources and prioritising 
renewable energy production. The 
environmental revitalisation of the 
UC campuses will give priority to the 
surrounding public spaces, namely 
green spaces, by rearranging the 
existing ones and endeavouring to 
design new ones.
Measures will be developed along with 
the Municipality of Coimbra , which enable to decongest and phase out the 
traffic of polluting vehicles in Campus 
1 (Polo I), and progressively these will 
be replaced by electric vehicles, namely 
urban public transport. Furthermore, 
mobility routes will be developed 
between the UC campuses. 
encouraging behaviour change by 
means of the combat against waste 
and promoting an environmentally 
responsible campus
In order to be effective, change has 
to be made with and for people. 
Sensitisation, participation and 
involvement of the academic 
community concerning the combat 
against waste and environmental 
issues are the first step towards 
making the University of Coimbra 
campuses environmentally  
responsible. Y oung people are 
more mobilised than ever for  
environmental protection, by  
conducting crowded climate strikes 
and managing to integrate in them 
different layers and generations 
of our society. This positive energy 
should be extended to the entire 
community, by encouraging their 
participation in actions related to 
the promotion of the environmental 
sustainability in the campuses.
Therefore, it is urgent to develop a 
waste-fighting culture and adopt 
the principles inherent in the circular 
economy, based on reduction, 
reuse, recovery and recycling. The 
UC will promote the reduction of 
plastic consumption and use, the 
reduction of food waste – already 
well developed by the campaigns 
carried out by the Social Services of 
the UC (SASUC) over the last years 
–, the replacement of food products 
with great environmental impact, 
the careful management of waste, 
the rational use of resources, the 
reduction/optimisation of water 
consumption, among others. 
Dematerialising all processes 
that can be digitally executed 
is also important (including the 
widespread use of digital signatures), 
thus drastically reducing the 
amount of paper used.
Environmental citizenship will be 
strongly promoted as well as good 
practices and public, individual 
and collective participation in 
environmental and sustainable 
development issues. Increasing awareness and human and  
institutional capacity concerning 
the mitigation, adaptation, impact 
reduction and early warning climate 
change will imply the creation 
and adaption of the training offer, 
the encouragement of projects 
development and the stimulation 
to participate in networks and 
develop partnerships.
adopting a green public procurement 
policy and ensuring the financial 
sustainability of the implementation 
of environmental measures
In line with the National Strategy 
on Green Public Procurement 2020, 
a policy for service procurement 
that incorporates environmental 
criteria will be adopted. Since public 
procurement is a high potential 
tool, which integrates economic, 
social and environmental policies, 
green public procurement aims to 
promote resources-use efficiency 
and minimise environmental impacts 
by developing the circular economy, 
with a focus on dematerialisation, 
collaborative economy,  
differentiated waste collection and 
sustainable consumption.
The investments will be optimised 
and the available funding and 
incentive tools will be assessed at 
both national and international 
levels. Programmes such as  
the Energy Efficiency Fund, the 
Environmental Fund, the POSEUR 
- Operational Programme on 
Sustainability and Resource-use 
Efficiency, or the ECO.AP - Energy 
Efficiency Programme in Public 
Administration, among others, may 
encourage the implementation 
of some measures, thus avoiding 
assuming a financial effort that may 
turn out to be unfeasible for the UC.
Cost-benefit analyses of the various 
measures will be performed and 
their impacts will be monitored. 
In addition, the achievement of 
scale gains and cost reductions 
will be estimated by means of 
resources saving resulting from the 
implementation of environmentally-
friendly measures that contribute 
to the sustainability of the public 
accounts. The savings generated 
by the implementation of measures 
can be used to fund subsequent new 
measures, which in turn will lead to 
further savings and so on.STRA TEGIC GUIDELINES
75
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023citizenship, 
equality and 
inclusiveness 
VISION
Promoting active, enlightened, socially 
responsible and inclusive citizenship, 
by preserving the right to have rights, 
respecting dignity, equality and the right 
to difference, so that everyone can reach 
their potential, in a collective formulation 
of common goals and challenges.
GOALS
increase by 150-200 per cent the support  
for students with special educational needs  
[measured in number of students supported]
ensure a minimum representation level  
of 33-40 per cent of women and men  
in selection and examination boards  
(recruitment and PhD exams respectively)
increase by 50-60 per cent the number of projects  
with social impact, in partnership with  
the Municipality of Coimbra , NGOs  
and/or social economy organisations

77
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023promoting enlightened and 
responsible citizenship, social 
cohesion and human rights, by 
defending civilisational and ethical 
principles and contributing to the 
all-round training of citizens
The University of Coimbra is 
committed to the well-being of the 
academic community and society 
at large, by embracing freedom of 
thought, freedom of expression and 
critical thinking so that everyone 
can fulfil their potential respecting 
dignity and equality, and fighting 
any violation of human rights. 
Since it is essential to deepen 
ethical principles in academic life, 
by intensifying the dissemination 
and promotion of ethics in all the 
areas of the University life and 
activity, and by strengthening the 
link between ethical and technical 
issues, a UC Code of Ethics 
will be created.
The UC will implement a  
pedagogical approach that  
condemns acts of physical or  
psychological aggression, violence 
or harassment that use the “praxe” 
as an excuse and will focus on 
culture as a vehicle of values leading 
to a fairer and socially more solidary 
society. Additionally, in partnership 
with the Academic Association 
of Coimbra (AAC- Students’  
Union), the UC will also focus on 
the involvement of students in 
projects of cultural promotion, 
volunteering, social innovation and 
other forms of civic intervention. 
The students’ active participation is 
the key to enthusiasm.
The UC is also responsible for 
contributing to the all-round 
training of students, by forming 
citizens who use their knowledge 
for the benefit of society and to 
build a better world.Strengthening the social aid, by 
ensuring equity and the promotion 
of academic success, improving the 
living conditions of the student 
community and fighting inequalities 
Promoting social justice within the 
student community is crucial, as 
well as ensuring access to inclusive, 
quality and equitable education, 
by ensuring that there are learning 
opportunities for all and that the 
students’ living conditions are 
improved. T o this end, the UC will 
continue to ensure direct and 
indirect support to its students by 
means of the SASUC, by reinforcing 
student social aid, in all its aspects, 
which is a determining factor in 
the fight against withdrawal and 
in the promotion of continuity 
and academic success. Welcome 
conditions (accommodation and 
meals) will be improved and study 
places and opening hours that meet 
the students’ needs will be provided.
The quality of the medical services 
will be ensured by enhancing their 
dissemination to the academic 
community, and the psychological 
counselling and psychiatric support 
services will also be strengthened.
The Academic Association of  
Coimbra (AAC- Students’ Union) 
will be the preferred partner in 
this guideline, but the UC will 
also establish a dialogue with the 
“republicas” and the “solares” as 
autonomous prime movers of  
the academic community and 
integral parts of its identity matrix. 
Partnerships with the Municipality 
of Coimbra will be developed 
in key areas such as welcome 
programmes for new national and 
international students.combating gender inequalities and 
ensuring equal opportunities by 
eliminating imbalances and barriers
Equality between women and 
men is an imperative and a social 
objective in itself, essential to a 
full experience of citizenship and 
a condition for the building of a 
sustainable future.
Gender inequality is a problem 
with deep roots and multiple and 
complex causes, based on gender 
stereotypes, in which action is 
required. Such purpose calls 
for the development of internal 
policies, whether in terms of human 
resources, career progression 
or harassment prevention.  
Similarly, strengthening gender 
mainstreaming in knowledge 
production and transfer, besides 
being socially responsible, it is 
an opportunity to improve the 
pedagogical quality and social 
relevance of r esearch results.
The UC is aligned with and  
co-responsible for a fairer society. 
Therefore, it will implement  
an institutional action plan for 
equality, which removes obstacles 
to equal opportunities, reinforces 
the principle that identical  
situations deserve equal treatment 
and leads to a reality of gender 
equality, in line with the national 
and European policy objectives 
and guidelines – namely within 
the scope of “Portugal + Equal” 
and the European Research Area 
–, and with the SUPERA project 
– Supporting the Promotion of 
Quality Resear ch and Academia.
Among other measures, the UC 
will implement the use of inclusive 
language in its documents and 
will provide data and statistics by 
gender, thus enabling to assess 
and monitor the UC position in 
terms of equality. 
In addition, the UC will actively 
engage society, by raising  
awareness of and drawing attention 
to gender equality issues.promoting policies for social 
inclusion and protection of  
minorities, ensuring the right to 
difference and the right to have 
rights, by ensuring equal access 
and conditions to achieve success
The University of Coimbra will 
promote equality and inclusion 
policies for minorities. The right to 
have rights is to be respected, and 
this includes the right to difference. 
The right (and protection) to 
difference will be enshrined in all 
regulations and procedures, by 
advocating inclusion, integration 
and welcoming. The UC will 
continue to find solutions to 
ensure equal access to all levels 
of education and training, by 
improving accessibility and the 
working and study conditions, and 
respecting the characteristics of all 
people with specific needs.
Diversified support aimed at 
students with special educational 
needs will be strengthened as well 
as the support to the organisational 
units who host them. Furthermore, a 
support organisation will be created 
within the scope of the prevention 
and monitoring of issues associated 
with mental health, by providing a 
safe, inclusive and effective learning 
environment for everyone.STRATEGIC GUIDELINES 

79
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
monitoring  
and assessment 
Throughout the previous strategic 
planning cycles, a culture of 
permanent monitoring and regular 
assessment of the University of 
Coimbra’s activity was created and 
developed. This culture is  
cross-cutting in all the 
organisational structure and 
in the different management 
levels, and has already been 
perfectly integrated into the 
academic community.The dynamic process integrated into the UC 
management cycle will be maintained, thus enabling 
the continuous development of the processes of 
planning, monitoring, assessment and feedback loop, 
with a view to achieve excellence in all the pillars and 
mission axes and sustainability areas.
The process will not be restricted to one measurement, 
and it will be complemented by the definition and 
implementation of improvement strategies resulting 
from the assessment carried out in accordance with 
the principles of quality assurance: supported by the 
PDCA cycle – Plan, Do, Check, Act – and by the risk-
based thinking. This approach will include the analysis 
and signalling of deviations from what is planned 
and will trigger the necessary actions – corrections, 
corrective actions, continuous improvement, 
disruptive change, innovation and reorganisation – in 
a dynamic of permanent attention to the internal and 
external context.
Throughout the whole process, while respecting 
the principles of participatory management and 
transparency, it will be essential to establish 
channels of communication with the stakeholders, 
by communicating the developments in the 
implementation of the Strategic Plan and the 
assessment undertaken at each moment, and, on the 
other hand, enabling the permanent introduction of 
suggestions for improvement.
At the beginning of 2023, the final assessment will be 
carried out, which will reflect all the work done in the 
quadrennium, closing therefore another integrated 
strategic planning cycle.
81
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023The Strategic Plan, under the statutory terms, is 
complemented by the Action Plan. This document 
systematises the main actions that will be triggered by 
the Rector’s T eam, at the institutional level, which are 
aimed to implement the strategic guidelines listed for 
the 2019-2023 quadrennium.
Achieving the proposed goals depends not only on 
these actions, but also on the successful alignment 
of the goals and actions of the Action Plans of the 
organisational units, other units and services. 
Each Plan defines its panels of specific indicators/
goals and actions, in a way which is properly aligned 
with the higher levels, thus originating the lower 
assessment levels.
The Quality Plan, which is directly linked to the Quality 
mission axis, contains the main guidelines for improving 
the processes and services provided within the context 
of each of the remaining mission pillars and axes, and 
areas of sustainability. By including concrete actions 
to be developed, goals and indicators, the information 
collected by means of the integrated monitoring in 
the assessment and monitoring cycle will be used as 
a management and quality improvement tool in each 
of the pillars, axes and areas, thus contributing to 
the optimisation of the Management System of the 
University of Coimbra. The challenges posed to higher 
education institutions concerning quality assessment 
require planning in order to use efficiently the resources, 
and the definition of a Quality Plan aligned with and 
integrated into the Strategic Plan enables to channel 
efforts towards the implementation of the most 
appropriate initiatives that respond to the UC current 
and future challenges.
from 
strategy  
to action 
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023
A SPECIAL THANK YOU TO ALL WHO HAVE CONTRIBUTED 
TO THE 2019 –2023 STRATEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY  
OF COIMBRA, IN PARTICULAR TO:
THE TECHNICAL TEAMS
Ana Quental, Dora Lontro, Filipe Rocha, Mariana Correia, Nicolas Oliveira, Paula Ferreira, Raquel Belo, Sónia Fonseca  
Planning, Management and Development Division
António Barros, Francisco Elias, Henrique Patrício, Joana T ereso, Karine Paniza, Marta Costa, Paulo Amaral, Sara Baptista 
Communication Division 
António Alvarenga e Margarida Barros
Alva Research and Consulting (collaboration specialised in prospective analysis and scenarios)
THE MEMBERS OF THE ACADEMIC COMMUNITY WHO PARTICIPATED DIRECTL Y 
Abílio Sobral, Adelino Ferreira, Adelino Gonçalves, Adélio Gaspar, Adérito Araújo, Alberto Leandro, 
Alcino Pastilha, Alex Feil, Alexandre Carreira, Alexandre Correia, Alexandre Pereira, Alexandre 
T avares, Álvaro Gomes, Ana Carolina Mateus, Ana Cristina Almeida, Ana Cristina Ribeiro, Ana 
Cristina T avares, Ana Filipa Val–do–Rio, Ana Isabel Ferreira, Ana Isabel Lopes, Ana Isabel 
Melo, Ana Isabel Santos, Ana Luísa Campos, Ana Margarida Frade, Ana Margarida Marques, 
Ana Maria Lino, Ana Maria Miguéis, Ana Maria Sequeira, Ana Maria T eixeira, Ana Marta 
Gonçalves, Ana Paula Alves, Ana Raquel Rodrigues, Ana Rita Amaral, Ana Rita Santos, 
Ana Rita Jesus, Ana Rita Querido, Ana Santos Carvalho, Ana Sofia Coimbra, Ana T elmo 
Cabral, Ana T eresa Peixinho, Ana T eresa Santos, André Jerónimo, André Henriques, 
Ângela Ferreira, Anselmo Silva, António Alberto Correia, António Amaro Correia, 
António Gomes Martins, António Luiz Soares, António Maia Amaral, António 
Pedro Monteiro, António Pinto Cruz, António Queirós, António Rochete, Ariana 
Martins, Bárbara Ramalho, Beatriz Almeida, Bernardo Fazendeiro, Bruna Araújo, 
Bruno Carvalho, Bruno Ferreira, Bruno Lomardo, Carla Costa, Carla Ferreira, 
Carla Godinho, Carla Marques, Carla Milene Figueiredo, Carla T eotónio, 
Carlos Aguiar, Carlos Fortuna, Carlos Moreira, Carlos Reis, Carolina Duarte, 
Catarina Dourado, Catarina Martins, Catarina Pedro, Catarina Providência, 
Catarina Salgado, Cecília Paulino, Célia Sousa, Cesário Silva, Christiano 
Bomfim, Cidália Fonte, Cidália Silva, Clara Mendes, Cláudia Gaspar, Cláudia 
Jesus, Cláudia Silva, Cris Yin, Cristina Ascenso, Cristina Freitas, Cristina 
Nabais, Cristina Pereira, Daniel Azenha, Daniel Silva, Débora Domingos, 
Diana Santos, Dina Sebastião, Diogo Machado, Diogo Proença, Domingos 
Quinzeca, Domingos Xavier Viegas, Eduardo T enreiro, Elsa Silva, Etsong 
à Mbang, Eugénio Rodrigues, Eunice Carrilho, Fábio Santos, Fátima Silva, 
Fátima Sol, Felippe Pessanha, Fernando Bernardo, Fernando Ramos, 
Fernando Figueiredo, Filipa Lopes, Filomena Marques de Carvalho, 
Francisca Gonçalves, Francisco Ferreira, Francisco Rodrigues, Gabriel 
Falcão, Germana T orres, Guilherme Rebola, Helena Galante, Helena Mendes, 
Helena Quaresma, Helena Rolas, Heloísa Bueno, Henrique Girão, Henrique 
Veiga, Henriqueta Silva, Hugo Andrade, Hugo Figueiras, Ian Davis, Ilídio 
Pereira, Ilina Cordeiro, Inês Almeida, Inês Braga, Inês Lopes Filipe, Isabel 
Camisão, Isabel Carreira, Isabel Ferreira, Isabel Ramires, Isabel Valente, 
Jacinto Mathe, Jaime Ramos, Janaina Behling, Joana Baptista, Joana Barbosa 
de Melo, Joana Bronze Ferreira, Joana Fragão, Joana Neto, Joana Ricarte, João 
Assunção, João Carlos Lage, João Carlos Marques, João Ferreira, João Figueiredo, 
João Gonçalo Lopes, João Gouveia Monteiro, João Jerónimo Maia, João Miguel 
Antunes, João Paulo Cardielos, João Paulo Dias, João Pinto, João Ramalho Santos, 
João Reis, João Seixas de Melo, João Simões de Sousa, João Tiago Neves, Joaquim 
Norberto Silva, Joaquim Pires Valentim, Joaquim Silva, Jorge Almeida, Jorge China, 
Jorge Noro, José Alberto Fonseca, José António da Cruz, José Augusto Bernardes, 
José Augusto Ferreira, José Francisco Silva, José Guerra, José Luís Marques, José 
Manuel Santos, José Miguel Nunes, José Pereira da Silva, Judite Ferreira, Laura Alho, 
Laurindo Frias, Leonardo Fernandes, Leonardo Vicente, Leonor Silva, Licínio Ferreira, Lígia 
Bugelli, Lília Marques, Liliana Moreira, Lina Carvalho, Lina Coelho, Luara Maranhão, Lucas 
T eixeira, Luís Barata, Luís Coimbra, Luís Correia, Luís Fernandes, Luís Góis, Luís Lopes, Luís 
Loza, Luís Pereira de Almeida, Luís Rodrigues, Luísa Guedes, Luísa Lopes, Luiza Abi Saab, Luz 
do Céu Esteves, Madalena Alarcão, Manuel Santos Rosa, Manuel T rindade, Manuela Grazina, Mara 
Braga, Márcia Justino, Márcia Rodrigues, Márcia Santos, Márcia Silva, Marco Cosme, Margarida Mano, 
Margarida Rodrigues, Maria Aguiar Morais, Maria Alfaiate Silva, Maria Aparecida Silva, Maria Celeste 
Vieira, Maria Conceição Costa, Maria Dalvaneide Araújo, Maria Fátima Carvalho, Maria Fátima Martins, 
Maria Filomena Gaspar, Maria Graça Campos, Maria Graça Rasteiro, Maria Helena Fernandes, Maria Helena 
Matos, Maria Inês Pirré, Maria Isabel Gomes, Maria Isabel Roque, Maria João Almeida, Maria João Campos, Maria 
João Carvalho, Maria João Castro, Maria João Moreno, Maria João Rodrigues, Maria Lencastre, Maria Luísa Ramos, Maria 
Lurdes Abreu, Maria Nascimento Marmé, Maria Natália Lopes, Maria Ribeiro, Maria Rita Carvalho, Maria T eresa Barata, Maria 
T eresa Brazão, Maria T eresa Vilaça, Mariana Felício, Mariana Pereira, Mariana Rodrigues, Mário Carvalhal, Mário Zenha–Rela, Marta 
Amado, Marta Carvalho, Marta Costa e Silva, Marta Oliveira, Matilde Santana, Mercedes Gonçalves, Miguel Carvalho, Miguel Gonçalves, 
Miguel Lopes, Mónica Lopes, Mónica Wolthers, Mounirah Bissiri, Natália Bebiano, Natália Moreno, Nelson Costa, Nuno Almeida, Nuno Correia, 
Nuno Gregório, Nuno Mendonça, Nuno Patão, Nuno Peixinho, Nuno Pinto, Nuno Silva, Nuno Simões, Núria Forner, Olga Bernardino, Olga 
Ribeiro, Olívio Evangelista, Orisowubo T amunopekerebia, Patrícia Carmo, Patrícia Correia, Patrícia Moura e Sá, Patrícia Neves, Paula Buco, 
Paula Canto, Paula Lopes, Paula Susana Rodrigues, Paulo Lopes, Paulo Oliveira, Paulo Santos, Paulo Saraiva, Pedro Abrantes, Pedro Cordeiro, 
Pedro Dias, Pedro Góis, Pedro Lopes Ferreira, Pedro Neto, Pedro Pinheiro, Pedro Santos, Pedro Silva, Pedro Urbano, Rafael Oliveira, Raquel 
Almeida, Raquel Brás, Raquel Miranda, Raquel Sampaio, Renato Santos, Renato Silva, Ricardo Dias, Rita Almeida, Rita Maia, Rui Lopes, Rui 
Pinto, Samuel Moniz, Sandra Pedrosa, Sara Costa, Sérgio Vicente, Sílvia Figueiredo, Sílvia Matias, Sílvia Nolan, Sílvia Santos, Sofia Carapeto, 
Sofia Pereira, Sónia Abrantes, Sónia Rodrigues, Soraia Machado, Susana Andrade, Susete Araújo, T ânia Covas, T arcísio de Oliveira, T eodoro 
Soares, T eresa Martins, T eresa Oliveira, T eresa Pedroso de Lima, Thais Rosas, T odor Vuchkov, T omás Pinho, Vasco Pereira, Vasco Vaz, Vera 
Almeida, Virgílio Neto, Virgínia Ferreira, Virgínia Fonseca, Vítor Dias, Vítor Sanfins, Vittorio Alves, Yin Mengjia.THE R&D UNITS ADAI (Adélio Gaspar e José Ribeiro), CEAACP (Conceição Lopes e Lara Alves), CeBER (Luís Dias e Pedro T orres), CECH (Carmen 
Soares e José Luís Brandão), CEGOT (Adélia Nunes, Cláudia Costa e Norberto Santos), CEIS20 (António Rochette e João Avelãs Nunes), CEISUC 
(Vânia Gonçalves), CELGA–IL TEC (Joana Santos e Margarita Correia), CEMMPRE (Marta Oliveira), CES (António Ribeiro e João Paulo Dias), 
CFE (João Loureiro), CFisUC (Brigitte Hiller e Constança Providência), CGeo (Mário Ferreira e Rui Reis), CIAS (Cristina Padez e Vítor Matos), 
CIBB (Luís Pereira de Almeida), CIBIT (Antero Abrunhosa e Miguel Castelo Branco), CIDAF (Ana Maria T eixeira), CIEC (Filipa Araújo e Manuel 
Ferro), CIEPQPF (Ana Borba e Hermínio de Sousa), CINEICC (Daniel Rijo e Jorge Almeida), CISUC (Amílcar Cardoso e Licínio Roque), CITEUC 
(Fernando Figueiredo, Maria T eresa Barata e Nuno Peixinho), CITTA (António Pais Antunes e João Bigotte), CLP (Maria Helena Santana e Marta 
Anacleto), CMUC (Ana Paula Santana e Júlio Neves), CNC (Ana Luísa Carvalho e Luís Pereira de Almeida), CQ (Alberto Pais e Rui Fausto), EfS 
(Luís Dias e Manuel Carlos Silva), iCBR (Flávio Reis e Henrique Girão), IEF (Joaquim Braga e Mário Santiago de Carvalho), IJ (Dulce 
Lopes e Maria José Resende), INESC Coimbra (Cidália Fonte e Luís Almeida), IST (Paulo Menezes), IT (Sérgio Ângelo da Cruz).
ASSOCIATIONS, COMPANIES AND ENTITIES  10.digital (Pedro Pereira e Pedro Girão), AAC – Associação Académica de 
Coimbra (Daniel Azenha e restantes membros da Direção Geral), AC – Águas de Coimbra (Nuno Silva), Accenture 
(Mariana Reis), Active Space T echnologies (Bruno Ramos de Carvalho, ADF (Hugo Fernandes), Administração 
Regional de Saúde do Centro (Maria Alzira Vaz), Associação Empresarial de Portugal (António Pêgo), 
Águas do Centro Litoral (Raquel Santos), AIRC – Associação de Informática da Região Centro (Lurdes 
Ferreira), Altice Labs (Gabriela Moura Ramos), Altice Portugal (Graça Rebocho), ANJE – Associação 
Nacional de Jovens Empresários – Núcleo do Centro (Nuno Gaspar), Ansell Portugal (Hélder 
Fonseca e Zita Cação), APAV – Associação Portuguesa de Apoio à Vítima (Natália Cardoso), 
APPACDM Coimbra (Ana Isabel Cruz), Automóveis Citroën (José Manuel Rocha), BIAL – Portela 
& C.ª (José Carlos Ferreira), Bluepharma (Cláudia Silva e Paulo Barradas Rebelo), Borgstena 
T extile (Solange Leitão), BorgWarner Emissions Systems Portugal (Sílvia Miranda), Bosch 
T ermotecnologia (Ana Luís Pereira), Brands & Ninjas (José Pedro Moura), Câmara 
Municipal de Coimbra (Carina Gomes, Regina Bento e Vânia Carvalho), Canas 
Engenharia e Construção (Rita Durão), CEC – Conselho Empresarial do Centro 
(Isabel Gregório e José Couto), Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra 
(Carlos Gante), Centro T ecnológico do Calçado de Portugal (J. Leandro Melo), 
Civibérica – Obras Civis (Ana Sousa), COFISA – Conservas de Peixe da Figueira 
(Elisa Sousa), Coimbra Group (Ludovic Thilly), CoimbraMaisFuturo (Ana T omás), 
Comunidade Intermunicipal da Região de Coimbra (Jorge Brito), Crioestaminal 
(André Gomes), Critical Software (Gonçalo Quadros), Cron.Studio (Diogo 
Bhovan), Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa (Joana Pais), CSW – Competitive Services 
in the World (AlexandraPimenta), CTCV – Centro T ecnológico da Cerâmica 
e do Vidro (António Dias), DanCake Portugal (T atiana Nunes), DECO – 
Delegação Regional do Centro (Adriana Rodrigues), Deloitte (Ana T eresa 
Correia e Ricardo Reis), Direção de Finanças de Coimbra (Jaime Devesa), 
Duplo Network – Agência Criativa de Branding e Design (Francisco Marta), 
DURIT – Metalurgia Portuguesa do T ungsténio (Dália Nunes e Flausino 
Silva), EcoXperience (Filipe Antunes), Efapel (Carla Banha), Fapricela – 
Indústria de T refilaria (Ivo Magalhães), FNWAY Consulting (José Manuel 
Ribeiro), Fórum Oceano (Carla Domingues), Frijobel (Paulo Júlio), Galp 
(Filipa Barão), Grupo Iberomoldes (Mário Freitas), Grupo MRG (Rodolfo 
Gouveia), Hilti Portugal (Luísa Pereira), Huf Portuguesa (Beatriz Nunes), 
Iberomoldes (Olegário Angélico), IEFF – Incubadora de Empresas da 
Figueira da Foz (Nuno Lopes), IGHS – Idealmed Global Healthcare Services 
(José Alexandre Ferreira), INOVA+ (Nuno Soares), Inova–Ria (Paulo Marques), 
Instituto Português do Desporto e Juventude – Direção Regional do Centro 
(Luís Fardilha), Instituto Português de Oncologia de Coimbra Francisco Gentil 
(Ana Pais), IPN – Instituto Pedro Nunes (Carlos Cerqueira), IPN Incubadora 
(Jorge Pimenta), ISA – Intelligent Sensing Anywhere (Diamantino Costa), 
Isoder (António Pereira Rodrigues), ISQ – Instituto de Soldadura e Qualidade 
(Isabel Mendes), IteCons (Inês Simões), J. Carranca Redondo (Daniel Redondo), 
JPM Automação e Equipamentos Industriais (Marlene Soares), Konica Minolta 
Business Solutions Portugal (Hugo Pratas e Sílvia Leão), MAHLE Componentes de 
Motores (Fábia Ferraz), Merck (Sónia Rosa), Microsoft (Pedro Duarte), MIT Portugal 
(João Bigotte), MOBINOV (José Couto), Norauto Portugal (Catarina Alves), Nord 
Drivesystems PTP (Cristina Carvalho), Novabase (Susete Mendes), Olympus Service 
Facility Portugal (Sandrine Marques), OMNOVA Solutions (Jorge Moniz), PFP – Associação 
da Plataforma Ferroviária/Cluster da Ferrovia (Paulo Duarte), Plural – Cooperativa 
Farmacêutica (Paulo Moreira da Fonseca), Press Forum – Fórum Estudante (Rui Marques), 
Primelayer (Paulo Caridade), PRIO (Cristina Correia), PRODUTECH – Polo das T ecnologias de 
Produção (Pedro Rocha), PwC (Nuno Simões), RAIZ – Instituto de Investigação da Floresta e do 
Papel (Sara Monteiro), Renault Cacia (Júlio Fontes), Roca T orneiras (Luís Martins), S.&.A. – Sociedade 
Industrial de Aperitivos (Joaquim Reis), Santander (Fernando Vieira, Jorge Rodrigues e Lourdes Simões), 
SerQ – Centro de Inovação e Competências da Floresta (Paulo Luís), Simoldes Plásticos (Cristina Pereira), 
Sociedade Portuguesa de Inovação (Susana Seabra), Somema (Rita Ribeiro), Space Layer T echnologies 
(Pedro Caridade), Stemlab (Alexandra Mendes), T agus Valley (Homero Cardoso), TAP Air Portugal (João Falcato), 
The Navigator Company (Luís Rodiles e Sara Monteiro), TICE.PT (Vasco Lagarto), T una Académica da Universidade de 
Coimbra, VeralliaPortugal (Célia Carrasqueiro e Emília Esteves), Virtual Power Solutions (Luísa Matos), Vitae Professionals 
(Cesária Castro), WIT Software (Celina Agostinho).
THE 1,250 ALUMNI” who completed the survey “The Future of the UC in our hands”
THE OTHER BODIES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA, namely the General Council, the Senate and the Students Ombudsman
THE DEANS AND ASSISTANT -DEANS OF THE ORGANISATIONAL UNITS AND OTHER UNITS
THE RECTOR’S TEAM
AMÍLCAR FALCÃO RECTOR
PATRÍCIA PEREIRA DA SILVA PRO -RECTOR FOR PLANNING
ALFREDO DIAS, ANTÓNIO FIGUEIREDO, CLÁUDIA CAVADAS, CRISTINA ALBUQUERQUE, DELFIM LEÃO, 
JOÃO CALVÃO DA SILVA, JOSÉ PEDRO FIGUEIREDO, LUÍS NEVES, LUÍS SIMÕES DA SILVA

85
STRA TEGIC PLAN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COIMBRA       2019/ 2023© University of Coimbra, 2019SPECIFICA TIONS
Compilation and graphics  
Planning Division,  
Management and Development 
Layout  
Communication Division
Photos  
CES/Carlos Barradas - 60, 81;  
Dan ilo Pavone - 26;  
François Fernandes - 16;  
João Armando Ribeiro - 38;  
Mariana Correia - 31, 32, 70;  
Marta Costa - 11, 28 e 29, 42, 50;  
Paulo Amaral - Cover, 12 e 13, 18, 
26, 34, 52, 56, 59, 63, 64, 68, 74, 77, 
78 e 79, 82 e 83;  
Sérgio Azenha - 46;  
UC Archive - 4 e 5, 8, 66;  
EUG2018 - 24 e 25;

