DARE
INSPIRE
ACHIEVEBUILDING THE FUTURE  
TOGETHER
2017–2022 Strategic Plan  

Table of Contents
Message from the Chair of the Board of Directors  
Message from the Rector
Mission, Vision, and ValuesThe Université Laval DifferencePRIORITY 1: ExperiencePRIORITY 2: EngagementPRIORITY 3: ExcellenceInspiring projects that will make us betterDARE   
INSPIRE  
ACHIEVE
BUILDING THE FUTURE 
TOGETHER
4   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université LavalMessage from the Chair  
of the Board of Directors
―
Innovative organizations know how to put together bold 
and stimulating strategic plans. When conducted in true 
partnership with the community, such exercises are a 
guarantee of progress and success.
On behalf of the board of directors, I am pleased and excited 
to receive this plan put together by the Université Laval 
management team and many other contributors.
This plan is the result of months of reflection and extensive 
consultation with the broader community. Many of you—from members of the academic and research community  
to representatives of political institutions and partners—
have shared your dreams and ambitions with us.
The University has taken due note of your wishes to see the university flourish and shine in partnership 
with the people of Québec City. And we have heard your call to rethink the way we do research and 
provide an engaged learning environment focused on the student experience.
In the coming years, this plan will serve as an invaluable collective tool to help make Université Laval  
a unique institution that is more modern, more efficient, and more transparent.
We will be rolling out promising initiatives to redefine university life and introducing new programs.  
The plan will be concrete and have an impact on all aspects of university education.It will include precise targets and reliable indicators to ensure we meet our ambitions.
I am confident that the members of the university community will make every effort to transform  
their university. And that we will be creative in bringing this strategic plan to life.
The board of directors will work side by side with you in the ongoing effort to implement this exciting plan.
 
Marie-France Poulin,  
Chair of the Board of Directors
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   5Message  
from the Rector
―
The fields of education and research are changing at a rapid 
pace. Université Laval is entering an era of renewal. Today, 
I am proud and enthusiastic to present our strategic plan 
for navigating the changes that are impacting education, 
research, and society as a whole. This strategy will guide us 
as we revitalize our university and make it into a one-of-a-kind institution.
We will redefine the student experience, at every stage of life. 
Learning by doing, in the heart of Québec City, will become our 
hallmark. Our approach will be based on educational innovation 
and backed by the strength of a committed community.  
Our research will push the boundaries of multidisciplinarity.
In our future efforts, we will go well beyond traditional 
approaches to offer training and research initiatives dedicated to solving major social issues.
Université Laval will be more open and modern, fueled by collaborative networks that make it an educational 
destination of choice where people can develop their full potential.
Its leaders will dare to transform society. Their drive to achieve will be contagious. They will be a source  
of collective inspiration for generations to come.
We will help light a path to a better way of living together, taking bold steps to meet the emerging challenges 
of society. Open science will pave the way for a more equitable sharing of knowledge for the benefit  
of communities.
To achieve these goals, we will draw on the same shared energy and our desire to reinvent key aspects  
of teaching and research. I encourage you to be courageous and take part in this collective movement  
so we can fulfil our mission.Together, we have the drive and ingenuity to create unstoppable momentum at Université Laval.I look forward to joining you on our path to 2022.
Sophie D’ Amours,  
Rector
6   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université LavalMission  I  Vision  I  Values
―
To meet the emerging challenges of society and the expectations of students and researchers, 
Université Laval set out in 2018 to rethink its mission, vision, and values. The approach is designed 
to engage and mobilize the university community in the quest to develop and transmit knowledge 
and create an environment for learning, research, work, and living in keeping with its aspirations.
Mission
Driven by a deep-seated culture of sustainable development, Université Laval educates engaged 
and creative students, model citizens, scientists, and business leaders who have an important 
impact on the direction that society takes. As a leading French-language institution with a strong 
international focus, Université Laval strives for excellence in education and research. It seeks 
to be both a reference and a source of inspiration for its partners by mustering the forces of change in the heart of Québec City’s vibrant university community.
Vision
Our community is committed to providing a one-of-a-kind student experience and cultivating a bold, open, and resolutely interdisciplinary scientific culture focused on the challenges facing our world. We strive to be a humanist university dedicated to promoting the arts and training a new generation of leaders eager to tackle the biggest challenges of society.
Values
Ever mindful of the diversity of people, knowledge, and ways of thinking in this world, Université 
Laval pursues its mission of education and research in accordance with the following values:  
 —Responsibility
 —Respect
 —Courage —Integrity
 —Inclusion
 —Solidarity
Université Laval will set itself apart by redefining the academic, work, and partnership experience, 
an experience marked by a sincere and enduring engagement to the broader community  
and made possible by the commitment to excellence all our members share.The Université Laval Difference
―
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   7
8   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université LavalExperience
―
Université Laval will provide a distinctive and memorable student experience in symbiosis with 
new technology and enriched by experimentation. Students will have access to a comprehensive 
ecosystem designed to boost skill development through increased opportunities for partnership- 
and research-based projects, internships, simulations, and explorations. The campus will be a 
space for meeting and interacting where digital tools go hand in hand with a student-centred approach fostering an active and revamped style of learning. Université Laval will assist and support its learners throughout their lives—from the moment they establish their first contact (in Québec City or abroad) or first set foot on campus to when they come back mid-career for additional training. And we will provide this support in an inclusive and egalitarian environment where respect and tolerance prevail over all forms of sexual violence and harassment.
  Objective 1.1: Enrich the student experience  
We will make the student community central to the university experience by reviewing our 
programs to ensure they offer distinctive hands-on training across the board.
We will offer more short training options adapted to individual needs. We will innovate and be 
flexible in order to create a rich, stimulating, and integrated experience, beginning from students’ 
first contact with the University and continuing through every stage of their lives.    
 —Action 1.1.1: Systemize training by experience
 —Action 1.1.2: Improve the range of training provided
 —Action 1.1.3: Enhance the physical and virtual environment
PRIORITY 1
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   9  Objective 1.2: Increase internationalization  
We will establish academic pathways that improve access to international mobility, global 
discovery, and contact with other cultures. We will step up international recruitment and improve 
the support provided to students—from immigration through to graduation—while helping to 
ensure their smooth and successful integration into the job market. We will work in partnership with Québec City, a university city of exceptional potential with numerous top-notch partners. Because knowledge changes the world, Université Laval will facilitate international networking and global partnerships.
 —Action 1.2.1: Recruit globally and attract the best international students in conjunction with partners in the greater Québec City area
 —Action 1.2.2: Welcome, integrate, and help international students on their path to success  
 —Action 1.2.3: Support international mobility and the internationalization of curricula 
 —Action 1.2.4: Develop capacity-building international research collaborations
  Objective 1.3: Attract and support people in their lifelong learning  
We must build bridges to the largest possible pool of learners, regardless of their background and experience. We must be creative in the way we recruit, integrate, and support students in their lifelong learning by adapting to their needs. 
 —Action 1.3.1: Increase lifelong learning opportunities in order to meet the changing needs  
of the job market and people’s various professional, cultural, and civic needs
10   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université Laval  Objective 1.4: Embrace the digital revolution  
We must equip our campus with innovative digital tools inspired by the smart cities movement 
and the 4th industrial revolution in order to offer state-of-the-art services. The use of digital tools will enhance every aspect of the academic and research experience.
 —Action 1.4.1: Develop and implement a digital plan
 —Action 1.4.2: Assume our position as a digital leader
 Objective 1.5: Support equity, diversity, and inclusion  
We will celebrate diversity in all its forms by promoting a climate of equity, respect, and inclusion 
and by building an environment free of sexual violence and harassment. The University will set a benchmark by providing a healthy environment that values respect and equality.
 —Action 1.5.1: Strengthen our ability to live together
 —Action 1.5.2: Enhance measures to support equity, diversity, and inclusion
 —Action 1.5.3: Build a respectful and safe environment that is free of sexual violence  
and harassment
 —Action 1.5.4: Facilitate handling of complaints and reports and conflict resolution
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   11
12   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université LavalEngagement
―
Society and community engagement will underpin all experiences at Université Laval.  
The members of our community will be called on to help meet the important challenges facing 
society, whether in the neighbourhood next door or a developing country. They will do so 
through innovation, courage, and sincere and compassionate commitment, and by actively 
participating in the development and promotion of sustainable health. These ambassadors of 
Université Laval will be called on to contribute to society more than ever.
  Objective 2.1: Be engaged for the well-being of society  
We will initiate interdisciplinary research and training projects that take an innovative approach 
to tackling important societal challenges and train leaders capable of implementing the 
changes needed at the global level. Members of the university community will help lead the 
conversation. Université Laval will leverage the full potential of its research facilities, including 
Institut nordique du Québec, increasing the number of public lectures, meetings, and learning 
opportunities it offers in order to ensure its scientific insights meet the needs of the public.
 —Action 2.1.1: Help shape the future through interdisciplinary solutions to society’s  
biggest challenges
 —Action 2.1.2: Be part of the conversation on tackling social issues
 —Action 2.1.3: Establish a world-class institute for northern research
PRIORITY 2
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   13  Objective 2.2: Transform the campus into a living laboratory  
  and showcase for innovation  
We will promote the dissemination of innovation in all its forms. The University will act as a hub 
for innovation connecting the academic and research community with the broader community. This will allow it to develop its research and educational facilities while showcasing the many concrete benefits they offer.
 —Action 2.2.1: Leverage innovations in research and development more effectively
 —Action 2.2.2: Develop the full potential of research bodies and facilities
 —Action 2.2.3: Foster open science and support basic research
  Objective 2.3: Maintain strong and sustainable partnerships  
The complexity of the collective challenges we face requires partnerships and alliances.  
Université Laval will propose new partnership models in response to community needs.
 —Action 2.3.1: Develop and maintain promising alliances with outside partners
 —Action 2.3.2: Actively contribute to the development of the greater Québec City area
 —Action 2.3.3: Develop training for First Nations peoples with a view to reconciliation
14   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université Laval  Objective 2.4: Promote sustainable health and development  
Having emerged as a world leader for its achievements in sustainable development, Université 
Laval will extend its expertise to the sustainable health of populations. Through multidisciplinary 
projects supported by Alliance santé Québec, the University will work with regional actors  
to make healthy lifestyles and sustainable heath key priorities.
 —Action 2.4.1: Initiate a wide-ranging reflection on sustainable health
 —Action 2.4.2: Boost research and innovation performance in collaboration with  
Alliance santé Québec
 —Action 2.4.3: Leverage our digital leadership to provide access to the PULSAR collaborative 
platform for sustainable health research and intervention  
 —Action 2.4.4: Increase our leadership in sustainable development, notably by promoting sustainable mobility
  Objective 2.5: Support responsible entrepreneurship  
The entrepreneurs in our community innovate and participate fully in the development of society. 
The University will support an engaged citizenry that engenders business ideas contributing  
to sustainable development, flourishing societies, and better ways of live together.
 —Action 2.5.1: Position the University in responsible entrepreneurship
 —Action 2.5.2: Establish an Entrepreneurial Space
 —Action 2.5.3: Increase internship and on-the-job training opportunities for students  
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   15  Objective 2.6: Promote mutual aid, solidarity, and humanitarian  
  and community action  
The University will step up the transfer of knowledge to disadvantaged communities in a spirit 
of solidarity. By promoting open knowledge, we will support both humanitarian aid in developing 
countries and community action here at home.
 —Action 2.6.1: Encourage cooperation and humanitarian and community engagement
  Objective 2.7: Become a laboratory for philanthropic innovation  
Establish a laboratory of social and philanthropic innovation to showcase promising initiatives 
that benefit society as a whole. From internships to scholarships, the University will encourage 
all forms of giving and bear witness to the tangible benefits that philanthropy has. With 
Fondation de l’Université Laval, we will also promote social and philanthropic engagement on 
the part of UL alumni.
 —Action 2.7.1: Develop a culture of philanthropy
 —Action 2.7.2: Cultivate a sense of belonging in the university community and among alumni
16   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université LavalPRIORITY 3
Excellence
―
As an efficient, modern, and transparent institution, Université Laval strives for excellence in 
all facets of its mission, management, and administration. By hinging our actions on collaborative 
networks and practices, we will pool our most effective tools to maximize administrative 
efficiency. Such efforts to optimize Université Laval will allow us focus on bolstering our 
fundamental mission of teaching, research, and knowledge transfer. Driven by our quest for 
excellence, this collaborative shift will contribute to the transformation of the academic and 
research experience and generate more opportunities for members of the university community 
to engage with society.
  Objective 3.1: Work in networks, not silos  
Units will improve communication and synergy by sharing tools, best practices, and services.  
In addition to promoting efficiency through administrative cost control, this across-the-board collaborative approach will lead to bold interdisciplinary initiatives.
 —Action 3.1.1: Develop shared services within the University and with other organizations  
 —Action 3.1.2: Transform teaching and research by bolstering interdisciplinary collaboration
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   17  Objective 3.2: Attract top talent  
The dynamism and reputation of our research teams will allow them to attract leading international 
researchers to our institution. The University will develop workforce management plans and 
recruitment strategies to help raise our international profile and draw the best students. We will 
also fully leverage the attractiveness of our Rouge et Or varsity athletics program.
 —Action 3.2.1: Understand staffing needs
 —Action 3.2.2: Attract and welcome the best teachers and employees
  Objective 3.3: Leverage the full potential of university employees  
Foster personal development and encourage employees to explore new facets of their professional 
life. Provide staff members with a unique and stimulating environment where they can advance 
their careers with a view to improving performance and efficiency.
 —Action 3.3.1: Encourage continuing education for staff
 —Action 3.3.2: Foster academic career development
 —Action 3.3.3: Foster managerial career development
 —Action 3.3.4: Foster professional and support staff career development
18   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université Laval  Objective 3.4: Promote the achievements of university community members  
With over 5, people active on campus and some 3, alumni the world over, the University will 
acknowledge the successes, achievements, and creations of UL students, faculty, and researchers.
From entrepreneurship to research and teaching, Université Laval will shine the spotlight  
on the members of our community.
 —Action 3.4.1: Communicate the achievements of our university community members at the 
local and international levels
  Objective 3.5: Promote sound governance and management practices  
In a spirit of sharing and openness, establish communication mechanisms and tools to ensure 
that Université Laval is recognized for its accessible, simple, and modern approach to 
accountability.
 —Action 3.5.1: Improve University governance  
 —Action 3.5.2: Streamline financial and administrative management
 —Action 3.5.3: Facilitate human resources management
 —Action 3.5.4: Report on implementation of the strategic plan
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   19
Train engaged leaders to tackle the major challenges facing society
 —Develop ground-breaking interdisciplinary and partnership-based academic 
and research initiatives to address critical social and global challenges
 —Call for projects that mobilize all faculties to develop learning paths based on 
major social issues rather than specific disciplines
 —Instil a new paradigm regarding the role of university education in providing the skills students need to be successful leaders
Rethink education. Make it an active endeavour that embraces both 
a digital and a human approach
 —Presenting the full range of experience-based learning options showcases  
the importance of the campus experience
 —The dynamic give-and-take of experience-based education will create unparalleled 
learning opportunities enhanced by partnerships with the community
 —Classroom, internship, and on-the-job learning opportunities for everyone,  
no matter what the discipline
Establish a world-class institute to promote research excellence for  
the benefit of communities
 —Mobilize the world’s top talent in northern and Arctic research to meet the 
pressing scientific challenges facing northern societies
 —Build the Institut nordique du Québec research pavilion, a groundbreaking 
facility dedicated to the North
 —Establish network sharing infrastructure to ensure access to exceptional physical 
and scientific resourcesLearning  
through  
experience 
Institut nordique 
du QuébecInitiatives for  
the futureInspiring projects  
that will make us better  
―
―
―
20   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université Laval
Strengthen international mobility and student engagement  
in the world
 —The standard-bearer for a new generation of globally minded students 
committed to transforming society
 —A sustainable and hopeful approach to living better together
 —A fund dedicated in equal measure to international student recruitment and 
UL student mobility
Motivated, engaged, and inspiring—recognizing the true value  
of University staff
 —A brand new recognition activity 
 —Spreading the word on the achievements of dedicated members of the 
university community devoted to our mission
 —A tradition in the making to celebrate staff commitment and engagement
The power of a university community driven by a network-based 
approach
 —A new dynamic of cooperation between units, faculties, and departments for 
greater efficiency in the pursuit of our mission
 —Modern tools to streamline the flow of knowledge
 —Leveraging the synergy between the university community and its many 
partners to enhance our academic and research offeringsFonds Citoyens  
du monde
UL Recognition
From silos  
to networks―
―
Dare | Inspire | Achieve   21
22   2017–2022 Strategic Plan — Université Laval
PHOTOS
Benoit Bruhmuller: Cover page and page 15
Hélène Bouffard/L’effet A: Page 4 (photo of Marie-France Poulin)Benoît Camirand/FSA ULaval: Page 21 (photo 3)Martin Fortier/ArcticNet: Page 20 (photo 3)Jean-François Rivard: Page 22Marc Robitaille: Pages 2, 5 (photo of Sophie D’ Amours),  
7, 8, 12, 16, 19, 2 (photos 1 and 2), and 21 (photo 2)Université Laval: Page 11Université Laval/Bureau international: Page 21 (photo 1)Photo Thinkstock: Page 4 (top)
2017–2022 Strategic Plan
ulaval.ca/ensemblelavenir
DC_02-2018_102153
UNIVERSITÉ LAVAL
THE INFECTIOUS ENERGY
OF A COMMUNITY
ON THE MOVE 
