UGR2031Strategic Plan
(Abridged English version) 
Translated by the Language Services Unit (Vice-Rectorate for Internationalization) 



2031 UGR Strategic Plan 
Strategic Plan 2031 UGR Introduction 7 Guiding principles 10 Development process 14 Mission, vision and values of the UGR 22 
Pillars and strategic lines 26 
Transformative projects 99 Singular campuses 113 The UGR in figures (2020/2021)116  Strategic Plan Steering Committee 118 Coordination of the working groups 119 1. Developing people 31 2. Transformational learning 39 3. Generation of knowledge 47 4. Transformation of the environment 55 5. A socially responsible University 63 6. Good governance 71 7. An international University 81 8. Digital transformation 89 

7 UGR2031 Introduction 
Universities must respond to the transformations that are taking place as a result of crises and changes in society. Likewise, they must be able to generate and promote scientific knowledge and international projection while interacting with their socio-economic environment. The more effective universities are in this process of knowledge generation and learning, the greater the development of collective intelligence, and thereby the greater their success. Hence, universities must play a leading role in addressing these challenges to achieve a fair, balanced, sustainable, inclusive and egalitarian society. A better University requires supporting certain actions and avoiding others; in other words, planning is necessary. However, the key to a successful strategic plan lies not so much in planning as in reflecting on what the institution is and what it aspires to be, along with defining its goals and objectives. In this regard, the development of the UGR 2031 Strategic Plan has represented an opportunity to rethink our university model, to mark the path of its adaptation to the demands of the global knowledge society and to lay the foundations for the present and future of our institution. All of this has been done taking as our strategic horizon the year 2031, which will mark our V Centenary. We have carried out a rigorous and open process of strategic reflection with a broad participation of the university community and the society we serve. Nearly 500 members of our university community and society have been directly involved in the working groups and think tanks we created, contributing their invaluable and enriching perspective as external participants. 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 8 
We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to all those who directly or indirectly participated in the development of this Strategic Plan for their commitment to the University and their generous dedication during the difficult pandemic times in which it was drafted. The result of their efforts is this document, based on a rigorous analysis of our strengths and weaknesses, which sets out the expectations for the future of the University of Granada in the form of strategic areas and lines of action that must guide our activity over the next decade. We would also like to thank all the members of the Strategic Plan Steering Committee, as well as the coordinators of the working groups. In particular, we thank the staff of the Vice-Rectorate for Institutional Policy and Planning, its Vice-Rector, Professor Pedro Mercado Pacheco, and the Director for Strategic Planning, Professor Salvador del Barrio García, for their excellent work in coordinating a broadly participatory and consensual drafting process, which is in itself the first major achievement of this new Strategic Plan. The UGR 2031 Strategic Plan is a planning exercise that will help our institution make proposals and decisions beyond the short term. Moreover, the Plan will allow us to face the future challenges of the knowledge society, as well as the new economic and social model we are heading towards in the next decade. All of this will be done with our sights set on Horizon 2031, the year of our V Centenary. 
Pilar Aranda Ramírez Rector of the University of Granada April 2022 

UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 10 Guiding principles In accordance with the values that define our institution, resulting from our history and identity, the following principles form the basis of this Strategic Plan: 1. Our University must be open to learning, knowledge and debate. Accumulated knowledge is the necessary raw material for the continuous improvement of the University's basic processes: teaching, research, innovation and knowledge transfer to society. In a self-critical and autonomous way, the University must be guided by knowledge and the disinterested search for truth. A living University is one that engages in a continuous learning process, is open to new ideas and processes derived from innovation and the advancement of knowledge, has its structures designed to accommodate continuous change, and strives to overcome corporate inertia and resistance. 2. Our University must promote processes of social, cultural and economic transformation. The University must be a driving force for sustainable development in order to promote social cohesion and equal opportunities among people. It must be able to anticipate new technological developments and the globalisation of the economy, which will pose significant challenges and opportunities. The complexity of this environment requires the University to collaborate with other actors, combining forces and generating synergies to lead the response to change. The University of Granada is unequivocally committed to culture and heritage, as evidenced by the multitude of initiatives that we have undertaken over the years which serve as a reference not only for us, but also for the city and province of Granada. For the celebration of its V Centenary, our University must establish close links with other institutions in its vicinity and propose joint strategies. 
11 UGR2031 
3. Our University must be committed to its environment and to the goals of sustainable development. In addition to equipping students with solid skills for today's world, higher education must foster the development of ethically-minded citizens who are committed to the promotion of peace, the defence of human rights and the cultivation of democratic values. The University must be at the forefront of social change on issues related to gender equality, access to education, inclusion, accessibility, environmental sustainability, and the fight against climate change and its effects. It should incorporate principles of ethics, good governance and social commitment into its core functions. Furthermore, our University must be able to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into its policies and all its activities, including training, research, knowledge transfer, management, outreach and service to society. 4. Our University must be people-oriented and inclusive. Universities should help students to broaden the range of opportunities available to them, as well as to promote their professional and personal development.The University is responsible for educating new generations in the values of diversity and inclusion, the culture of solidarity, care for the environment, human development and the practice of sport. Likewise, the University must promote learning environments that favour the development of a critical, transformative and collaborative culture. University management should be people-oriented and strive to create a set of working conditions and a university culture that allow for stable and appropriate career advancement, work-life balance and a healthy life style. 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 12 5.  Our University must be focused on leadership and excellence. The University must be committed to leadership in all its scopes of action —teaching, research, knowledge transfer and the generation of culture— as a means of advancing society and being prepared to face the great global challenges of the future. The University of Granada has an unwavering commitment to teaching excellence, which is embodied in the coordination and optimisation of all processes related to academic and administrative management, and our accountability for the learning process of our students. Excellence in research is our hallmark for the generation and transfer of knowledge contributing to the development, progress and welfare of society. The University must strive to maintain its leading role in the international arena, focused on Europe and open to the world. It must also continue to act as a social leader in its environment and as an agent for the generation and vitalisation of culture. 6.  Our University must be aware of its tradition and historical relevance. With almost five hundred years of history, our University must have a clear understanding of what it represents for society. Likewise, our institution must know and transmit its traditional values and the importance of its historical background in the advancement of scientific knowledge and socio-economic development. In short, the University of Granada must build its future without losing sight of its past, its collective identity and its cultural values. 7.  Our University must be proud of itself in order to reinforce a sense of belonging among the people who make up its community. Our historical tradition, together with our leadership and prestige as a Spanish and international higher education institution, should increase our sense of pride in belonging to this institution. A smart University is one that fosters a sense of belonging among its members, and encourages their commitment and involvement in the achievement of common goals.  

UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 14 Development process  As stated in the Methodological Framework Document for the Development of the Strategic Plan, approved by the Governing Council on 23 July 2020 and subsequently ratified by the Strategic Plan Steering Committee at its meeting on 21 October 2020, the Strategic Plan has been developed through a participatory, flexible and open working methodology, open to all members of the university community and society, with the purpose of gathering strategic proposals and jointly defining the future of the University of Granada. 
15 Development of the UGR 2031 Strategic Plan (Overview) 
Threats vs opportunities Strategic planning Control 
Strategic lines Goals University open to knowledge Strategic proposals  Strategic lines Goals Transformative University Engaged University Vision Participatory process Human and inclusive University  Leading and excellent University  Strategic lines Goals Open process Strategic areas University with tradition and history Strategic lines Goals  Transparent process University proud of itself Strengths vs weaknesses      
   
                       
                                   Mission + values    
   
16 Organisational structure of the UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 
Executive bodies Mission Strategic Plan Steering Committee Vision Strategic formulation Values Strategic areas  Approval body  Vice-Rectorate for Institutional Policy and Planning Directorate for Strategic Planning   Participation bodies         
 Social Council    Senate    Governing Council   University and citizen participation   Working groups      
17 UGR2031 
The first stage of the process involved the design and implementation of an organisational structure responsible for driving and coordinating the entire process. This structure consisted of an executive body, a participation body and an approval body. The second stage consisted of an analysis and diagnosis process to assess the current state of the institution, both internally and in comparison with other institutions from our neighbouring environment, Europe and other countries. During this stage, we identified the main strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities that our University will have to face in the coming years. In the third stage of the process, the Strategic Plan Steering Committee defined the Mission, Vision and Values of the University of Granada, which were then reviewed and discussed during the participatory process. During the fourth stage, we developed a strategic formulation via a participatory process open to all members of the university community and social partners. This stage involved the formation of eight working groups of experts in various areas and the creation of eight think tanks, accessible to the entire university community, as a mechanism for generating ideas. The groups formed were: (1) People, identity and participation; (2) Teaching and learning; (3) Research, innovation and transfer; (4) Economic model, transfer and environmental transformation; (5) Society, culture and social projection; (6) Governance, management and funding; (7) Internationalization; (8) Digital transformation. 
 
19 UGR2031 Working groups Participants: 248. No. of work meetings: 44 People, identity and participation Coordinator: Rafael Cano Participants: 34 people No. of meetings: 4 Teaching and learning Coordinator:  Inmaculada Ramos Participants: 33 people No. of meetings: 7 Society, culture and social projection Coordinator: Margarita Sánchez Participants: 33 people No. of meetings: 4 Research, innovation and transfer Coordinator: Sergio Navas Participants: 31 people No. of meetings: 5 Governance, management and funding Coordinator: Miguel Ángel Guardia Participants: 27 people  No. of meetings: 8 Internationalization Coordinator: María Teresa Bajo Participants: 21 people No. of meetings: 5 Economic model and environmental transformation Coordinator: Gregorio Jiménez  Participants: 36 people No. of meetings: 2 Digital transformation Coordinator: Pedro García Participants: 22 people No. of meetings: 9 Think tanks Participants: 204 People, identity and participation Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 27 people Teaching and learning Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 25 people Society, culture and social projection Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 23 people Research, innovation and transfer Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 29 people Governance, management and funding Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 23 people Internationalization Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 28 people Economic model and environmental transformation Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 26 people Digital transformation Coordinator: Medialab Participants: 23 people 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 20 
This process of strategic reflection has been accompanied by a series of conferences and round tables entitled "La UGR ante el Horizonte 2031.  Reflexiones para la elaboración del Plan Estratégico" (UGR's Horizon 2031: Reflections for the development of the Strategic Plan). In these conferences and round tables, which have taken place over several months, Spanish and international experts have discussed the various strategic areas addressed by the Plan. The strategic formulation that emerged from the open participatory process resulted in a first draft of the Strategic Plan. This draft was assessed and reviewed by the Strategic Plan Steering Committee, which subsequently issued a proposal for the 2031 Strategic Plan of the University of Granada. Following a period of public exhibition to the entire university community, the Strategic Plan was finally approved by the Social Council, the University Senate and the Governing Council. 
21 Participatory process of the UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 
Working groups People, identity and participation Teaching and learningOpen to the entire university communityChallenges of Higher Education Research, Governance, management and funding Round tables and conferences Working groups developmentOnline participation Experts in various areas Digital transformation Proposals for the future Suggestions boxEconomic model and environmental transformation innovation and transfer Internationalization Digital transformation Sustainable development Society, culture and social projectionInternationalization University and citizen participation process 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 22 Mission, vision and values of the UGR Mission 
The University of Granada, founded in 1531 and with a presence on two continents, is a public institution of higher education committed to the values of inclusion, equal opportunity, respect for diversity and sustainable development. Our University strives to make significant contributions to the challenges facing humanity by various means — fostering intellectual plurality and excellence in the development of its functions, training people of integrity, generating value for society and leading technological, economic and social transformations through knowledge and the dissemination of culture and its heritage.   
23 UGR2031 Vision 
By 2031, the University of Granada aspires to be: A university that offers a range of quality undergraduate and postgraduate courses in all fields of knowledge, tailored to the demands of society, as well as lifelong learning to support both personal and professional development. An institution recognised for its research excellence, highly regarded for promoting social change through the generation and transfer of knowledge, and praised for transferring the results of its research and innovative activity to the general public. A university connected to its environment, co-creating knowledge and innovation through its involvement with other organisations, institutions and companies, and through its creation of value for society. A socially responsible university, inclusive, respectful of human rights and committed to the principles of equal opportunity, gender equality and sustainable development goals. A cosmopolitan university, located in an open Europe, with a strong international presence and an attractive environment for talent recruitment. A university that develops its activities with integrity, free from any interference that could compromise its values, and with sufficient financial and organisational autonomy to fulfil its functions with quality and excellence. A university with a democratic and participatory governing system, as well as agile, transparent and flexible governance models that contribute to its effective functioning. A dynamic university that drives the technological, social and economic transformation of society, while cultivating talent and entrepreneurship. A university devoted to the creation of culture, the transmission of cultural and scientific legacy, and the preservation and dissemination of its heritage. 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 24 Values 
The University of Granada upholds a set of values and ethical principles that underpin its institutional mission. These values can be found in the UGR Code of Ethics, which outlines the principles that should guide the conduct of members of the university community in academic matters and orientate their ethical behaviour towards the social partners, centres and organisations who collaborate with the University.  Academic freedom and autonomy Academic freedom is at the core of our University's activity. The University is an independent institution that uses research and teaching to generate and transmit knowledge and culture in a self-critical way. Dignity and respect The University of Granada strives to provide an environment that respects the dignity, freedom and autonomy of each individual. Moreover, it seeks to be a place where the university community can find the ideal conditions for carrying out its work, and where human development and talent can thrive. Equality, diversity and inclusion The University is committed to promoting full equality of opportunity for all of its members across all of its activities and functions, such as access to education, culture and the University's social life. University coexistence must be based on inclusion as well as the recognition and acceptance of diversity. Academic integrity and honesty Our University must be a place where students can learn the values of integrity and honesty, respect for the work of others and mutual trust. Individuals in the university community must exhibit and demand the highest standards of academic integrity and honesty, as well as eliminate common forms of academic and scientific fraud.  
25 UGR2031 
Good governance, transparency and accountability The University's governing bodies, single-member offices and members of the collegiate bodies shall comply with the general interest and act in a responsible, exemplary and transparent manner, rejecting abuses of power and using resources appropriately. Co-responsibility and excellence Responsibility involves the conscientious execution of duties and tasks related to teaching, research, management or learning. Excellence, on the other hand, requires that every member of the university community meets the highest standards of performance and commitment to public service. Commitment to sustainable development The University must adopt an effective sustainable development policy that guides its decision-making and actions. It is the responsibility of all members of the university community to guarantee the economic, social and environmental sustainability of their activities. Particularly, the University should promote the goals of the 2030 agenda and ensure the proper use and conservation of its heritage. Public service and commitment to the institution As a public service, all the activities of the University of Granada are geared towards fostering economic and social development and contributing to a more equitable society. In order for the University of Granada to contribute to a better society, all the people that comprise our institution must demonstrate their professional commitment and willingness to improve the University by working in an engaged manner. The University will cultivate institutional pride and a sense of belonging to the institution. 
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 26 Pillars and strategic lines 
In order to address the challenges of the future in the next decade, the strategic proposals to be developed have been grouped around eight major strategic axes, two of which are regarded as cross-cutting areas as they permeate all of the University of Granada's governmental actions: internationalization and digital transformation.  All these proposals will undoubtedly be driven by a series of large-scale transformational projects in which the institution is currently involved, such as UGR-DONES, UGR-AI and UGR-Sostenibilidad, which must serve as driving projects for its transformation over the next decade. All of these projects will be developed within the framework of the celebration of the V Centenary of the UGR and the Arqus European University Alliance.   
27 Strategic axes and driving projects 
Transformational learning A socially responsible University Developing people Generation of knowledge Transformation of the environment Good governance 
Transformative projects An international University Digital transformation 
UGR-Sostenibilidad UGR-AI UGR-Dones Arqus Alliance V Centenary Horizon UGR2031 
  
1. Developing people 2. Transformational learning 3. Generation of knowledge 4. Transformation of the environment 5. A socially responsible University 6. Good governance 7. An international University 8. Digital transformation 

31 1.  Developing highly engaged people involved with the institution We want to contribute to the development of people of integrity by providing continuous support throughout their university and/or professional lives. We want to be a University with a highly motivated and committed staff, encouraging engagement among all members of the university community. We want the University to contribute to people's health at every level. UGR2031
1. Developingpeople32 1.1. To improve mechanisms in order to help members of the university community increase their understanding of the University and promote their effective integration Why? University groups need to count on appropriate mechanisms that ensure their support from the moment they join the UGR to their subsequent academic and/or professional development at various levels. All groups will thus be able to get a clear picture of the mission and vision of the UGR, of its various units and functions, and of the structure and functionality of the centres and/or services in which they are integrated, thereby being imbued with the values of the UGR. All of this will be done as part of the growing internationalization of the University. How? By developing support and mentoring procedures that favour the integration of all members of the community into university life. By improving the knowledge of all groups about the values, structure and functions of the institution. By creating a sense of belonging among the groups from the moment they join the institution. 

33 1.2. To develop a comprehensive counselling service to improve students’ entrepreneurship and integration into employment Why? One of the challenges facing Spanish public universities is to improve the employment rate of graduates. To achieve this, it is necessary to implement proposals for improvement in this area. In recent years, our institution has made important efforts to promote entrepreneurial culture and career guidance among students through its Directorate for Entrepreneurship (UGRemprendedora) and the Employment and Work Placement Office (CPEP). However, for the next decade, it is necessary to redouble efforts and resources in this area by providing a comprehensive service through the Alumni collective. How? By establishing and strengthening a comprehensive counselling service for entrepreneurship and labour market integration of students and the Alumni collective, starting from the earliest stages of their studies at the University. 4ualified staff from the institution will provide this service, along with highly experienced external professionals. By cooperating closely with organisations and experts in the field of entrepreneurship who are aware of labour market trends. UGR2031

1. Developingpeople34 1.3. To foster the personal and professional development of staff by continuously enhancing their skills and working environment, and to encourage their involvement and participation throughout their professional careers  Why? In the 21st century, our University requires staff members that are not only qualified, but also highly motivated and engaged with the institution. The UGR is structured into open, dynamic, proactive and anticipative management teams that help respond effectively to the challenges and demands of a rapidly changing world. How? By supporting and encouraging the personal and professional development of the UGR staff and by continuously improving their skills. By supporting the development of a working environment focused on quality, equal opportunities, talent and inclusion, while promoting the stabilisation and promotion of staff by providing the necessary economic resources. 

35 1.4. To achieve a high degree of interrelation both among the groups of the university community and between these groups and the institution itself, in order to achieve a greater involvement and sense of belonging among them  Why? It is essential to reinforce the feeling of belonging to the institution by modifying attitudes of disengagement or low involvement present in certain sectors of the university community, ranging from problems affecting career performance or the working environment of staff to the lack of active participation of students in representative bodies and in university life activities. How? By promoting relationships between and within groups in order to develop a shared identity and a sense of belonging. By fostering activities that contribute to creating informal, cross-cutting, participatory and collaborative forums for meetings and exchange. By encouraging cooperation networks between community groups and the social environment. By implementing mechanisms that enhance the value of all groups. UGR2031

1. Developingpeople36 1.5. To ensure an appropriate level of well-being and emotional health for the members of the university community Why? A university·s greatest asset is its human capital, so maintaining both the physical and emotional health of its members should be one of its priorities. A number of recent studies have shown that the emotional health of university students is increasingly affected by factors such as social pressure, job uncertainty, academic performance, fear of failure or belonging to certain groups such as the LGBTI community, among others. How? By providing comprehensive emotional health services to all members of the university community. By establishing rapid and agile responses to health problems through the implementation of listening, help and support mechanisms. By contributing to the destigmatisation of emotional health problems through information and awareness-raising campaigns. By improving services for people suffering from addictions, as well as from emotional and affective-sexual disorders. By offering a wide range of sporting activities that promote healthy lifestyles. 

37 Culture of equality and respect for the diversity of people at the University The development of highly motivated and committed people requires a culture of equality and respect for diversity that allows individuals to realise their full potential. In its 2nd Action Plan for Gender Equality, the University of Granada points out the need to develop awareness-raising and non-formal education actions linked to gender equality and the protection of sexual, bodily and gender diversity in order to achieve real equality in the labour and academic spheres. For these equality goals to be achieved, we need to apply a gender perspective to the area of occupational health, create a balanced composition in all university bodies and develop policies for conciliation and co-responsibility. A culture of equality that eliminates all forms of discrimination, harassment and violence in our institution. 59/5'
arch Future milestones To have a student support and mentoring programme in all faculties and schools. To maintain overall levels of student satisfaction with the performance of the teaching staff above an average of 4 out of 5 over the period covered by the plan (the average in the last 5 academic years was 3.9/5 in undergraduate degrees and 4/5 in master's degrees).   To ensure that 100 of newly hired teaching and research staff (PDI) and administrative and support staff (PAS) have taken part in training and/or mentoring and support programmes in their centres and services. To achieve a rejuvenation of staff to an average age below 50 for teaching and research staff (in 2021 the average age was 51). To continue to lead Spain in the training of research staff (FPU, Juan de la Cierva, Ramón y Cajal). To ensure that at least 50 of graduating students are part of the UGR Alumni Programme. UGR2031
381. Desarrollode personas

39 2.  Transformational learningthat focuses on personal and professional development, is fully integrated with research and addresses societal challenges Our objective is to achieve a learning process oriented towards the development of people who seek to transform society, based on a culture of effort and the promotion of lifelong learning. We will promote teaching that is aligned with our excellence in research, based on inter- and multidisciplinarity, with a high degree of flexibility and focused on employability through connections with the socio-economic environment. UGR2031
2. Transformationallearning40 2.1. To provide students with a lifewide, interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary education that develops critical and committed thinking and enables them to thrive in a complex and pluralistic society in need of people who contribute to the common good  Why? The current situation of transformation and change that our society is undergoing calls for a comprehensive education of students, based on an appropriate combination of knowledge, competences, abilities, skills and values that promote reflection and critical thinking, argumentation, decision-making, coexistence and intercultural communication. How? By creating a university policy of academic guidance and tutoring that provides students with ongoing monitoring throughout their university life in order to make them feel supported. By advising students to make decisions in complex contexts, through an education that allows them to know their weaknesses and strengths in order to face and successfully resolve their future life and professional projects. By combining scientific and technological advances with humanistic and ethical training that meets the demands of global citizenship and sustainable development goals. By incorporating teaching staff·s research findings into student training as a form of knowledge transfer. 

41 2.2. To promote active and flexible learning by using innovative and student-centred didactic methodologies Why? It is crucial to promote active and innovative teaching and learning methodologies in order to replace traditional learning models that contribute to students· demotivation and eventual withdrawal from studies. Student-centred methodologies seek to enhance the teaching and learning process, making it more flexible and adaptable to various contexts. Likewise, these methodologies strive to generate new online and multimedia-based content formats in order to improve teaching quality, provide access to resources and services and facilitate processes of collaboration and exchange.How? By assuring a continuous improvement in the skills and methods of our teaching staff, as well as an adequate and coherent appreciation of teaching as a key pillar of university activity. By supporting the development of organisational structures that foster the continuous and ongoing training of teaching staff, the acquisition of digital skills and their adaptation to the needs of higher education in a pluralistic and globalised world. UGR2031

2. Transformational learning42 2.3. To have a catalogue of degrees with greater curricular flexibility, interdisciplinarity, cross-curricularity and orientation towards internationalization Why? Today·s curricula are characterised by a certain degree of rigidity, both because of the limited choices available to students and because of the inability to modify curricula in a way that allows for rapid adaptation to social challenges and changes in the socio-economic environment. For this reason, we need to be more dynamic in modifying and adapting curricula to the needs of society in order to attract talent among students. In addition, existing quality assurance and accreditation systems must be redesigned in order to increase degree flexibility. How? By moving towards greater flexibility in curriculum design and modification. By optimising the University·s resources and capacity to overcome the obstacles that hinder its ability to adapt to changes occurring in society, student demand and the socio-economic environment. 

43 2.4. To promote a range of academic programmes that, guided by our excellent research and its relevance to the demands of society, provides students with the practical and intellectual skills they need to succeed in their professional field Why? During the last decade, postgraduate education has become a key element of student training and employability. Universities must therefore offer attractive postgraduate programmes that meet the needs of an ever-changing society, enabling graduates to succeed in the workplace. In order to achieve this, postgraduate education must be better linked to its social and productive environment, especially in the case of master·s degrees. Moreover, the existence of private universities and other organisations offering more flexible and agile degree programmes may be viewed as a threat, but it can also represent a chance for us to adjust and connect our postgraduate offer with the productive fabric and society in general. How? By utilising the UGR·s research potential in all fields of knowledge, its ability to attract postgraduate students, and its socio-economic impact and leadership in our environment. By offering innovative, practice-driven postgraduate degrees that provide students with professional development opportunities and help them apply creative, critical and entrepreneurial thinking for the transformation of society. UGR2031

2. Transformationallearning44 2.5. To establish the UGR as a benchmark for continuing education and training through a teaching ecosystem that addresses the needs of lifelong learning Why? Society in general, and the productive fabric in particular, are increasingly demanding new flexible and inclusive training formulas that respond to the needs of lifelong learning. Thanks to the knowledge potential of its teaching staff, the experience acquired in recent years in the use of virtual methodologies and its extraordinary digital resources, the UGR has an exceptional opportunity to become a Spanish and international benchmark of academic excellence for individuals seeking training to develop themselves both professionally and as people of integrity. How? By promoting academic programmes that address the lifelong-learning needs of a knowledge-based society. By supporting the development of this flexible, modular and inclusive training, including the use of micro-credentials to recognise competences at both Spanish and international level. 

45 Developing equality through training Transformative learning should promote equality and respect for diversity as a response to one of society's greatest challenges.  This requires university education that addresses gender equality, respect for sexual, gender and bodily diversity, and the empowerment of women and girls.  It is important to make these subjects into transversal competences not just by incorporating them into the design of curricula and course guides, but also by implementing training activities with a feminist and gender perspective that enable lifelong learning. Future milestones To ensure that around 50 of the teaching andresearch staff (PDI) have engaged in teaching innovation and training activities. To significantly improve the UGR's graduate employment rate to around the average of the Spanish university system by 2031 (in 2020 the UGR was below the Spanish average). To ensure that at least 50 of bachelor's degree graduates have completed work placements as part of their training. To bring the student dropout rate to at least below 20 (in the academic year 2020/2021 it was 27.71). To increase the number of double degrees or international joint master's degree programmes by 25 (the UGR had 17 in the academic year 2020/2021). To ensure that 20 of all doctoral theses are defended as cotutelle theses (5.1 in the academic year 2020/2021), 75 receive an "International Doctorate" Mention (41.67 in the academic year 2020/2021) and up to 5 receive an "Industrial Doctorate" Mention (0.5 in the academic year 2020/2021). UGR2031

47 3. Generation of knowledge thatcontributes to solving society's global challenges and adds value to its environment We want to become a benchmark institution for research excellence and a leader in a cosmopolitan and open world, promoting social change by generating knowledge, recruiting talent and transferring the results of our research and creative activity to the public. UGR2031
3. Generation ofknowledge48 3.1. To guarantee research excellence by enhancing the strength of our human capital, reinforcing plans for attracting and retaining talent in an effort to ensure international, competitive and cutting-edge training Why? Excellence in research is built upon the abilities and qualities of the people conducting it. Consequently, it is necessary to develop a series of measures to attract, retain and update research staff and research-support staff at the UGR. How? By committing to creating a community of excellent researchers across all fields of knowledge and all stages of their academic career. By providing solid and stable funding to enhance the resourcing of talent attraction and retention. 

49 3.2. To maintain and strengthen institutional structures that foster multi- and interdisciplinary knowledge generation under optimal conditions, in an egalitar ian and sustainable environmentWhy? In order to achieve scientific excellence in all areas of knowledge, the UGR must be committed to the transformation, strengthening and consolidation of institutional support structures. Priority should be given to strengthening existing structures, simplifying administrative procedures and supporting researchers in all stages and areas of their relationship with the University. This will help develop a research ecosystem for the optimisation of results, the development of innovations and the improvement of transfer. How? By developing supporting administrative structures that encourage the creation of new research groups, the consolidation of excellent and frontier research groups, and the recruitment of human and material resources. By establishing a framework of institutional support for research that helps optimise these resources. By f acilitating group and project management and by effectively coordinating collaboration between research and support staff. By eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles, and by simplifying administrative procedures. 
UGR2031

3. Generation ofknowledge50 3.3. To have the best human, material, scientific, economic, technological and dissemination resources available in order to achieve research excellence Why? Measures must be taken to create an ecosystem with a solid, flexible and organised structure that allows for excellent research in all areas of knowledge. Moreover, it is essential to develop a digital ecosystem for research, supported by an environment of digital infrastructures and services that enable the establishment of synergies and multidisciplinary collaborations, both internal and external. In particular, high capacities in areas such as ICT infrastructures, supercomputing and artificial intelligence can contribute significantly to the creation of a research ecosystem with great future potential for knowledge generation. How? By increasing our efforts to attract more funding, primarily through European calls for proposals, to enable us to recruit more highly qualified staff. By improving research infrastructures and means, increasing the acquisition of information resources and supporting the dissemination of knowledge. 

51 3.4. To promote Spanish and international alliances to facilitate the interaction of our research staff with other quality research centres in order to increase scientific collaboration and innovation Why? Although the UGR is an international benchmark in terms of participation in incoming and outgoing mobility programmes and international university networks, we must continue to strengthen this international approach in order to increase our collaboration in scientific publications and projects, our visibility and prestige as an institution and our talent recruitment. How? By maintaining our leading position on the international stage while intensifying our institutional interaction with prestigious Spanish and international research centres. By fostering new alliances, committing to a total openness to the world and strengthening our preferential connections and partnerships with Europe, North Africa and Latin America. UGR2031

3.Generation ofknowledge52 
Generating knowledge related to gender equality and respect for diversity In order for our institution to generate knowledge that contributes to solving society's global challenges, we must foster and disseminate our research in gender and feminist studies, as well as our studies focusing on sexual, bodily and gender diversity. Through research, we can not only dismantle the stereotypes that underpin inequality, but also generate new knowledge, the transfer of which will enable us to create more informed and equitable societies. In addition, women·s contributions as researchers and creators must be made visible, and their leadership in research groups, units of excellence, projects and research contracts should be promoted, particularly in STEM fields. 
et o pber ofFuture milestones To be recognised as one of the top 200 universities in the world according to the main international rankings and to place 12 scientific fields among the top 150 universities in the world (8 in 2021). To attain a minimum of 4 "Severo Ochoa" and "María de Maeztu" Centres of Excellence accreditations over the period covered by the plan. To ensure that 15 of the publications of UGR researchers are among the top 10 of the most cited publications (12.99 on average in the period 2012-2021).To consolidate our position among the top three Spanish universities and as the top Andalusianuniversity in terms of the number of competitive projects obtained within the framework of the Spanish National Plan.To increase the amount of competitive funding raised from the Horizon Europe programme compared to the funding raised in the Horizon 2020 programme by 25 over the period covered by the plan. 
53 UGR2031
1. Desarrollode personas

55 4.  Transformation of the environment throughinnovation, entrepreneurship and active collaboration with socio-economic actors We want to become an institution that transforms the environment through innovation and the transfer of the excellent knowledge we generate. We want to transform the economic and social environment over the next decade through the major projects that our institution has already initiated, as well as through any projects associated with new opportunities that may emerge in the coming years. We want to become a collaborative institution that attracts companies, resources and talent by partnering actively with socio-economic actors. We want to become an entrepreneurial University focused on generating a positive impact on the economy and society. 
UGR2031
4.Transformation of theenvironment56 4.1. To achieve a high capacity for knowledge transfer and to place the institution at the forefront of Spanish research in accordance with its research potential Why? Traditionally, Spanish universities have not been sufficiently oriented towards transfer and innovation, which is why we occupy a much lower position in international research rankings than what would be expected based on our research potential. Therefore, efforts should be made to promote a change in the organisational culture of the institution and the immediate productive environment in favour of innovation and transfer. For this, we aim to foster closer and more effective partnerships between the UGR and the socio-economic fabric through the definition of common objectives. How? By changing the organisational culture of the institution to boost knowledge transfer. By implementing an institutional policy of knowledge transfer and promotion through its own specific plans. By changing the governance system to focus more effectively on transfer and devote more material and human resources to this activity. By expanding and consolidating structures related to the transfer of results. 

57 4.2. To implement institutional communication policies that convey and promote the high scientific capacities of the UGR at local, Spanish and international level, and that are effective in attracting investment and talent Why? The UGR must develop communication and dissemination strategies aimed at attracting the attention of society and the socio-economic environment to our scientific activities, emphasising our scientific and research activity of excellence, and highlighting the potential of our research groups and the international alliances we lead. The celebration of the V Centenary of the UGR in 2031 should serve as a catalyst for developing a communication programme focused on transfer that attracts the attention of society and the socio-economic actors, and that allows for closer ties and mutual collaboration. How? By making known to society and socio-economic actors the UGR·s research capacity and quality training of its human capital in order to attract the attention of companies, public institutions and social groups. By using the major projects promoted by the UGR as a means of disseminating its high capacities and scientific leadership. By encouraging and supporting institutional events that enable the UGR to attract prominent personalities from the socio-economic world at a Spanish and international level in order to help showcase our scientific potential. By disseminating the achievements of the institution and strengthening our scientific culture. UGR2031

4. Transformation of theenvironment58 4.3. To promote and strengthen alliances with the immediate economic environment in order to increase collaborati on across all functions of the UniversityWhy? In the coming years, it will become necessary to promote relations with the productive fabric in order to enhance collaborations in training and learning activities and to promote the generation of knowledge, innovation and transfer, thus jointly contributing to the transformation of the environment. There are currently great opportunities for attracting resources through the European research programmes for the period 2021-2027 and the Next Generation EU recovery fund. In order to optimise the possibility of securing resources that will enable the effective transformation of the territory, collaboration with economic actors in the area must be intensified. How? By using the knowledge of the UGR as a driving force for the transformation of the environment in collaboration with the productive fabric. By promoting and encouraging knowledge transfer to boost innovation, transform traditional sectors and fuel the development of new, more knowledge- and technology-based sectors. By promoting sectoral forums to bring researchers and research groups closer to socio-economic actors. By i ntensifying the search for partners to participate in competitive calls for proposals. By collaborating with the productive fabric in the training of students and the provision of work placements. 

59 4.4. To promote an entrepreneurial culture among students and teaching and research staff in order to stimulate the creation of knowledge-intensive companies  Why? For years, the UGR has been committed to an entrepreneurship strategy built on the concept of Entrepreneurial University, as endorsed by the European Commission and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in models such as HEinnóvate, which promote universities with an innovative and entrepreneurial ethos. These efforts, although important, are not enough to address the UGR·s enormous potential for transfer, so it is crucial to continue promoting an entrepreneurial culture among students as well as teaching and research staff (PDI). How? By fostering an entrepreneurial culture among students and PDI. By promoting interactions with the regional, Spanish and international innovation ecosystems. By motivating and rewarding research staff who contribute to knowledge transfer and the creation of spin-offs. By encouraging entrepreneurship as a core component of the UGR. By partnering with economic actors to provide entrepreneurship training. UGR2031

4. Transformation of theenvironment60 4.5. To promote the UGR Alumni programme from a Spanish and international perspective in order to foster connections between the institution and its graduates, and to achieve their involvement and collaboration with various functions of the UGR Why? The experiences of UGR graduates, whether as bachelor's or master's degree students, as mobility students or as participants in the Study Abroad programme (CLM), are crucial for the consolidation of a positive image of our institution. Hundreds of thousands of students around the world have graduated from the UGR. Undoubtedly, leveraging all the knowledge and expertise gained is a great opportunity as well as a challenge for our University. Students· sense of belonging to our University lasts beyond the time spent studying or conducting research here, but must be kept alive through systematic and coordinated actions to achieve maximum impact. How? By designing programmes aimed at maintaining contact with graduates and nurturing their sense of belonging in order to ensure their contribution to the international outreach of the UGR as a prestigious university. By enhancing the UGR Alumni programme to give it a quantitative and qualitative boost and a truly international dimension, providing the necessary means and resources based on the number of graduates of the institution. By increasing the UGR's presence in international forums and collaboration with our graduate students. By creating both physical and virtual forums that allow graduates to meet and collaborate in academic activities. 

61 Innovation and transformation of our environment with a gender perspective In order to transform our environment through innovation, entrepreneurship and active collaboration with socio-economic actors, it is essential to apply a special sensitivity to the consideration of gender equality and respect for sexual, bodily and gender diversity as fundamental values. A comprehensive transformation requires partnerships with public and private institutions that promote specific intervention projects in our environment to empower girls and women. Changing our environment involves generating synergies with socio-economic actors which will facilitate the transfer of research results with a gender and feminist perspective and will, in turn, contribute to improving the situation of the most vulnerable social sectors. 
Future milestones To consolidate our position as the fifth Spanish university and the first Andalusian university in terms of number of priority applications for patents and utility models (in the last decade we have been in the top 10). To consolidate our position in the top 5 Spanish universities in the creation of spin-offs (in the last decade we have been in the top 5). To obtain an average of 20 million euros per year via transfer over the period covered by the plan (in 2021 the amount of funding was 12 million euros). To be awarded a minimum of 10 European Innovation Council projects. To be placed within the top 5 Spanish public universities in terms of income generated in R	D (in 2018 we were ranked  10th).       To maintain the economic impact of the UGR in the province in terms of GDP (6.12 in 2018) and  employment (7.7 in 2018). UGR2031

63 5.  A socially responsible University, committed to sustainable development, engaged with its environment and considered a model for the generation of cultureWe want to be a University with a strong commitment to sustainable development. We want to be an egalitarian and inclusive institution that acknowledges differences and transforms them into strengths. We want to be an institution that generates and stimulates culture through a strong presence in the regions where we have campuses, taking advantage of our rich heritage. We want to be a University that puts the welfare of people and the planet at its core, an institution that applies citizen science to its local communities in order to turn the city and the province of Granada, as well as Ceuta and Melilla, into spaces for peaceful coexistence and interaction between people. UGR2031
5. A socially responsibleUniversity64 5.1. To achieve a strong presence in the area through our heritage and cultural richness, being able to generate and dynamise networks related to the creation and dissemination of culture, as well as the preservation and enhancement of our heritage  Why? Our institution must prioritise efforts to improve its presence in the city and province of Granada as well as in Ceuta and Melilla, considering our shared awareness of the role of culture and its potential for citizenship development. With our capacity for creating and disseminating relevant knowledge, our University must commit itself to the multidisciplinary care for heritage, from buildings to knowledge. The appropriate use of these resources will facilitate the peaceful coexistence of our society and the sustainability of our surroundings. How? By ensuring that citizens perceive our campuses as student cities in every sense. By maintaining and reinforcing the status of the UGR as a cultural landmark in the cities where it has a presence. By undertaking top-level actions that position the UGR as a leader in cultural circuits and support its role as a generator and promoter of culture in society. By underscoring the University·s role in historical centres as a social, economic and cultural force, and by emphasising its ability to enrich daily life in its surrounding communities. 

65 5.2. To promote critical thinking and to establish the UGR as a reference for cultural and artistic innovation, with a commitment to creativity, counterculture and the avant-garde Why? Public institutions play an essential role in the preservation and development of cultural diversity. In recent years, the UGR has made a strong commitment to the visibility of alternative cultural manifestations. Nevertheless, it is necessary to establish economic and symbolic mechanisms that promote creativity and the development of diverse (counter)cultural and artistic practices, as they have become a fundamental support for critical thinking and avant-garde culture, which are essential in today's society. How? By implementing a series of actions and procedures that encourage cultural and artistic innovation at our University, with the aim of becoming a cutting-edge institution and a Spanish benchmark in diversity and counterculture. By investing in resources to enhance training in activities and projects that promote cultural and artistic creativity. UGR2031

5. A socially responsibleUniversity66 5.3. To turn the cities of Granada, Ceuta and Melilla into points of contact where the concerns of citizens and the institution's capacity to generate knowledge converge Why? University knowledge must be transferred to all citizens as part of the ongoing communication that higher education institutions must maintain with their stakeholders. Protecting and disseminating knowledge as a right, as well as promoting knowledge as a resource, are duties that the UGR has to carry out from a critical perspective, taking into account both the cultural diversity of our society and the dynamics of internationalization in which we are immersed. How? By turning these cities into meeting places where the University·s proposals and contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda can be shared with the citizens and addressed in accordance with their concerns. By contributing to an open and citizen science that involves people in the resolution of challenges and conflicts. By involving members of the community in scientific activities that encourage their active contribution to research through their intellectual effort, general knowledge, or their own tools and resources. 

67 5.4. To be an environmentally responsible and conscious University that contributes to the mitigation of climate change  Why? The UGR must strive to become an environmentally responsible University and contribute to making the cities in which it is located smarter and more sustainable. It is vital to promote education on sustainable development; respect for biodiversity; reducing pollution and the human impact in the production, marketing and consumption of goods and services; waste treatment and recycling of all types of materials within the context of the circular economy; responsible consumption and reduction of energy and water use; and support for the Internet of Things and Big Data technologies to achieve smarter and more sustainable campuses. The University needs to increase its resilience to the current climate crisis and manage its resources more sustainably. How? By adopting measures to reduce the environmental impact of the UGR and thereby contribute to the protection of the planet. By transforming the economic model through knowledge that prioritises sustainable development and promotes education on biodiversity and respect for the environment. By generating sustainable energies by utilising our facilities and buildings and complementing them with the use of technological systems for energy management and control. By promoting responsible consumption and sustainable mobility. 
UGR2031

5. A socially responsibleUniversity68 5.5. To be an egalitarian and inclusive University that acknowledges differences, turns them into strengths and provides support for those who are part of our institution and our environment, thereby generating knowledge and training for people Why? Universities constitute spaces where people are not only trained as professionals, but also as individuals. Gender gaps and other types of inequalities are still present at university level. Hence, ensuring equal opportunities in higher education, staff selection and career advancement requires an innovative, inclusive, sensitive and effective approach. However, despite the efforts made by the UGR in recent years, further progress in this direction is still needed. How? By addressing the fight against gender gaps in an innovative way in order to guarantee equal opportunities across all areas and functions of the UGR. By advancing in the implementation of institutional equality and inclusion plans, and by aligning these plans with the actions agreed upon with the partner universities of the Arqus European University Alliance. By promoting educational and social inclusion to increase diversity among students, facilitate inclusive admissions and encourage recruitment of talent from under-represented groups. By generating knowledge and training people for the implementation of policies that promote balance between the different areas of their lives. 

A University with a social commitment to equality A socially responsible University must prioritise equality as a fundamental strategic area. The University must ensure that the corresponding equality, inclusion and work-life balance plans are drawn up and monitored, as well as the protocols and instruments derived from them. Because of its rich heritage, the University has a duty to create cultural spaces that give visibility to expressions of gender identity and diversity, thus contributing to a culture that defines us in our true essence, plurality and complexity. As an institution with a presence in three cities, and as part of its engagement with their communities, the University must acknowledge the strategies developed by women throughout history to promote a culture of peace that generates spaces for recognition and coexistence. 69 Future milestones To achieve a balanced representation of women and men in all sectors, levels and bodies of the UGR. To significantly reduce the UGR's CO2 emissions, achieving a reduction of up to 50 in energy savings and the use of clean energy sources. To carry out the comprehensive refurbishment of the built heritage of the UGR catalogued as Cultural Heritage Sites (BIC) in view of our upcoming V Centenary. To achieve the complete museumisation and sustainable dissemination of the UGR's collections of movable assets. To develop a quality cultural programme and a scientific dissemination proposal aimed at preparing the UGR for the celebration of its V Centenary over the period covered by the plan. UGR2031
1. Desarrollode personas

71 6. Good governance thatfocuses on organisational development, lean and transparent management, and financial sustainability We want to be an institution with a participatory, flexible and intelligent governance model, based on agile, transparent and inclusive management, and oriented towards a culture of management evaluation and accountability to society. We want to continuously integrate and redesign our management processes to adapt them to the needs of our users. To this end, we will adopt an omnichannel communication strategy to offer our users a satisfactory experience. We want to streamline the management of our assets and heritage, as well as attract new alternative sources of funding to ensure the financial sustainability of our institution. UGR2031
6. Good governance72 6.1. To implement a more horizontal and participatory governance model that allows for more agile and transparent management, with multipurpose structures that respond to a digital and changing landscape Why? In view of the transformations taking place in society across all levels, the concept of governance needs to be reformulated to respond both to the decline of the traditional management model based on hierarchical and rigid structures, and to the need for new forms of government that are more nimble, flexible, coordinated and supported by digitalisation. Faced with this situation, our institution needs to transform its procedures, rely on multifaceted technical-administrative structures, and firmly commit itself to an ICT-oriented governance and functional structure that can respond much more quickly to changes in the environment, as well as drive new processes and/or redesign existing ones. How? By moving towards a governance model built on participation, collaboration, coordination and a strong commitment to digitalisation, placing value on a more horizontal management approach oriented towards finding agreements in the exercise of institutional functions, and in line with principles of responsibility, transparency and accountability. By taking advantage of technologies at the service of management (big data, artificial intelligence, online administration, among others to ensure that, in the next decade, the UGR becomes an institution with an innovative, agile and transparent management that responds quickly to changes in the environment. 

73 6.2. To rely on data governance for the collection and analysis of institutional data to support planning, management and evaluation Why? Nowadays, it is vital for higher education institutions to have integrated, agile and up-to-date institutional information systems that enable evidence-based decision-making. Likewise, it is essential to respond in a timely manner to all requests for information from other administrations, institutions and university rankings (data governance). The relationship between the UGR and its stakeholders continuously generates a large amount of data that must be recorded, stored, processed and analysed with a strategic view in order to enable decisions in different areas of management and at different levels. In this way, data will become another valuable asset that extends beyond the ICT domain and becomes relevant to the entire university environment. How? By implementing a data governance system at institutional level that allows managers, as well as teaching and research staff (PDI), direct access to the information generated by the University for decision-making and performance measurement tasks. By streamlining university management and rapid decision-making based on objective data for a timely response to information requirements at various levels. UGR2031

6. Good governance74 6.3. To achieve management excellence based on the full digitalisation of the Administration and on a continuous process of innovation, simplification and improvement of services  Why? The University of Granada must integrate technology resources and capabilities in an agile, flexible and continuous manner to achieve a full digital transformation of the university administration, allowing for innovative, effective and efficient management, and thus providing value to society as a whole. As part of this electronic management, the necessary resources must be made available so that users can access digital services from any device and at any time and place through an omnichannel approach. How? By having sufficient material and human resources to make digital services available to all users on any type of device. By anticipating and responding in an agile and rapid manner to new digital needs arising from the relationships between people and our institution. By integrating the latest technologies into the provision of digital services in order to facilitate the access of different groups to public services in a personalised and proactive way. By implementing a 100 electronic document management system. 

75 6.4. To consolidate a culture of accountability in management, fostering organisational entrepreneurship through the promotion of transformation projects Why? Society in general, and the university community in particular, demand a continuous commitment on the part of administrations to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of management processes. This is fostering a culture of performance evaluation aimed at ensuring transparency in management processes, accountability, as well as ethical behaviour and integrity at all levels of the institution. Universities must play a leading role in the new innovative ecosystems, for which it is crucial to invest not only in technological infrastructure, but also in professionalising administrative and service staff across all areas of management in order to address the necessary organisational changes. How? By committing to an assessment and accountability culture designed to overcome the weaknesses identified around the review, simplification and continuous improvement of management processes and tools, and the professionalisation and motivation of staff towards innovation and entrepreneurship in management tasks. By leveraging the strengths derived from our experience and leadership to move towards a management approach based on entrepreneurship and transformative projects. UGR2031

6. Good governance76 6.5. To move towards an omnichannel management strategy in our relationship with stakeholders in order to provide them with value through the integration of information, knowledge, and personalised and coherent communications Why? Due to the advancement of technology in recent years and the demands of society and citizens, all organisations are constantly forced to rethink their processes and services to better suit the relationships with their stakeholders (students, teaching staff, administrative and support staff >PAS@, companies and other administrations). This shift towards integrated management requires the implementation of an omnichannel strategy that goes beyond simply providing users with multiple communication channels. Instead, the goal will be to offer them a single, seamless experience, regardless of what channel they choose or whether they make contact with us via physical or digital channels. How? By focusing on the integration and permanent redesign of management processes to make them simpler and more adapted to the requirements of the environment. By integrating the different channels so that the information of each user flows smoothly between the various stages of the relationship, regardless of the method of contact used. By providing analysis systems that allow for a better understanding of people's needs in their relationships with the University throughout their lives. By communicating coherently and consistently across the various channels that people use to interact in order to provide value and an outstanding experience. 

77 6.6. To optimise the management of our assets and wealth, and find new alternative sources of funding to ensure financial sustainability Why? The challenges currently faced by universities as a result of increased public and private competition for resources, students and talent require optimisation and rationalisation in the use of resources, as well as the diversification and attraction of alternative sources of funding that guarantee the economic sustainability necessary to be able to carry out their basic functions with quality. How? By promoting an organisational culture, as well as new governance and management structures and formulas, to facilitate the attraction of alternative sources of funding through the development of teaching, research, knowledge transfer, sponsorship and dissemination activities. By improving and optimising the management of our assets, heritage and infrastructures in order to attract additional funding from a sustainable development perspective. By making use of new opportunities offered by the environment to attract resources from Spanish and European programmes targeted at digitalisation and energy transition. By rationalising the use of resources by implementing a more agile and efficient management system. 
UGR2031

6. Good governance78 
Achieving inclusive and egalitarian governance For its full development, good governance requires equality. By definition, governance is based on the participation of all the people who make up a community, in our case, the university community, and it involves assessing gender discrimination and inequalities stemming from sexual, bodily and gender diversity that prevent full participation.This means identifying strategies that will increase the capacity of management staff to integrate gender equality measures into plans and budgets. An inclusive and egalitarian governance strategy entails the inclusion of a gender perspective as a source of new ideas and opportunities that enrich the mission, vision and strategies of the University.To this end, parity in all governing bodies must be the principle guiding the governance of our institution. 
79 
byFuture milestones To reduce the number of freely appointed academic posts by 25 as a result of the professionalisation of management. To rely on a planning and management model based on data analytics that facilitates the development of dashboards at different levels over the period covered by the plan. To have a personalised, proactive and omnichannel support service for the university community over the period covered by the plan. To achieve a percentage of financial independence from fundraising with respect to the UGR's overall funding (internal funds) of at least 33 (28.29 in the settled budget for 2020). To increase the current level of funding from sponsorship and patronage programmes by 50. UGR2031

81 7. An international University,open to the world and serving the citizens of a multicultural, global society We want to be an institution in which internationalization is one of the pillars of government action. We want to be an institution with a great future projection in an increasingly globalised and multicultural society for the generation, transmission and transfer of knowledge. We want to maintain our leading position in Europe and reach out to other regions of the world. UGR2031
7. An internationalUniversity82 7.1. To consolidate the Arqus Alliance as an instrument with high prestige and international visibility for the transformation and improvement of teaching, research and innovation, transfer and service to society, as well as internationalization and international outreach Why? As centuries-old institutions facing a period of unprecedented social and technological change, universities must not only adapt to new realities but also lead transformation processes in their main missions of educating citizens and future leaders, generating and transferring knowledge, and serving society. Collaboration with other universities in other countries will enable us to fulfil this role more thoroughly and effectively. Hence, we should seize the opportunity provided by the European Universities Initiative to build a strong, lasting, high-impact and prestigious partnership. How? By leading the Arqus Alliance, one of the 17 alliances selected in the first call of this flagship initiative of the European Commission. By moving forward on common priorities such as diversity and inclusion, teaching innovation and mobility, multilingualism and multiculturalism, entrepreneurship and regional engagement, research support and doctoral programmes, and committed European citizens. By fostering joint research, innovation in knowledge transfer, innovation in academic career assessment, and open and citizen science. 

83 7.2. To promote a cross-disciplinary and comprehensive internationalization of the University Why? Internationalization is a tool that can help us promote excellence in the activity of research groups and teaching teams through talent recruitment. The UGR has achieved a high level of internationalization largely thanks to mobility programmes and initiatives in which our institution has enjoyed sustained and recognised success at Spanish, European and global levels. In spite of these accomplishments, there is still plenty of room for improvement in order to ensure that more students can enjoy a meaningful international experience, and to facilitate the recruitment of foreign talent (students and research staff) from institutions of international prestige. How? By consolidating the presence and leadership of the UGR in regional, Spanish, European and international higher education forums (AUPA, CRUE, EUA, IAU, Arqus, Coimbra Group, AUIP, etc.). By working towards a full implementation of the EHEA, which will lead to a major transformation and improvement of the academic programmes, a greater openness of the institution, and increased incoming and outgoing mobility. By launching a process of internationalization of curricula and the campus that is truly cross-disciplinary and results in gradual changes in the culture of the institution. By ensuring an international perspective in all services of the institution. UGR2031

7. An internationalUniversity84 7.3. To adopt innovative approaches to international mobility with the aim of fostering higher quality, more inclusive and more impactful mobility Why? The UGR has achieved a high level of internationalization largely thanks to the mobility programmes and initiatives in which the institution has enjoyed international success. However, in order to advance towards a more inclusive internationalization with a greater cross-disciplinary impact, it is necessary to promote other forms of mobility, such as short-term mobility periods, voluntary work (service learning), summer and winter camps, and fieldwork leading to the completion of undergraduate dissertations, master's dissertations or doctoral theses. Most importantly, it is essential to explore all the capabilities offered by ICTs in order to develop blended mobilities that combine face-to-face activities with synchronous or asynchronous remote activities. How? By expanding the offer of types of mobility to include a greater proportion of the university community. By incorporating international elements into teaching in an innovative way, thus reducing the need for the whole community to participate in stays abroad. By moving towards the recognition of stays of less than three months (studies) or shorter than two months (work placements) without compromising the quality of the experience, the acquisition of knowledge and the economic conditions. 

85 7.4. To promote the participation of the UGR in university development cooperation Why? The University is a key actor in the field of development cooperation at both Spanish and regional levels, thus making a fundamental contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). By taking on this responsibility, the University furthers its commitment to solidarity with the most disadvantaged countries and social sectors. In turn, cooperation actions with partners in less developed countries are critical for the success of the UGR·s internationalization, and provide important learning opportunities for our students and staff as citizens of an increasingly interdependent and interconnected world. How? By strengthening the UGR's development cooperation structure and plans. By engaging more students and staff and showcasing their potential for transformation. By promoting genuine mutual cooperation and mutual learning for the future peace and prosperity of the entire planet. 
UGR2031

7. An internationalUniversity86 
87 Generating alliances to eliminate gender frontiers A University open to a multicultural and global world must establish partnerships to promote equality regardless of gender, respecting the diversity of body types, sexual orientations and gender identities. The specific lines of work of the Arqus Alliance open up a space for collaboration and exchange on equality among the various institutional traditions and cultures of the participating universities. This is an important instrument for advancing equality, focused on sharing the most inclusive policies at each university and collaborating on training related to these areas. Consequently, the cooperation policies of our institution must continue to apply a gender and feminist perspective in the development of projects that have a real impact on the lives of women and girls in various social and human settings. Future milestones To ensure that 30 of graduates have significant international experience (22.54 in 2021).       To ensure that 30 of teaching and research staff (PDI) and 15 of administrative and support staff (PAS) have significant international experience. To ensure that international students make up 5 of the student body in undergraduate programmes (3.8 in 2020/2021), 25 in master's degree programmes (22.2 in 2020/2021) and 40 in doctoral programmes (33 in 2020/2021). To increase the current foreign languages on offer by 50 in in undergraduate programmes and by 100 in master's programmes over the period covered by the plan.UGR2031
         To increase our international scientific activities and collaboration between 25 and 40.
1. Desarrollode personas

89 8. Digital transformation of the University in all its dimensions We want to become a smart University that improves the lives of people and the work of our staff and students. We want to be a University with a technological infrastructure that is appropriate for the size of our institution and supports the full range of activities we undertake. We want to rely on highly qualified and sufficient technical staff to support and facilitate the development of the institution's basic functions. We want to consolidate our technological autonomy by strengthening our communication networks and maintaining a budget sufficient to ensure their continuous modernisation. We want to continue to build strategic alliances with prominent technology companies and operators in the sector that can contribute to the full digital transformation of the institution. UGR2031
8. Digitaltransformation90 8.1. To strengthen ICT infrastructures and services with the aim of providing appropriate support to the needs and goals of the University Why? Nowadays, for a university to be successful, its technological infrastructure must be well-sized and configured in a way that aligns with its strategic goals. In order to accomplish this, the institution must continuously invest in and upgrade these infrastructures, which must be in line with our University·s basic needs and strategies, and rely on sufficient financial resources. Threats to the security of digital infrastructures and services are increasing, making investments necessary to resolve these issues while maintaining the integrity of systems and the privacy of information and data. How? By relying on a technological infrastructure that is not only appropriately configured and sized for our University, but also supports our strategic objectives. By establishing systems that are resilient to external threats and potential failures. By enabling systems that allow the use of personal devices to enhance teleworking and access to technological resources. By having a sufficient number of highly qualified technical staff to support and facilitate the development of the institution's basic functions. By actively promoting cultural change for digital transformation among university groups. 

91 8.2. To strengthen university communication networks in order to consolidate technological autonomy, maintain a leadership position and guarantee efficient support for technological services Why? In the current context, universities need to have high-performance communication infrastructures that are sustainable over time and aligned with current and future technological advancements. At the UGR, the existing fibre optic network and its associated communications services have become one of the institution·s greatest assets, although it is necessary to continue extending and updating this network in order to meet the growing demands generated by our community. Efforts must be made to attract external funding for the improvement of technological infrastructures and their support, as well as for achieving leadership as a digital University. How? By consolidating our technological autonomy through the enhancement of our university communication networks. By creating high-performance supporting communications infrastructures that are sustainable over time. By budgetarily ensuring that communication infrastructures are continuously updated and renewed in an agile and dynamic way. By forming strategic alliances with leading companies in the technology sector. UGR2031

8. Digitaltransformation92 8.3. To promote a Smart University (Smart-UGR) in order to enable agile mobility and high connectivity between campuses Why? In order to achieve digital transformation within a Smart-University, institutional commitment is required to undertake a variety of actions or projects that can have an impact both on the academic and human aspects of university life. Over the last decades, the UGR has not only proposed and implemented technological solutions for intelligent ICT infrastructures and services, but has also applied sustainability criteria. In this sense, it is vital to continue promoting this objective in the next decade, making use of the infrastructures, services and technological projects of the institution, as well as leveraging the new technological developments being deployed by the industry. It is necessary to implement intelligent systems that integrate the Smart-University concept (Smart-UGR), capable of fulfilling both basic university functions as well as others related to coexistence, rest, leisure, sport, mobility or conciliation in a sustainable way. How? By implementing intelligent systems that enable good connectivity and mobility between campuses. By developing management processes and tools that enable the sensorisation of the institution's physical resources. By establishing alliances with other administrations and companies that have similar resources and interests. By generating renewable energies that reduce the carbon footprint and by deploying accessible tools and control panels. 

93 8.4. To provide people with access to a variety of university resources through digital enabling technologies that enhance their experience Why? A number of administrations are urging actions to promote Digital Enabling Technologies (Internet of Things, blockchain, big data, augmented reality, supercomputing, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, robotics, biometrics and 5G, among others), considering their high impact on the development and digital transformation of the economy and society. Consequently, it is crucial to address the weaknesses identified with regard to the low level of digital skills training within the university community, the growing need for new digital services for university management, and the lack of strategic management of people-related data. There is also a need today to provide accessible technologies to staff and students with special needs. Moreover, technology needs to be harnessed to foster interdisciplinary teams at both teaching and research level. How? By facilitating access to digital resources for all groups and by providing training in digital skills, with a special focus on Digital Enabling Technologies. By ensuring accessible and user-friendly digital platforms, content and resources. By providing technological resources that encourage interdisciplinarity across areas and groups. By improving physical and virtual infrastructures. UGR2031

8. Digitaltransformation94 Bridging the gender gap in digital transformation The digital transformation we want must improve people·s lives by achieving greater equality. To this end, we must narrow the gender gap and promote an inclusive digital transformation in our University, fostering digital competences that enable the participation of women in all areas of our institution. In addition, we must promote scientific career paths and university training for women in STEM fields, as well as introduce a gender lens into research on areas such as artificial intelligence, so as to prevent and detect bias in design and thus make technology more inclusive for everyone. We must also harness the capabilities of digital technologies to create strategies, such as teleworking, that promote a work-life balance. 
95 
Future milestones To effectively implement electronic administration in all processes over the period covered by the plan. To effectively implement a data governance model and the use of data science tools for support in management. To allocate around 5 of the annual budget to qualified staff, infrastructures and services in information and communication technology in order to achieve a degree of digital maturity in line with the size and prestige of the UGR (in 2021 this percentage was around 1.5).       To develop strategies for adopting technologies that are innovative, advanced or emerging, as artificial intelligence, cloud, blockchain, virtual/augmented/mixed reality, robotisation and the Internet of Things are today, during the period covered by the plan. UGR2031


98Plan estratégicoUGR 2031

99 Transformative projects V Centenary Horizon Project 
Project description Nearly 500 years have passed since the University of Granada opened its doors to knowledge. During his stay in the city and within the framework of the agreements adopted by the Congregation of the Royal Chapel, Emperor Charles V signed a Royal Warrant on 7 December 1526 establishing the General Studies in Granada. Subsequently, upon the emperor's request and by means of a bull issued on 14 July 1531, Pope Clement VII confirmed the foundation and development of the University of Granada. With almost five hundred years of history, our University must have a clear understanding of what it represents for society. Likewise, our institution must know and transmit its traditional values and the importance of its historical background in the advancement of scientific knowledge and socio-economic development. In short, the University of Granada must build its future without losing sight of its past, its collective identity and its cultural values. However, the purpose of this project is not only to remember the institution’s history and to make our unique tangible and intangible heritage known to the university community and the world in general. We also wish to use this journey to reflect on the role that the University plays today and will play in the future, both locally and globally. In addition, we want to convey the importance of deciding where we want to go and share this process with society throughout the decade. UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 100 
Through this process, citizens will learn about the University of Granada, its importance and the role it has played in the advancement of knowledge and of Granada society itself. In this way, the University will be able to prove its status as a citizen’s university, an institution indebted to the city and at the service of the citizens. Likewise, as we commemorate the V Centenary, it is vital that all structures and services see our strategic horizon of 2031 as an opportunity to embark on transformational projects at the level of faculties, schools, departments, units and services, committing the entire activity of the University to this objective. 
1011UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 102 Arqus Alliance 
Project description The European Universities Initiative is a project of the European Commission that seeks to establish transnational alliances aimed at becoming the universities of the future, to foster the European identity and its values, and to revolutionise the quality and competitiveness of European higher education. These alliances cover a wide geographical area across Europe and are based on a jointly planned long-term strategy that focuses on sustainability, excellence and European values. These partnerships offer student-centred curricula taught jointly on inter-university campuses, where students can design their own education pathways as well as undertake mobility periods at any level of study. A challenge-based learning approach is adopted in which students and teaching staff members, together with external partners, cooperate in interdisciplinary teams in order to address the great challenges of the 21st century. The Arqus Alliance comprises the universities of Wroclaw (Poland), Graz (Austria), Leipzig (Germany), Lyon (France), Miño (Portugal), Padua (Italy) and Vilnius (Lithuania), in addition to the UGR, which acts as coordinator. It was selected by the European Commission as one of the first 17 alliances approved in 2019. Currently, the Alliance receives funding from the Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 programmes, as well as from several Spanish and regional governments. In parallel to the implementation of its ambitious work plan, Arqus is intensively involved in a permanent policy dialogue with the European Commission, the national authorities of the Member States, quality assurance agencies and other university networks and associations for the development of the European Education Area, the European Research Area, and the European Higher Education Area through the European University Strategy. 
103 UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 104 UGR-DONES Project 
Project description Together with CIEMAT, the UGR is implementing in Granada the IFMIF-Dones Particle Accelerator project, which is currently considered an ERIC (European Research Infrastructure Consortium) and with a consortium already established for its implementation and execution. This project is part of the EU's ambitious programme to turn fusion as an energy source into a scientific and technological project with an international dimension. The objective of the UGR-Dones project is to create an innovation ecosystem of cutting-edge researchers acting alongside and in coordination with the particle accelerator project for the development of new materials and highly technological companies. Its ultimate goal is to provide solutions in the field of renewable energies, clean energy production technologies, health and environmental solutions. 
105 UGR2031

UGR2031

UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 108 UGR-AI Project 
Project description The project is linked to the resilience project that the UGR has presented, the objective of which is the creation of an "Andalusian Centre for Innovation and Digitalisation: Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Virtual Environments and 5G (CAID)". With a budget of €48.5 million, this project integrates all the research groups specialised in digital transformation from the UGR, as well as groups from the Universities of Jaén and Córdoba. This project already has some important milestones to build on: 1. Creation of the Centre of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence Research (AI Lab Granada), in collaboration with technology partners Indra, Google Cloud and Nvidia. 2.Creation of the Andalusian Digital Innovation Hub in ArtificialIntelligence and Applied Robotics, Air-Andalusia, which brings together the most important technological actors in the Andalusian sector: universities, companies, technology parks, technology clusters and research centres. 3.Petition for the creation of the National AI Centre in Granada and the National Regulatory Agency for Artificial Intelligence. 
109 UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 110 
111 UGR-Sostenibilidad Project Project description This project is connected to the resilience project presented by the UGR "Andalusian Innovation Green Hub on Artificial Intelligence & Geodesign for e-Biodiversity Services - AI2 Green BioHub" which, with a budget of €48 million, brings together the innovation actions in sustainability and ecological transition of groups at the University of Granada, University of Huelva and LifeWatch ERIC. This project builds on a previous important milestone, namely the UGR’s award of a LifeWatch ERIC project: "Thematic Center On Mountain Ecosystem & Remote Sensing, Deep Learning-AI E-Services University of Granada-Sierra Nevada (Smart EcoMountains)". UGR2031

113 Singular campuses 
In addition to the five campuses spread throughout the city of Granada, the University of Granada has the particularity of having two campuses in North Africa, located in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla. This peculiarity has an impact on the different functions performed by the University, the existing governance actions and the design of future strategies. The great majority of the proposals included in this Strategic Plan involve all the people and groups that make up the UGR, no matter what campus or territory they belong to. However, as a result of the strategic reflection process carried out, we are convinced of the need to design unique strategies for our campuses in Ceuta and Melilla, in line with the proposals of this Strategic Plan and with the strategic lines for the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. In particular, these strategies should focus on the following lines: 1.Advancing towards a quality training offer and a satisfactory educational experience for students from the Ceuta and Melilla campuses under equal conditions with the University's other campuses. 2.Focusing on the balance and stability of teaching and research staff(PDI), and helping develop the academic careers of young researchers on these campuses. 3.Fostering new emerging, multidisciplinary research lines connected tothe socio-economic environment of Ceuta and Melilla. 4.Promoting postgraduate training and encouraging the completion ofdoctoral theses at the campuses of Ceuta and Melilla (known as "singular campuses"). 5.Moving towards the professionalisation of management on thesecampuses. 6.Contributing to increasing the impact and projection of the UGR in thecities of Ceuta and Melilla, promoting the hosting of scientific, innovation, cultural and sporting events. UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 114 
115
UGR2031

UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 116 The UGR in figures (2020/2021)Structure Campuses: 5 (Granada), 2 (Ceuta and Melilla)UGR faculties and schools: 30 Research institutes: 17 Departments: 124 Academic programmes on offer Undergraduate programmes: 112  Master's degree programmes: 154  Doctoral programmes: 28  UGR-specific degrees: 145 MOOC courses: 11 Registered students Top 5 in the Spanish University SystemTotal: 91,463 Undergraduate degree students: 46,003 Master's degree students: 6,215 Doctoral degree students: 3,809 UGR-specific degrees: 1,134 MOOC courses: 34,302 % of international undergraduate students: 6.03% % of international master's and doctoral degree students: 14.64% Graduates Undergraduate degree students: 6,950 Master's degree programmes: 3,908 Doctoral degree students: 396 Staff Total number of teaching and research staff (PDI): 3,751 PDI with civil service status: 2,198 PDI without civil service status: 1,553 Total number of administrative and support staff (PAS): 2,729 PAS with civil service status: 2,333 PAS on contract and PAS employed on a temporary basis: 396 
117 
Research Publications (WoS): 4,193 Top 10% (WoS) publications: 10.59% Category Normalized Citation Impact: 1.20  Publications with international collaborators: 52.64%  Spanish National Plan projects: 118 EU projects: 36 Research chairs: 28 "María de Maeztu" Units of Excellence: 1 Research Units of Excellence: 20 FPU predoctoral contracts: 87 FPI predoctoral contracts: 24 Juan de la Cierva contracts: 23 Ramón y Cajal contracts: 9 Full funding of European research projects in 2020: €7,022,799.98 Knowledge transfer Patent requests: 22 R&D contracts (art. 83): 629 Amount in R&D contracts: €9,183,940 Spin-offs created: 2 Collaborative R&D projects obtained through public calls for proposals: 22 Amount obtained for collaborative R&D projects through public calls for proposals: €2,654,000 Total funding raised via transfer: €12,011,940 Economic data (2020)  Settled budget: €436,624,755.25  Staff costs: €324,046,261.75  Real investments: €60,460,689.11 Income from formal education: €13,019,682.04 Income from structural operational funding: €178,773,039.88 Income from capital transfers: €165,964,795.88 Impact of the UGR on the income of the province: €1,036.6 million (6.12%) Impact of the UGR on employment in the province: 25,571 jobs (7.77%) International rankings Shanghai Ranking (ARWU): 201-300 World; 1st Andalusia; 2nd Spain Center for World University Rankings (CWUR): 326 World; 1st Andalusia; 6th Spain National Taiwan University Ranking (NTU): 303 World; 1st Andalusia; 6th Spain CWTS Leiden Ranking: 284 World; 1st Andalusia; 6th Spain University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP): 272 World; 1st Andalusia; 6th Spain UGR2031
UGR 2031 Strategic Plan 118 Strategic Plan Steering Committee President Pilar Aranda Ramírez Rector of the University of Granada Representation of the University Community Aurora Bueno Cavanillas Professor and Head of the Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health Antonio Jesús Campos Muñoz Professor, Department of Histology Andrés Catena Martínez Professor, Department of Experimental Psychology Susana Corzo Fernández Profesora Titular de Universidad (Senior Lecturer), Department of Political Science and Administration Ana Isabel del Moral García Professor, Department of Microbiology Manuel Díaz Carrillo Professor, Department of Mathematical Analysis Joaquín Fernández Valdivia Professor, Department of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence María Dolores Ferre Cano Professor, Department of Semitic Studies María José Gálvez Ruiz Professor, Department of Applied Physics Emilia Guadix Escobar Professor (Department of Chemical Engineering) and Director for UGR-specific Degrees Miguel Ángel Guardia López Director of the Research Projects Office Francisco Herrera Triguero Professor, Department of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Julián Juberías Olmo Former Coordinator of the General Student Council (DGE) Juan López Martínez Professor, Department of Financial and Tax Law Teodoro Luque Martínez Professor, Department of Marketing and Market Research Juan Antonio Marmolejo Martín Profesor Contratado Doctor (permanent Lecturer), Department of Statistics and Operational Research (Melilla Campus) Germán Martínez Montes Professor and Head of the Department of Building Engineering and Engineering Projects José Antonio Pérez Tapias Professor, Department of Philosophy II Fernando Jesús Trujillo Sáez Profesor Titular de Universidad (Senior Lecturer), Department of Didactics of Language and Literature (Ceuta Campus) Alicia Vera Suanes Administrator of the Faculty of Arts Javier Villoria Prieto Profesor Titular de Universidad (Senior Lecturer) and Dean of the Faculty of Education Vice-Rectorate for Institutional Policy and Planning Pedro Mercado Pacheco Vice-Rectorate for Institutional Policy and Planning Salvador del Barrio García Director for Strategic Planning External Representation Ana Agudo Martínez Director of the Public Andalusian Foundation of the Health Sciences Technology Park (PTS) Ángeles Orantes Zurita Director of Industrias Cárnicas Zurita Fiona Hunter Former president of the European Association for International Education and member of the UGR’s Advisory Council for Internationalization Gregorio Jiménez López Former President of the Social Council of the University of Granada Elisa Pérez Vera Magistrate of the Constitutional Court and former Rector of the National Distance Education University (UNED) 
119 Coordination of the working groups People, identity and participation Rafael Cano Guervós Profesor Titular de Universidad (Senior Lecturer), Department of Quantitive Methods for Economics and Business Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Business Governance, management and funding Miguel Ángel Guardia López Director of the Research Projects Office Society, culture and social projection Margarita Sánchez Romero Professor, Department of Prehistory and Archaeology Vice-Rector for Equality, Inclusion and Sustainability Teaching and learning María Inmaculada Ramos Tapia  Profesora Titular de Universidad (Senior Lecturer), Department of Criminal Law Research, innovation and transfer Sergio Navas Concha Professor, Department of Theoretical Physics and Cosmology Vice-Dean of the Faculty of Science (Scientific Research and Dissemination) Internationalization María Teresa Bajo Molina Professor, Department of Experimental Psychology Digital transformation Pedro García Teodoro Professor, Department of Signal Theory, Telematics and Communications Director of the School of Computer and Telecommunication Engineering Economic model and environmental transformation Gregorio Jiménez López Former President of the Social Council of the University of Granada UGR2031
120Plan estratégicoUGR 2031

121
UGR2031

122Plan estratégicoUGR 2031

123
UGR2031

124Plan estratégicoUGR 2031

125
UGR2031

9LFe5eFtoUDte IoU ,nVtLtXtLonDl 3olLF\ Dnd 3lDnnLnJ   Pedro Mercado Pacheco – Salvador del Barrio garcía –C e l i a garcía Fernández – José Claudio gil reyes – Ana Valderrama Muñoz – Míriam Lourdes Martínez garrido6tUDteJLF 3lDn 6teeULnJ &ommLttee  3UeVLdent – Pilar Aranda ramírez  9LFe5eFtoUDte IoU ,nVtLtXtLonDl3olLF\ Dnd 3lDnnLnJ– Pedro Mercado Pacheco – Salvador del Barrio garcía  5epUeVentDtLon oI tKe 8nLveUVLt\&ommXnLt\ – Aurora Bueno Cavanillas – Antonio Jesús Campos Muñoz – Andrés Catena Martínez – Susana Cor-zo Fernández – Ana Isabel del Moral garcía – Manuel Díaz Carrillo – Joaquín Fernández Valdivia – Mª Dolores Ferre Cano – Mª José gálvez ruíz – Emilia guadix Escobar – Miguel Ángel guardia López – Francisco Herrera Triguero –Julián Juberías Olmo – Juan López Martínez – Teodoro Luque Martínez – Juan Antonio Marmolejo Martín – germán Martínez Montes – José Antonio Pérez Tapias – Fernando Jesús Trujillo Sáez – Alicia Vera Suanes – Javier VilloriaPrieto   ([teUnDl 5epUeVentDtLon – Ana Agudo Martínez – Á n g e l e s Orantes-Zurita López – Fiona Hunter – gregorio Jiménez López – Elisa Pérez Vera  &ooUdLnDtLon oI tKe ZoUNLnJ JUoXpV  rafa Cano guervós (3eopleLdentLt\ Dnd pDUtLFLpDtLon) – Inmaculada ramos Tapia (7eDFKLnJ Dnd leDUnLnJ – Sergio Navas Concha (5eVeDUFKLnnovDtLon Dnd tUDnVIeU) – gregorio Jiménez López  ((FonomLF model Dnd envLUonmentDl tUDnVIoUmDtLon) – MiguelÁngel guardia López (*oveUnDnFe mDnDJement Dnd IXndLnJ) – Margarita Sánchez romero (6oFLet\ FXltXUe DndVoFLDl pUoMeFtLon – Teresa B a j o Molina (,nteUnDtLonDlL]DtLon – Pedro garcía Teodoro ('LJLtDl tUDnVIoUmDtLon)*oveUnLnJ 7eDm  Pilar Aranda ramírez – María Asunción Torres López – M.ª del Mar Holgado Molina – Pedro Mercado Pacheco – Dorothy Kelly – Enrique Herrera Viedma – Juan Manuel Martín garcía – Fernando CornetSánchez del Águila – José Antonio Naranjo rodríguez – Victor Jesús Medina Flórez – Margarita Sánchez romero –María Begoña del Pino Prieto – Jesús Banqueri Ozáez – Teresa Pozo Llorente – Jesús Conde Antequera – SolOstos rey – José Ángel Ibáñez Zapata – Elena Morales Torres  3DUtLFLpDtoU\ pUoFeVV  Betty Agnani – raquelAguado López – José Manuel Aguayo Moral – Lucas Alados Arboledas – Miguel Alaminos Mingorance – Montse-rrat Alcaina Ortiz – Domingo Alcaraz Segura – Dunia Almansouri umpierrez – Sara Alonso Quirante – Alejandro Amat Hernández – Juan Alberto Aragón Correa – Henry Aray Casanova – rosario Arcas Paco – Elena ArigitaMaza – David Ariza Pérez – Wenceslao Arroyo Machado – M.ª Asunción Arrufat Pérez de la Zafra – Juan JoséÁvila Marfil – José Miguel Azañón Hernández – Vicente Ballesteros Alarcón – Jesús Banqueri Ozáez – EduardoBattaner López – María Luisa Bellido gant – Alicia Benarroch Benarroch – Francisco Luis Benítez Martínez –Juan Luis Benítez Muñoz – raúl Berdonés Montoya – María Isabel Berenguer Maldonado – Lilian Bermejo Luque–María Bermúdez Martínez – Ignacio Blanco Medina – Fernando Bolívar galiano – Francisco Buendía Fernández –Francisco Caballero rodríguez – David Cabello Manrique – Juan Carlos Cabello Piñar – Juan Calatrava Escobar –Zoraida Callejas Carrión – Coral Calvo Maturana – José Antonio Camacho Ballesta – Francisco Cano Entre-na – Santiago Carbó Valverde – Antonio Caro Valero – Pilar Carrasco Carrasco – Emilio Carreras Torres – MartaCastaño Casco – Manuel Castilla Cubillas – Juan Chacón Almeda – Jesús Chamorro Martínez – Antonio JavierChica Núñez – Beatriz Clares Naveros – Antonio Collados Alcaide – Francisco Contreras Cortés – Oscar Cordón garcía – Joaquín Andrés Cordovilla Márquez – Susana Corzo Fernández – Francisco Cuesta rico – Antonio deDios Cubero – Olvido de la rosa Baena – Juan Jesús de la Torre Bayo – Elena de Miguel Conde – Javier de Teresa galván – Consuelo del Moral Ávila – rafael Delgado Calvo-Flores – María Isabel Deu Olmo – rocío Díaz Bravo–Juan José Díaz Mochón – Alberto Carlos Donaire Ávila – Paola Dos Santos guntiñas – Adela Durán guzmán –Francisco Javier Durán ruiz – Vito Episcopo Solís – David Epstein – germaine Escames rosa – raquel EscobarMolina – José ramón España Sánchez – Francisca Expósito Jiménez – Waldo Fajardo Contreras – Félix Fernán-dez Castaño – Valeria Fernández Muñoz – José Ángel Fernández Núñez – Emilia Fernández Ondoño – AntonioFernández Porcel – Lourdes Fernández Vega – María del Mar Fuentes Fuentes – raquel Fuentes garcía – Claudia Fuentes rueda – Fernando galán Palomares – Ana gallego Cuiñas – Antolino gallego Molina – Francisco Javier 7Ke 8nLveUVLt\ oI *UDnDdD ZoXld lLNe to tKDnN Dll tKoVe ZKo KDve FontULEXted to tKe 2031 6tUDteJLF 3lDn eVpeFLDll\:
gallego roca – Francisco gámiz Pérez – Vanesa gámiz Sánchez – rosa garcía Avilés – Ana garcía Campaña – Antonio garcía Casco – Celia garcía Fernández – M.ª Ángeles garcía gil – Antonio garcía guzmán – gisellegarcía Hípola – Salvador garcía López – Ana garcía López – Ana Isabel garcía López – Pedro Jesús garcía Mo-reno – Jesús garcía Puertas – Miguel Ángel garcía rubio – Francisco Javier garcía ruiz – José Antonio garcíaSánchez – Laura garcía-Lorca de los ríos – José Claudio gil reyes – roberto gómez Amate  – Manuel gómezguzmán – Marian gómez Letrán – Jesús gonzález López – María José gonzález López – Josué gonzález ruiz– Ana gregorio Cano – Carmen gregorio gil – Yolanda guasch Marí – Enrique guillén López – Blanca gutiérrezMartínez – José gutiérrez Pérez – Jesús Henares de la Torre – Lucia Herrera Torres – Enrique Herrera Viedma– José Herrero rubí – Mirian Hervás Torres – Encarnación Hidalgo Tenorio – Pilar Ibarrondo Dávila – FranciscoManuel Illeras garcía – Soledad Jacobe Martínez – Antonio Jara Andreu – Luis Miguel Jiménez del Barco Jaldo– Catalina Jiménez Hurtado – José Juan Jiménez Moleón – Miguel Jiménez Puertas – Antonio León Serrano –Francisco Liébana Cabanillas – Antonio Liñán gonzález – Carmen Lizárraga Mollinedo – Esther López Cárdenas – Masao Javier López Sako – Nobuo Ignacio López Sako – Juan López-Belmonte Encina – Miguel López-guada-lupe Muñoz – rafael Jesús López-guzmán guzmán – María López-Jurado romero de la Cruz – Oswaldo Lorenzo Quiles – Juan Lupiáñez Castillo – germán Luzón gonzález – gabriel Maciá Fernández – ruth Maldonado Díaz– Patricia Maldonado Pérez – Juan Antonio Marmolejo Martín – Juan Carlos Maroto Martos – M.ª rosa MárquezSánchez – Inma Marrero rocha – Julián Martín Arjona – María José Martín Bautista – María Virtudes MartínFernández – Adelaida Martín Martín – ricardo Martin Morales – Antonio Martínez gonzález – Demetrio Martí-nez Juguera – Juan Martos Moya – Juan Mata Anaya – Davide Melita – Alfredo Menéndez Navarro – FranciscoMesa Manzano – Jorge Min Hui Zhou – Antonio Mingorance gutiérrez – Evaristo Molero Mesa – Isabel MolinaOlea – Leonor Moral Soriano – gracia María Morales Ortiz – Salvador Morales ruano – Enrique Moratalla Mo-lina – roberto Morcillo Jiménez – M. Perla Moreno Arroyo – Miguel Ángel Motos guirao – Juan Antonio MuñozOrellana – Antonio Muñoz ropa – Antonio Muñoz Vinuesa – Asensio Navarro Ortega – M.ª Angustias Navarroruiz – gabriela Ochoa Covarrubias – Juan ramón Olmos Vico – Javier Ordóñez garcía – Teresa Ortega López – Nieves Ortega Pérez – Miguel Ortega Sánchez – María del Mar Ortiz Camacho – Jesús Palenzuela Bautista – Er-nesto Páramo Sureda – Miguel Pasquau Liaño – Irene Pedreira romero – José María Peinado Herreros – Melesio Peña Almazán – rafael Peregrín Espinosa – Ana Peregrín gonzález – gracia Peregrín rubio – María José PérezContreras – Manuel Pérez Mendoza – María Virtudes Pérez ropero – José Antonio Pérez Tapias – Juan JoséPérez uceta – Augusto Joaquín Piqueras garcía – Miguel Prados Abad – Esther Puertas garcía – Enrique E. raya Lozano – Pedro José real Luna – Elisa María recio Malagón – Juan Carlos reina Fernández – Pilar requenaMéndez – Nicolás robinson garcía – Antonio robles Lizcano – Javier rodríguez Alcázar – María José rodríguez Fórtiz – Sonia M. rodríguez ruano – gerardo rodríguez Salas – Esteban romero Frías – Joaquín romero ruiz –Nuria romo Avilés – Eduardo ros Vidal – M.ª del Carmen rubio gámez – Pedro rubio Mercado – Carmen rubioromero – Joaquín rubio Torres – Carlos ruiz Cosano – Pedro ruiz garcía – Antonio ruiz Moya – Diego Pabloruiz Padillo – M.ª Carmen ruiz ruiz – Jonatan ruiz ruiz – María ruz Cámara – Antonio Salmerón Matilla – Carlos Sampedro Matarín – rosario M.ª Sánchez Martín – Francisco José Sánchez Montalbán – José Sánchez Montes– Manuel Sánchez Polo – Juan Manuel Santiago Zaragoza – Artur Schmitt – Francisco Serrano Bernardo – Pa-qui Serrano Chica – César Solano galvis – Simón José Suárez Cuadros – Eva Talavera rodríguez – Paz TorneroLorenzo – Daniel Torres Salinas – Magdalena Trillo Domínguez – Antonio Trinidad requena – Fernando TrujilloSáez – Beñat urrutikoetxea Arrieta – José Vallejo Prieto – Javier Valls Prieto – Ana Belén Valverde Cano – Javier Valverde Pozo – José Vega Hidalgo – M.ª del Mar Venegas Medina – José Antonio Verdejo Cobos – InmaculadaYuste Martínez – Juan Ignacio Zafra Becerra – Montserrat Zamorano ToroUGR2031Strategic  Plan
Cuesta del Hospicio, s/n. 18071. Granada Tel. +34 958 24 87 23 planifica@ugr.es institucional.ugr.ess
 
 
