
2 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 
INNOVATIVE WORLD CLASSOUR PRIORITIES :
TEACHING, LEARNING & RESEARCHOUR STUDENTS,
4 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 5
President’s Message 
Chancellor’s Foreword
UOS at a Glance  
Vision  
Mission 
Strategic Goals 
Core Values 
Executive Summary
Special Projects & Initiatives 
Balance Scorecard Strategy Map
Building the Strategy
Goal 1   
Goal 2
Goal 3 
Goal 4 
Goal 5 
Goal 6 
Strategy RoadmapStudent Experience 
People 
Innovation 
Research 
Industry and Community 
Teaching and Learning 06
07
08
10
10
11
11
12
17
18
22
24
28
34
42
46
50
54
Contents
Our SPIRIT defines
what we are and what we will become
6 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 7
The University of Sharjah administration 
stand out for their commitment to 
achieving the University’s vision and 
mission of being a world-class teaching, 
learning and research institution. It aims 
to prepare our youth with the necessary 
integrated knowledge and skills to build a 
robust and cohesive society based upon 
the values of equality, justice and 
sustainable development; principles that 
are inherent to our country’s cultural, 
social and national heritage. Accordingly, 
the University of Sharjah focuses on 
helping students overcome academic and 
social obstacles that might prevent them 
from realizing their success and the 
success sought by the University in 
strengthening the capabilities of youth 
– now and into the future. 
 
In 1997, the University of Sharjah 
embarked upon the ambitious mission of 
providing a unique, inspirational, creative 
and supportive environment for higher 
education. Today, we are proudly the 
UAE’s largest university with over 15,300 
students enrolled. The network of global 
partnerships the University has steadily 
established and fostered over the years 
have led to a unique and inspiring 
learning environment for cutting-edge 
innovation, knowledge acquisition, and 
the sharpening of minds. From the training of government sector 
employees, to supporting leadership 
qualification programs, the University 
continues to affirm its position as a 
world-class provider of higher education, 
introducing new specializations and best 
practices across its academic 
departments. 
 
As the University of Sharjah forges on 
into an increasingly global era, it strives 
for continual progress and development, 
which requires visionary planning, 
determination and will. The University 
seeks to serve the current and future 
needs of our community and beyond by 
offering innovative academic and 
professional programs designed for 
today’s diverse and dynamic modern 
world. 
 
As such, the University of Sharjah 
2019-2024 Strategy  comes at a defining 
period in the life of the University. It sets 
forth the next chapter in its continued 
growth and development. It is designed 
to build upon past achievements and 
take the University of Sharjah to an even 
higher level of excellence as we strive to 
build a world-class institution that is 
recognised on a global scale.
Wishing you all success,
Sultan Bin Mohammed Al Qasimi,
Ruler of Sharjah and President of the University of SharjahPresident’s 
Message
His Highness Sheikh 
Dr. Sultan Bin Mohammad 
Al Qasimi  
Member of the Supreme Council, 
Ruler of Sharjah and President of
the University of Sharjah  
We are all witness to the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution. This new 
environment is characterized by a 
technological fusion integrating physical, 
digital, and biological resources. This is 
evident by emerging technology in a 
variety of fields. As a result, new highly 
transformed industries and professions 
are on the rise. Given the accessibility of 
open educational resources and 
company-driven educational 
opportunities, the highly directed, 
narrow-focused, institutionalized 
learning, common in higher education is 
outdated. 
A growing range of opportunities and 
challenges impact higher education. New 
technological advances, rising costs, 
global competition for quality students 
and faculty, global educational shifts in 
learning models and expansive 
informational and educational access, are 
evident. As such a compelling need for 
the transformation of higher education 
has arisen. 
Students exhibit new and changing 
needs, attitudes, preferences and 
expectations. These traits support the 
need for a fresh, new and innovative 
approach for the University of Sharjah. 
Our strategic approach influences our 
direction and how we emerge as a global 
research and educational institution. To 
guide this journey, we rely on our 
collective purpose to nurture and build 
upon the hopes and dreams of our 
students, educate minds, drive progress 
and impact life in the UAE and beyond.The strategic plan has been developed 
within the context of future educational 
models, in higher education, emergent 
challenges, responsible stewardship of 
resources, commitment to the 
development of the community and our 
dedication to expanding the excellence of 
the University. New, open and flexible 
educational models for higher education 
are relevant and can match the 
challenges of today.
Working with a renewed commitment to 
our strategic goals, we will transform the 
University of Sharjah into a beacon of 
hopes and dreams, serving as a source of 
advanced knowledge and contributing to 
the forward development of the 
community. Through a more flexible 
educational model that can be used to 
meet the demands of the dynamically 
changing jobs of the future, the learning 
approach will incorporate various modes 
of learning (from formal learning 
environments to informal, workplace, 
blended or remote learning models) to 
meet job requirements, while addressing 
the work-life balance. 
It is our responsibility as educators, to 
recognize and accept the obligation to 
change ourselves in order to address new 
challenges and support future 
development. Guided by the vision, 
wisdom and support of His Highness, 
Ruler of Sharjah, the University’s mission 
and the shared commitment of our 
faculty, staff and students, a new level of 
excellence will be reached.Chancellor’s 
Foreword
Professor 
Hamid M. K. Al Naimiy
Chancellor of the University of  
Sharjah
8 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 9
University of Sharjah at a Glance
The University of Sharjah is the largest university in the UAE. It is currently ranked first among the top four universities in 
the UAE (QS and TIME Ranking) and first according to the Green Metric Ranking. In total, 15,300 students are enrolled, 
including 1,700 postgraduate students from approximately 100 different countries. By the year 2023/2024, there is 
expected to be an estimated 75 graduate programs, which will support the goals for attaining international accreditation. 
In 2018, the reported total research income for three years was 43 million AED. The University is supported by a host of 
outstanding well-known researchers and faculty in a variety of disciplines and maintains a robust infrastructure to support 
research and development with state-of-the-art core research platforms, which have supported a significant number of 
patents/products and quality research output. The University maintains global partnerships with elite educational centers 
and industries to support further research and development.  The University of Sharjah 2019 - 2024 Strategy represents a significant five year transformational vision to focus, enhance 
and enrich student services, educational experiences and facilities. During this transformational period, the University will 
continue to deliver reputable and comprehensive teaching, learning and research across each of its academic programs 
that focus on bringing quality services to the community and contributing to the overall well-being of society. The driving 
force of our future is building on the success of our past.
Student/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of StudentsStudent/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of StudentsStudent/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of Students23.3/1 19.4/1 18/1
30 250 490
676 4,840 8,697
1997 1997-2004 2004- 2009Establishment of  
University of Sharjah Healthcare Campus
Khorfakan & Kelba Branches
Student/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of StudentsStudent/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of StudentsStudent/Faculty Ratio 
No. of Faculty
No. of Students25/1 23.2/1 19/1
501 660 960
12,444 15,301 17,000 (14k + 3k)
2009-2014 2014-2019 2019-2024Expanding all Programs
College of SciencesResearch Institutes
Graduate programs
Centers of Excellence
SCASS
Sh. Islamic Centre for Economy & 
Finance study
Handicap Center
CEC & CC
SIFHAMS
Academic Leadership Institute
Language Institute 
Al-Thed BranchSpecial Projects & Initiatives
Khorfakan University
Emirati Scientists, Researchers  & 
Educators.
Professional and Academic 
Development for the Government 
Sharjah Employee.
Computing & Informatics College
Sharjah OASES for S,T & I.
Sharjah Academy for ASST
Sharjah R Institute for TPM 50 
MSc + 25 PhD
Seeking for Intern Accreditation
Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Strategic PlanFirst Second ThirdTimeline
10 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 11
The University of Sharjah is committed to providing a world-class 
educational experience that prepares lifelong learners and leaders with 
integrated knowledge and skills. We are passionate about building a 
collaborative and sustainable environment that cultivates twenty-first 
century skills and fosters pioneering research and scholarship. We seek 
to serve the current and future needs of our local community and beyond 
by offering innovative academic and professional programs.MissionVisionThe University of Sharjah is an innovative world-
class teaching, learning and research institution 
providing a distinctive, inspirational, creative and 
supportive environment.Core Values
Integrity and Ethics:  Ethical standards at the University of Sharjah are founded on ethical and civic responsibility in accordance with progressive 
Arab and Islamic ideals. 
Dedication: Dedication to providing students with knowledge and support, so they are fully prepared to be the leaders of the future. 
Inclusiveness: We welcome and value each other and embrace the diversity of ideas and people.  
Excellence with limitless Drive: For quality enhancement and continuance improvement. 
Accountability and Transparency: We pride ourselves on our responsibility, and transparency in our actions, providing a fair and positive 
work environment.
Innovation and Creativity: We work without bounds to improve lives through creativity and innovation in the pursuit of academic excellence. The University of Sharjah is united by six core values that underpin our daily actions as students, staff, faculty, 
administrators and alumni. They are as follows: 
Strategic GoalWhat drives the University of Sharjah is its SPIRIT
The strategic objectives provide the foundational context to each of the strategic goals, helping to understand what will drive excellence at the 
University and ensure the University of Sharjah 2019 – 2024 Strategy is realized. The strategic goals are the building blocks of change based on the Vision and Mission of the University of Sharjah. These goals capture the essence 
of the Vision through understanding the elemental drivers of the University. Strategic Goals
12 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 13
Summary
ExecutiveTo improve the student learning experience the University of Sharjah has developed an innovative 
and focused plan to enhance and enrich student services and facilities. As part of this strategic 
focus, the University aims to ensure that all new and existing services support a quality centered 
learning experience. To meet student residential and social needs, to provide effective student 
support services and to promote the students’ personal development and ultimately their 
employability, the University has identified the following priority objectives:
Make the University of Sharjah campus more welcoming and supportive for all, focusing on the wellbeing of our students.
Enhance programs, services and facilities for people with disabilities.
Enhance student advisory and support for academic achievement.
Increase the employability of University of Sharjah students, while improving internship and cooperative opportunities.
Enhance facilities and services at our branches.
Recruit, develop, retain talented faculty and professional staff. 
Empower faculty and professional staff through professional development.
Develop the Emiratization program. 
Enhance employee wellbeing, safety and healthcare.
Develop an environment of service excellence.
Unify and integrate IT systems to serve education, research and operation activities.
Establish a financially sustainable institution with diverse sources of income.
Improve the University of Sharjah branding and internationalization.
Develop an environmentally sustainable campus.Efficiently manage resources to establish a sustainable financial base and examine the distribution of resources across programs.Build an agile governance and operating model with the aim of establishing a robust and efficient 
operations platform on which to grow.As an institution of higher education, we are committed to providing a collaborative, innovative 
and sustainable learning environment. As the curators of this educational environment, we strive 
to cultivate the twenty-first century skills needed to meet current and changing demands for 
employability and cultural advancement. We will serve our local and global communities through 
effective strategic partnerships and efficient governance, fully enabling academic and professional 
programs, by implementing the following objectives:At the University of Sharjah, we are passionate about our people and fostering a culture of 
collaboration, happiness, and productivity. To support the development of this type of organizational 
culture, we strive to achieve several human resource priorities:S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
I1
I2
I3
I4
I5
I6
14 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 15
The University of Sharjah is committed to providing a world-
class educational experience that prepares lifelong learners 
and leaders with integrated knowledge and skills.Given the need for the transformation of higher education to address the range of opportunities 
and challenges, the University of Sharjah is committed to providing a collaborative, innovative and 
sustainable learning environment that cultivates twenty-first century skills amongst its students. 
These challenges support the need for a new and innovative approach. Our objectives will serve 
our local and global communities’ current and future needs, by offering innovative academic and 
professional programs:The University of Sharjah acknowledges the critical role of scientific research towards reputation, 
development and advancement. Our commitment to continued research efforts serves to address 
the emerging challenges of our times. As an institution of advanced learning, we remain focused 
on providing innovative world-class teaching, learning and research environments to support new 
insights and greater understanding of critical issues. With a developing interest and focus on 
technology transfer, we support an increased effort and commitment to enhancing quality scientific 
research and discovery, through the following priority objectives:
Support research management and dissemination. 
Support and reward researchers, while engaging students.
Establish sustainable dynamic priority research areas in service of the community.
Expand and equip state-of the-art research facilities. R1
R2
R3
R4
Establish a philanthropy and endowment program.
Increase alumni involvement in fundraising and networking. 
Provide professional development, continuing education and consultancy services for industries, the community and society.IC1
IC2
IC3
IC4Communicate more effectively with society to increase local, regional and international relations in a bid to foster research 
and innovation through greater collaboration.With the aim to develop and sharpen minds, higher education supports human advancement in 
industry and within the community. This contribution is further enhanced through the University 
of Sharjah’s strong partnerships and support for innovation. The University acknowledges its role 
in supporting community development and service toward raising awareness and resolving issues 
of concern in the community. We are committed to providing a distinctive and supportive campus 
and building innovative strategic partnerships, which directly contribute to the wellbeing of our 
community and society on both a local and global scale, as demonstrated by the objectives listed 
below:
Enhance our teaching and learning environment by incorporating leading edge technology. 
Develop and support innovative teaching methodologies and course design and delivery.
Review, develop and accredit academic programs to meet the 21st century job market.
Strengthen the pedagogical knowledge and skills of faculty members.T1
T2
T3
T4
16 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 17
The University of Sharjah seeks to serve the current and future 
needs of our community and beyond by offering innovative 
academic and professional programs designed for today’s 
diverse and dynamic modern world.
His Highness Sheikh Dr. Sultan Bin Mohammad Al Qasimi,
Member of the Supreme Council, Ruler of Sharjah and President of the University of SharjahSpecial Projects 
and InitiativesKhorfakkan 
University
As a strategic priority, the 
University of Sharjah will prioritize 
the development of Khorfakkan 
University into a self-governing 
and self-supporting institution, 
which will provide valuable 
educational resources and 
experiences to the Khorfakkan 
community.
Professional 
Development for 
Government of 
Sharjah Employees 
The strategic plan for training 
Government of Sharjah 
employees over a five-year period 
includes training 5,275 employees 
and conducting 150 professional 
diploma programs. Utilizing the 
University of Sharjah’s 
educational resources to enhance 
learning and professional 
development amongst 
government employees will foster 
a greater sense of alliance and 
shared goals between the 
University and the community at 
large.
Emirati Scientists, 
Researchers and 
Educators
Vital to our efforts will be the 
focus on nurturing and 
developing a cohort of talented 
Emirati scientists, researchers and 
educators to lead the University 
of Sharjah in the upcoming years.Sharjah Academy 
for Astronomy, 
Space Sciences 
and Technology
Sharjah Oasis in 
Research, 
Technology and 
InnovationThe academy will establish itself 
as a premier research and 
educational institution 
specializing in astronomy, space 
science and technology. Providing 
valuable resources for the UAE, 
and beyond. The academy will 
become the primary source of 
reference for astronomers and 
scientists globally.
Sharjah Oasis Technology and 
Innovation (SOTI), a free zone 
authority, will operate under the 
University of Sharjah. This critical 
project will revolutionize the 
environment of innovation, 
creativity and scientific pursuits 
within the Emirate.  The goal of 
SOTI is to create a generation of 
Emirati researchers, who will 
lead the nation’s development in 
several fields including science, 
technology and artificial 
intelligence.International Center 
for Theoretical 
Physics (ICTP) 
The Regional Center for Physics, 
Mathematics, and Computerization 
will be established as a branch of 
ICTP and will be based at the 
University of Sharjah. It will be a 
research center for physics and 
mathematics, working within the 
framework of the Cooperation 
Agreement between the Italian 
Government, the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO), and the 
Atomic Energy Commission.
College of 
Computing and 
Informatics
The College of Computing and 
Informatics will move forward in 
the direction of modern trends in 
computing and technological 
innovations. The achievement of 
scientific and academic goals 
through the integration of 
educational programs will be its 
primary focus. The college will 
bridge the gap between academic 
progress and practical applications, 
through exploring data analytics, 
big data, blockchain and artificial 
intelligence. In doing so it will 
enhance the experience of 
students by employing modern 
computing to solve theoretical and 
practical problems.
18 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 19
University of Sharjah 2019-2024 
Balance Scorecard Strategy Map
The Balance Scorecard Strategy Map represents a visual representation of the relationships 
between the 2019 – 2024 strategic objectives.The University of Sharjah is committed to providing a world-class educational experience that 
prepares lifelong learners and leaders with integrated knowledge and skills. We are passionate 
about building a collaborative and sustainable environment that cultivates twenty-first century 
skills, and fosters pioneering, research and scholarship. We seek to serve the current and future 
needs of our local community and beyond by offering innovative academic and professional 
programs.Student & Industry
PerspectiveFinancial
PerspectiveProcess
PerspectiveLearning &
Growth PerspectiveMake UoS campus 
more welcoming 
& supporting for all, 
focusing students 
wellbeingEnhance facilities, 
and services at our 
branchesEstablish Sustainable 
Dynamic Priority 
Research Areas in 
Service of the 
CommunityIncrease the 
employability of UoS 
students & improve 
internship & cooperative 
opportunitiesCommunicate & 
collaborate more 
effectively with societyReview, develop & 
accredit academic 
program to meet
the 21st century 
job marketEnhance programs, 
services and facilities 
for people of 
determination 
Provide Professional 
Development & consultancy 
opportunities for industry, 
community & 
societyImprove the 
University branding and 
internationalizationEstablish 
philanthropy & 
endowment Develop an 
environment of service 
excellenceEfﬁciently manage 
University of Sharjah 
resources to estalish a 
sustainable 
ﬁnancial baseIncrease alumni 
involvement in 
fundraising & 
networking Establish a 
ﬁnancially sustainable 
institution with diverse 
sources of income.
Build an agile 
governance &
 operating modelEnhance our teaching & 
learning environment  
by incorporating 
leading edge 
technology Enhance student 
advisory & support for 
academic 
achievement Recruit, develop, retain 
talented faculty & 
professional staff Enhance employee 
wellbeing, safety, & 
healthcareSupport & reward 
researchers, while 
engaging students
Expand and equip 
state-of the-art 
research facilities Unify & integrate
 IT systems to serve 
education, research 
& operation 
activitiesDevelop an 
environmentally 
sustainable campusSupport research 
management & 
dissemination Empowering faculty & 
professional staff through 
professional developmentDevelop & support 
innovative teaching 
methodologies  & course 
design & 
deliveryStrengthen the 
pedagogical knowledge & 
skills of faculty 
members
Develop the 
Emiratization program Supporting our students and our community Employability of our students
Improving our effectiveness
Embracing New TechnologyValuing and developing all our staffFinancial sustainabilityS2 S1 S5 R3 S4 IC1 T3
P5 IC4 I5 IC2 S2 IC3 I3
I1 T1 S3 T4 P1 P4 R2
R4 I2 I6 R1 P2 T2 P3
20 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 21
The Drive For Our Future 
Is Building On The 
Success Of Our Past
22 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 23
StrategyThe leadership of the 
University of Sharjah reaffirms 
the continued development 
and progress of the University, 
with a focus on the need to 
support the next generation 
towards building a strong 
community. A community 
based on the principles and 
values of equality, justice, 
fraternity, tolerance, 
happiness, participatory and 
sustainable development 
inherent in the UAE. Working 
towards this development and 
progress requires 
perseverance, patience and 
diligence. 
Building the Our strategy is bold and challenging and represents a long-term perspective. The transformational change, and 
implementation of the individual initiatives, which will support change, will not happen all at once. The University will 
make improvements at different stages in a number of areas of priority, with an aim to reach new levels of excellence. 
The Strategy was developed collaboratively with a view to engage the entire University of Sharjah community. As such 
the approach to the development of this strategy was distinctive in a number of  ways: 
A comprehensive environmental assessment was completed to evaluate the existing strategy and identify future 
opportunities and challenges. The results of the assessment produced seven strategic focus themes. 
Strategic workshops were held at all colleges and directorates throughout the University with the aim to provide 
an overview of the strategic themes and in turn developing actionable strategic objectives and initiatives.Strategic Champions were appointed to develop, facilitate, coordinate and champion the Strategic Goals.
Over 200 initiatives were submitted to the strategy office, from all colleges and directorates. Each initiative was 
rationalized, prioritized and reviewed. These priority initiatives form the core of this strategy.Strategic goals will be achieved through our objectives; in turn, the objectives will be achieved through initiatives 
and strategic action plans. The performance of the strategy will be measured through a number of key 
performance indicators and operational indicators. 
Our Board of Trustees, all employees, college advisory board members, and primary partner organizations of the 
University were given the opportunity to provide feedback on the strategic vision, mission, goals and objectives. 
The student council was fully engaged and consulted in the development of the strategy. The results of the 
feedback helped craft the development of the strategy.
24 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 25
The primary focus of the Vision and Mission of the University of 
Sharjah is to develop lifelong learners and leaders. This approach is 
delivered through the student learning experience and engagement 
throughout the student journey. These experiences encompass not 
only academic learning, but also interactions with staff, on-campus 
functions, library, advisory, career counseling, and other aspects of 
the student journey from the first inquiry to graduation and alumni 
engagements. The University strives to build a strong reputation for 
providing the highest quality student experience, which is rooted in 
the authentic and aesthetic appeal of the learning environment.Student Experience
Goal One1.1.1 Improve the students experience on campus1.1 Make the University of Sharjah campus more welcoming and 
supportive for all, with a focus on student wellbeing.To improve the student learning experience, the University of Sharjah has developed an innovative and focused plan to 
enhance and enrich student services and facilities. As part of this strategic focus, the University aims to ensure that all new 
and existing services support a quality student-centered learning experience, meet student residential and social needs, 
provide effective student support services and promote personal development and ultimately employability.
The student campus experience is a critical part of the strategic goals. Students are encouraged to spend more time on 
campus so that they may fully immerse themselves in the learning environment as well as extracurricular activities. The 
University of Sharjah is focused on improving its reputation ranking and student satisfaction, which will attract future 
quality students.  In addition, improvements to interior areas of student facilities will include the following areas:
Improve the dormitories experience.
Improve the sport facilities for the students.
Improve the dining halls for the students.
The student hub project (renovation of the registration and admission building).
 Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Student satisfaction.
Important improvements related 
to supporting an enhanced student 
experience.% Utilization of facilities.
% Student enrolment growth.
% College students actively participating in college and community outreach activities.
% Complaints responded to within agreed timescales
1.2.1 Improve the interior and exterior physical environment on campus1.2 Enhance programs, services and facilities for people with 
disabilities.
Efforts to enhance the on-campus experience for people with disabilities require attention to improving freedom of 
access for all students at a minimum. This includes the following objectives:
Create tactile paths around campus.
Create a complete wayfinding system, including digital and physical signage.
Improve the existing systems to support the people with disabilities.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Student satisfaction (people with disabilities). Important improvements related directly 
to the experience of people with  
disabilities, through physical facility  
developments.% Utilization of facilities (people with disabilities).
% Student enrolment growth (people with disabilities).Enhance programs, services and facilities for people with disabilities.Make the University of Sharjah campus more welcoming and supportive for all, with a focus on student wellbeing.
26 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 27
1.3.1 Student support and service centers (Student Success Center):1.3 Enhance student advisory and support for academic achievement.
As an essential student support service, the Student Success Center (SSC) will provide professional academic support to 
students. The student success center will help students define and achieve their individual academic goals, contributing 
to achieving maximum success. To accomplish these goals, the center will provide student advisory, counseling, group 
workshops, online courses, peer-to-peer assistance, and specialized programming year-round, which is available to all 
students in all colleges and at all levels of achievement and study. Given the benefits of full engagement in the learning 
community, the center will serve as an academic and social hub where students can meet and engage in activities 
designed to guide and develop students through various aspects of academic life on campus.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Reduction in the number of students under academic probation.
High priority new services related directly 
to supporting students at risk of failure, or 
students requiring additional support.% ontime student graduation.
Average number of students advising sessions.
% Reduction of student academic drop out.
% Student satisfaction.
% Utilization of facilities.Enhance student advisory and support for academic achievement.
1.4.1 Career Success Center1.4 Increase the employability of University of Sharjah students, while 
improving internship and cooperative opportunities.
The establishment of the Career Success Center (CSC) will provide comprehensive student support for career development. 
The University of Sharjah strives to ensure the maximum employability of students by providing the ability for students to 
pursue meaningful experiential learning and transition to employment opportunities. With an emphasis on industry 
collaboration, the Career Success Center will provide prospects for collaboration with corporations, faculty, students, and 
alumni to develop outreach strategies to cultivate relationships and contribute to the national agenda of Emiratization. 
The CSC will schedule career related workshops on an ongoing basis, targeting the various levels of students and alumni. 
The center will include four main functions: internship, on-campus employment, career advising, and international 
internship exchange.
 Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Employability (whithin 12 months of graduation).Important services directed at 
supporting students’ 
employability potential.% Utilization of career success center.
% Student satisfaction with career success center.Increase the employability of University of Sharjah students, while improving internship and cooperative opportunities.
1.5 Enhance facilities and services at our branches.
Supporting the ongoing development of the University of Sharjah branch facilities remains a critical function of operations. 
Establishing recreational facilities and sports complexes in Kalba and Al-Zaid branches, student centers in the Khorfakkan 
and Kalba branches and enhancing the catering facilities at all the University of Sharjah branches to be attractive and 
integrated will be a priority in the coming years.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Student satisfaction (Branches). Important improvements related 
directly to the student experience at 
branches through physical facility 
developments.% Utilization of branches recreational facilities and sports complexes.
% Student enrolment (Branches).Enhance facilities and services at our branches.

28 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 29
One of the key goals at the University of Sharjah is to cultivate, recruit, 
develop and retain outstanding teaching faculty to create a team of 
professionals with competencies that can support the delivery of an 
exceptional learning experience for our students. Thus, the University 
will launch several initiatives that will be reinforced by the critical 
strategic goal of attracting and retaining high-quality faculty and 
administrative staff. Vital to this effort will be the focus on nurturing 
and developing a cohort of talented Emirati scientists, researchers, 
and educators to lead the University in the upcoming years. The 
University of Sharjah will also invest in a new Institute of Leadership 
in Higher Education to ensure that faculty are well prepared to deliver 
an excellent teaching experience that is in-line with the high standards 
expected of the University.People
Goal Two2.1.1 Human Resources transformation 2.1 Recruit, develop, retain talented faculty and professional staff.
Through a University of Sharjah talent management program, we will help employees build their career paths, enhance 
employee knowledge and skills, align daily tasks with actual job descriptions, introduce succession planning and implement 
a contemporary performance appraisal system, which will include employee development, engagement, performance 
and succession planning. Through a Human Resources Transformation program, the University’s HR team will uplift the 
skills, competencies and tools used to enable the University to provide an effective and seamless employee management 
experience. 
We will implement a University Employee Experience Journey which will incorporate five main phases: 
Recruiting: Deploying contemporary talent recruiting methodologies and toolsets to ensure the recruiting process is 
effective, efficient and transparent.
Onboarding: Through orientation workshops and follow-up surveys.
Initial development: Ensuring that institutional knowledge, policies and processes are passed on quickly to enable 
new starters productivity.
Ongoing development/retention: Through talent management and development programs to ensure our faculty and 
professional staff are best appraised and equipped to do their jobs well.
Offboarding: Through effective exit interviews and follow-up surveys to ensure that feedback on resignations is 
captured and acted upon.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Employee retention. 
Important transformation of the Human 
Resources Department within University of 
Sharjah, with an aim to effectively and effi-
ciently recruit, develop and retain talented 
faculty and professional staff.% Employees completing probationary period.
% Time to fill.
% Vacancies outstanding.
% Satisfaction of new joiners.Recruit, develop, retain talented faculty and professional staff.
2.2.1 Faculty and professional staff development 2.2 Empower faculty and professional staff through professional 
development.
Professional development programs will ensure that faculty and professional staff are provided with training, aligned to 
the development of defined competencies and skills necessary to deliver their work, and in doing so enhancing their 
career development. Faculty teaching learning, and research development needs will be delivered mainly through the 
University of Sharjah’s Institute of Leadership in Higher Education; however, training in soft skills, administrative and 
general capabilities will be addressed through the establishment of professional development programs for faculty and 
professional staff.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
# Average hours of professional development (each year).Essential staff development program, 
aimed towards providing faculty and staff 
systematic, regular and periodic training.% Employee satisfaction.Empower faculty and professional staff through professional development.
30 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 31
Sharjah
Spirit
32 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 33
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
# Work related accidents.
Important and effective development of 
services related to the wellbeing and safe -
ty of all University of Sharjah employees.% Reduction in sickness leave.
% Employees with health insurance coverage.
% Employee satisfaction.2.3.1 Emirati graduate program
2.3.2 Emirati scientists, scholars, researchers and educators2.3 Develop the Emiratization Program.
The University of Sharjah also aims to enhance the skills and productivity of the UAE workforce, focusing on recruiting 
Emirati graduates and developing their skills within the work environment. This will be achieved through a graduate 
program, in which new Emirati staff will be able to work on rotation through administrative units, enhancing their skills 
through practical and challenging work opportunities. This program will enable the University to attract and recruit 
Emiratis for future management positions, by focusing on their career path development and by providing them with the 
necessary skills and knowledge to succeed as active leaders.
Vital to our efforts will be the focus on nurturing and developing a cohort of talented Emirati scientists, scholars, researchers, 
and educators to lead the University of Sharjah in the upcoming years. This will be achieved by identifying promising 
students and early career academics for targeted development and mentoring opportunities from within the University, 
our partner universities and institutes worldwide.An essential objective for the University of Sharjah is to enhance our Emiratization program in order to provide an 
appropriate prioritized career pathway for UAE citizens, developing their skills and preparing them for future opportunities 
within the University and the broader workforce.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Emiratization.Important and essential development pro-
gram, aimed towards providing support 
mechanisms specifically for UAE National 
faculty and staff, in the areas of recruit -
ment, development and retention.% Emirati retention.
% Emirati scientists, scholars, researchers and educators.
% Employee satisfaction (UAE Nationals).Develop the Emiratization Program. 
Enhance employee wellbeing, safety, and healthcare.2.4 Enhance employee wellbeing, safety and healthcare.
Ensuring all University of Sharjah employees work in an environment where their wellbeing, workplace safety and 
healthcare needs are achieved is paramount to the University. Wellness, workplace safety and employee healthcare 
promote positive workforce engagement, delivering productivity and employee satisfaction, resulting in an efficient and 
productive work environment. In parallel, access to affordable quality healthcare for all University’s employees and their 
families is a priority.2.5.1 Quality charter and service excellence 
2.5.2 Internal communications 
2.5.3 Transformation management office2.5 Develop an environment of service excellence.
The University of Sharjah will implement and develop a quality charter to support service excellence within the 
administrative functions of the institution. This will broadly include building on the development of policies, procedures 
and processes, resulting in the creation of a service catalog that will enable access to detailed information on all the 
administrative functions and processes. The charter will include the establishment of service level agreements (SLA), 
which will be used to set reasonable timescales for the completion of processes.
Internal communications will be reviewed to identify areas of best practices and potential gaps in communications. The 
review will initiate the development of a holistic internal communications network. This will ensure that information is 
processed correctly and sent to the correct recipient in an appropriate format and at the proper time.
The initiative requires the establishment of a transformation office which will coordinate and ensure the implementation 
of strategic initiatives, and ultimately the transformation of the University of Sharjah. This will be undertaken through 
matrix management structures, within the institution, coordinated and lead by a transformation program management 
office.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Employee satisfaction.
Essential coordination of 
transformational initiatives delivered 
through a matrix management 
structure.% Student satisfaction.
% Complaints responded to within agreed timescales.
% SLA’s delivered within agreed timescales.
% Completion of strategic initiatives within agreed timescales.Develop an environment of service excellence.

34 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 35
We promote a commitment to the development and provision of a 
collaborative, innovative and sustainable learning environment. As 
such, we strive to excel in achieving the growth of strong twenty-first 
century skills among students, necessary to meet current and 
changing demands for employability and cultural advancement. 
Strategic partnerships and effective governance will be used to serve 
our local and global communities to more fully enable the core 
academic and professional programs.Innovation
Goal threeKey Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Internal audit action plans completed.
Critical and important development of 
a governance and operating model(s) 
supported by effective and efficient, policy 
and procedure development.Number of enterprise level risks.
% Employee satisfaction.
% Student satisfaction.
% SLA’s delivered within agreed timescales.3.1.2 Development of policies and procedures
The development of policies and procedures will entail a standardization of the existing policies and procedures across 
University of Sharjah departments, which will include (1) the development of a unified reporting and verification process; 
and (2) the development of a process to track policy and procedure revisions and improvements with an aim to incorporate 
a student-oriented culture and provide improved effectiveness of  the institutional administrative processes. 
The development of a unified reporting and verification process has begun through the creation of this comprehensive 
and participatory strategic plan. To institutionalize the strategic planning process, the University will publish an annual 
organizational performance-report that lists accomplishments on critical strategic issues.
3.1.3 Khorfakkan University
As a strategic priority, the University of Sharjah will prioritize the development of Khorfakkan University into a self-
governing and self-supporting institution. This will provide valuable educational resources and experiences to the 
Khorfakkan community.3.1 Build an agile governance and operating model, with the aim to 
establish a robust and efficient operations platform on which to grow.
3.1.1 Agile governance and operating model
The University of Sharjah plans to amplify institutional effectiveness through redesigning and developing student-focused 
supportive operating models and governance frameworks. This will include redesigning the delegation of authority to 
allow decisions to be made more efficiently and effectively, as part of maximizing effectiveness and delivering efficient 
support services. 
The University will focus on building a student-focused environment in which value-added internal processes are 
developed and implemented. We will assess the effectiveness and efficiency of current organizational structures, 
operations, reporting and governance, including the risk management framework, to identify any weaknesses. This will 
allow recommendations for improvements in line with the University’s strategic objectives. The University of Sharjah will 
adopt and adapt best practices and future practice governance and operating frameworks, for optimal administration 
and management of resources, faculty, staff and student services.
Build an agile governance and operating model, with the aim to establish a robust and efficient operations 
platform on which to grow.
36 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 37
3.2 Unify and integrate IT systems to serve the education, research 
and operation activities.
3.2.1 Enabling the smart campus - data quality and information 
3.2.2 Enabling the digital campus
3.2.3 Enabling the digital classroom and learning spacesThe Implementation of data governance and business intelligence to ensure data accuracy and to empower the University 
of Sharjah to make data-driven decisions with confidence is a high priority. In this way, information gained through valid 
data collection and analysis is used to support wiser, more efficient decision-making which will then support increased 
competitiveness on a global scale.
Data-driven decision-making is a critical factor in supporting organizational success. Data governance provides a framework 
to ensure that data is accurate and reliable, which will provide quality information management.
Implement new and upgrade existing technologies along with clearly defined and effective processes to enable the 
University of Sharjah to leverage efficiency savings. This will provide improved technology to staff and students, offering 
a range of smart University services for student recruitment, administration, physical access, security and payment 
processes. Ensuring our people have the best possible technological environment in which to operate.
Including:
Upgrade the technologies in learning spaces to provide productive pedagogical environments that allow students to learn 
more effectively and gives faculty the opportunity to deliver world-class education to the students at the University of 
Sharjah. These technologies will enable these environments to be fully connected to a digital world, supporting video 
conferencing that can facilitate learning by bringing in experts into the learning space, the recording of lectures so that 
students can repeat lectures for content that they find challenging or if there is a language barrier. Audio and visual 
services will be of a high standard ensuring technology is effective and reliable. This investment will effectively support 
the student and staff experience, improving student outcomes and establishing the University of Sharjah as a world-class 
university.Enterprise Records Management System
Enhanced Enrolment and Admissions 
CRM 
Student Portal
Digital Certificates
Event ManagementSelf Service Digital Services (Staff and Students)
Library Technology Upgrades
New WIFI
Multifunction Device Fleet
Cloud Services
Physical Security and Access Management
3.2.4 Innovation and entrepreneurship hubs
Development of a Fabrication Laboratory (FabLab) that is equipped with a range of high-tech devices and facilities. The 
goal of the facility will be to offer a platform for faculty members and students to transform ideas into reality using 
advanced digital manufacturing technology, supporting the creation of new designs, prototypes, 3D models and products. 
Establishing a FabLab at the University of Sharjah will help achieve the following objectives: (1) support an innovative, 
creative, and entrepreneurial spirit among University of Sharjah researchers and students; (2) nurture a creative spirit and 
build skills in design, digital manufacturing and tailored use of digital technologies; (3) position the University of Sharjah 
as a distinctive regional center for the provision of inventive fabrication facilities and the delivery of innovative enterprise 
opportunities; and (4) provide the market with new products and contribute to the economic development of the UAE. 
This capability will serve the local community and contribute to the broader economic development of the UAE.Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Utilization of Innovation and Entrepreneurship Hubs. Important development of innovation and 
entrepreneurship facilities to 
support student readiness for the fourth 
industrial revolution.% Patents submitted using Innovation and Entrepreneurship Hubs.
# Impactfull quality innovative activities, events or workshops.
% of teaching spaces with advanced teaching technology.
Critical initiatives to improve decision 
making processes, through efficient en-
ablement of technology, and improvement 
of the educational experience through the 
adoption of technology.% of rationalization of technology (Application) portfolio. 
Reduction of technology security bridges. 
% of uncontrolled data migrated into controlled corporate systems.
% Network availability.
Number of help desk calls resolved within SLA.
% Core systems availability.
% Utilization of learning management system.
3.3  Establish a financially sustainable institution with diverse 
sources of income.
3.3.1 Diversifying and growing revenue streams / build endowment
The University of Sharjah will seek to improve its financial sustainability through four primary revenue sources:
Tuition fees – via an improved mix of fees and student enrolment. 
Commercial – through industry partnerships, expert consulting activities. 
Philanthropy – through developing our fund-raising capabilities.
External research grants - from international and national research funding sources.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Endowments value. Significant and essential
financial stability for University of Sharjah. % of Commercial, External and Philanthropic revenue as % of total revenue.Unify and integrate IT systems to serve the education, research and operation activities
Establish a financially sustainable institution with diverse sources of income.
38 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 39
3.4  Efficiently managing resources to establish a sustainable 
financial base and examine the distribution of resources across 
programs.
3.4.1 Optimizing academic program offeringThrough revisions to the operational framework and creation of a new university management model, the University of 
Sharjah will increase the transparency and understanding of its revenue and cost base. This will allow the University to 
apply targeted operating margin controls at College and Business Unit levels, which will enable the generation of additional 
efficiencies. This will in turn provide the analytical capacity to develop innovative, strong and sustainable revenue sources, 
partnered with targeted optimization and efficiency programs, to ensure the University’s overall financial sustainability.
Improve University of Sharjah financial sustainability and redeploy resources on activities that are more aligned with 
strategic priorities, through:
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% of energy savings.
Significant and essential financial 
stability for University of Sharjah.Teaching and research revenue per AED of employee cost.
Net operating margin as a percentage.Powering up high contribution programs.
Rationalizing / Merging / Powering down low contribution programs, unless deemed strategic for the University 
overall.
Optimizing curriculum and modernising teaching delivery methods, to deliver modern high quality, efficient teaching 
pedagogy. 
3.4.2 Implementing cost efficient initiatives
Through implementation of the University of Sharjah management model, all operating units will be regularly reviewed 
and benchmarked to ensure they are operating at best practice standards. This is anticipated to release resources that will 
be used to fund strategic initiatives.
Efficiently managing University resources to establish a sustainable financial base and examine the distribution of 
resources across programs.3.5.1 International and education exhibitions and other exhibitions related to targeted 
sectors in the industry and community
3.5.2 Promote the new environment to prospective and current students  
(locally and internationally)
3.5.3 Introduce new procedures to recruit students; undergraduate and graduate level 
(locally and internationally)3.5  Improve University of Sharjah branding and internationalization.
One of the primary focuses is to increase revenue and secure financial sustainability of the University of Sharjah; the 
University will implement initiatives to increase student enrolment and build revenue generating programs. The student 
enrolment initiative will focus on developing an ambitious, innovative and integrated strategy to improve student 
recruitment and retention. It will be developed from a market analysis of prospective student profiles and needs.
This initiative will build awareness of the University of Sharjah’s educational and research capabilities with a focus on 
community services across a diverse range of sectors within both the general community and industry. This will be 
accomplished in part through opportunities to attend international and local education exhibitions, particularly those in 
which the University can have an impact on the local community and industry.
The rationale of this initiative is to promote the new environment to future students as a life-changing experience within 
their education journey. This approach will be used to support an increase in admissions of international students at both 
the undergraduate and graduate levels and to develop a higher rate of retention.
Utilization of the new CRM system and targeted structured marketing campaigns will introduce new opportunities to add 
value to the recruitment process internationally.
This initiative is also expected to increase the level of the students accepted to the University of Sharjah through developing 
a collaboration with the highly rated schools that direct the most students to the University.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Increase of global enrolment.
Critical implementation of an optimized 
branding and internationalization ap-
proach to develop the University branding 
and global reach.% Increase in full time master’s and PhD students.
% Increase in brand recognition.
% Students enrolment.
Number of global recruitment conferences attended.Improve University branding and internationalization. 
40 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 41
3.6.1 Campus environmental sustainability
3.6.2 Campus environmental awareness This initiative aims to ensure that campus environmental sustainability practices at the University of Sharjah are adopted 
and contribute to providing a cleaner environment and increased sustainability standards. It provides a set of sustainability 
solutions including a sustainable master plan for the University campus that ensures efficient use of buildings and creates 
livable, active outdoor facilities; waste segregation and recycling program that promotes recycling culture; drinking water 
filtration systems that saves water, reduces the use of plastic bottles, and promotes a safe tap water culture; water 
efficient devices to reduce water consumption; Sustainable Garden that strengthens the implementations of sustainability 
practices at the University; and an electrical vehicle sustainable charging station that reduces the power consumption and 
greenhouse gas emission. 
This initiative aims to raise the sustainability awareness level within the University of Sharjah community, whilst promoting 
positive attitudes and behaviors towards sustainability. This will be achieved through organizing sustainability campaigns 
to educate and engage University stakeholders on best-practice sustainability approaches.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Reduction in utilities and resources consumption such as water, energy, printing 
papers and waste sent to landfill.Enhancing the sustainability awareness 
level among University of Sharjah 
stakeholders (students, staff, faculty 
members) and creating positive attitudes 
towards the environment.
Higher stakeholders (students, staff, faculty 
members) satisfaction.
Contribution to UAE 2030 vision by saving 
resources and commitment to clean 
environment standards.
Improve University of Sharjah sustainability 
ranking.Positive habits, attitudes and higher adoption of sustainability practices.
Number of sustainability events/activities organized to raise awareness level.
Level of greenhouse gas emissions.3.6  Develop an environmentally sustainable campus.
This initiative consists of Campus Environmental Sustainability and Awareness elements.
Develop an environmentally sustainable campus.
Professor Hamid M. K. Al Naimiy
Chancellor of the University of SharjahGuided by the vision, wisdom and support of His Highness, 
Ruler of Sharjah, the University’s mission and the shared 
commitment of our faculty, staff and students, a new level of 
excellence will be reached.
42 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 43
The University of Sharjah acknowledges the critical role of scientific 
research towards its reputation, development, and advancement. 
We are committed to continued research efforts that serve to 
address the emerging challenges of our times. As an institution of 
advanced learning we remain focused on providing innovative 
world-class research environments to support new insights and a 
greater understanding of critical issues.Research
Goal Four4.1 Support research management and dissemination. 
4.2 Support and reward researchers, while engaging students.4.1.1 Establish an online grants management system 
4.2.1 Increase the number of graduate research assistantships 
4.2.2 Establish new research groups in areas of strength 
4.2.3 Increase number of research grants Due to a large number of research projects both internal and externally funded, the University of Sharjah has identified 
the need for an automated online system to organize and coordinate; the submission, finance, follow-up, review, referring 
and progress of this large number of funded research projects.
As the number of graduate programs grows, it is essential to provide research scholarships to top students to ensure the 
availability of full-time graduate research assistants. One of the significant limitations to increase research productivity 
and output at University of Sharjah is the availability of research assistants. Full-time MSc and Ph.D. students serve as 
excellent research assistants and do not require the resources of graduates. Research assistants support research activity 
and output, which results in higher University ranking, improved University reputation, enhanced student learning and 
partnerships within the community. Graduate research assistants are essential to support the work of research groups 
and centers affiliated with Ph.D. and MSc programs.
The Vice Chancellor for Research and Graduate Studies has received submissions for eleven new research groups in the 
areas of sciences, computing, engineering, medicine, and health sciences. This critical research will support the University 
with ranking and reputation whilst enhancing student learning, development of community partnerships & enhance the 
University’s research output.
The current participation rate in grants is expected to increase as faculty members become more active in research. This 
increase is stemming from several areas. First, the creation of the College of Computing and Informatics is expected to 
increase the demand for research grant funds. Second, as more research-oriented faculty are hired, the demand for grant 
funding will increase. Third, the current participation rate in seeking grant funding amongst existing faculty is expected to 
increase as more faculty members become active in research to support improved University of Sharjah ranking and 
reputation, enhancing student learning, partnerships with the community, and increased research output.Support research management and dissemination. 
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Average number of peer reviewed publications per faculty member (One of which 
must be Q1, Q2 or equivalent).Critical evaluation and focus of current and 
future research projects.
% Increase the number of citations per academic discipline.  
44 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 45
4.2.5 Encourage and support undergraduate research  
Integrating research into teaching and learning allows students to experience the work of scientists through participating 
in analyzing, applying, discovering and validating knowledge.  It also prepares students to be life-long learners and keeps 
them abreast of advances in science and technology, contributes to creating a culture of inquiry, and facilitates compliance 
with new quality assurance requirements. Strategically, engaging motivated students in research can significantly enhance 
the University of Sharjah’s research output and partnerships with community organizations.  Integration, however, is 
challenging and requires commitment and adequate resources to ensure success.  Support is to be provided in the form 
of accessibility to research laboratories, research groups and providing small research grants to undergraduate student 
teams working under the supervision of research professors and postdoctoral fellows.
4.3.2 Establish a Drug Development and Diagnostic Center
This center will be the first of its kind in the Middle East. With this innovative research and development center, the 
University of Sharjah will be able to attract industry partnerships, secure funding sources, and will be able to obtain 
licensing of products developed. Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Increase number of graduate research Assistantships. 
Vital support and reward for researchers in 
addition to engaging students in research.% Increase number of research grants (External).
Average number of peer reviewed publications per faculty member (One of which 
must be Q1, Q2 or equivalent).
% Increase publications from student research.
4.3 Establish sustainable dynamic priority research areas in service 
of the community.
4.3.1 Establish Research Centers of Excellence in Sciences, Computing and Engineering
The establishment of productive research centers in sciences, computing, and engineering will produce increased research 
output as well as improve ranking and reputation for the University of Sharjah. The research centers will also aim to 
enhance student learning from top quality faculty and researchers and strengthen partnerships with the community. 
Over the past four years, the areas of research strength in science and engineering have been identified and research 
groups have been formed around these areas. These priority areas are in line with the national priorities in research and 
development. The Research Institute of Science and Engineering (RISE) is poised to create research centers to help focus 
resources, strengthen research, and enhance the University reputation in these areas.Support and reward researchers, while engaging students.4.2.4 Provide research incentive schemes, with possible financial rewards for quality Q1 publications 
This initiative consists of using research incentive schemes as drivers for knowledge output, to be implemented during 
the years 2019-2024. These schemes include, but are not limited to, the following actions: (1) reducing the teaching load 
for research-active faculty and researchers working on priority research areas; (2) implementing sabbatical leave for 
distinguished research faculty; (3) reinforcing research training and support by training new researchers and providing 
adequate research assistants and post-doctoral researchers; (4) improving motivation policy and aligning this policy with 
different researchers’ needs and levels of satisfaction; (5) evaluating research productivity on the basis of quality and 
quantity; (6) providing more opportunities for research collaboration among faculty and across universities; (7) establishing 
better competition and reward mechanisms for research productivity; and (8) working to eliminate inhibitors of research 
productivity and building a competitive research culture. 
4.4.1 Complete establishment of new research building with additional research laboratories
4.4.2 International Center for Theoretical Physics (ICTP)
The Center will support efforts for drug discovery and development for cancer treatment, multidrug-resistant bacteria 
and other common diseases as well as the discovery of biomarkers and biomaterials for healing, and medical devices. 
Multiple research groups within the University will be part of this Center.The University of Sharjah is scheduled to complete the new research building in early 2020. State-of-the-art laboratories 
will be used to support research and community service. The laboratories will provide opportunity and resources to 
support an increase in the productivity of RISE (Research Institute of Science and Engineering) research groups and 
research centers, increased quality research output provided to Research Group and Research Center (according to the 
performance index), an enhanced University reputation and as a result an increase in partnerships with community 
organizations.
The new research building has 15 research labs that require research equipment. RISE has invested in partially establishing 
eight laboratories with purchased equipment to be relocated to the latest research building, but which are presently 
scattered in various teaching and learning labs across the University. Therefore, RISE needs to complete the establishment 
of existing research support facilities in stages with new research facilities. In addition, RISE will need to hire laboratory 
supervisors to run the equipment in the labs and will need to provide an operational fund to each lab to cover operational 
costs.
With a particular interest in the physical and mathematical sciences, the University of Sharjah will strive to develop the 
expansion of advanced studies and research in this discipline. The goal is to support excellence in the field to develop high-
level scientific programs while focusing efforts on the needs of developing countries; provide an international forum of 
scientific contacts amongst scientists on a global basis; conduct research of the highest international standards; and 
maintain an environment conducive to innovative scientific inquiry for the University community.
 Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Increased visibility and reputation of University of Sharjah internationally.Development and implementation of 
vital resources and facilities in various 
disciplines to support critical research 
efforts.Average number of peer reviewed publications per faculty member (One of which 
must be Q1, Q2 or equivalent).
% Increase in International collaboration.Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Revenue growth by the establishment of a drug development and diagnostic 
center.
Establishment of the drug development 
and diagnostic center, providing vital 
medical services and resources to support 
heightened research efforts and the com-
munity at large.% Increased external funding from the establishment of research centers of 
excellence in sciences, computing and engineering.
% Increased in local collaboration.
% Increased in international collaboration.
% Increase in the number of patents applications filled. 
Average number of peer reviewed publications per faculty member (One of which 
must be Q1, Q2 or equivalent).
4.4 Expand and equip state-of-the-art research facilities. Establish sustainable dynamic priority research areas in service of the community. 
Expand and equip state-of-the-art research facilities.
46 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 47
Industry & CommunityAs an institute of higher education, we strive to develop and sharpen 
minds as a means of supporting human advancement in industry 
and within the community. This commitment of the University of 
Sharjah is further enhanced through strong partnerships and support 
for innovation. The University has a role in supporting community 
development and service towards raising awareness and resolving 
issues of concern in the community. Therefore, the University 
remains committed to both providing a distinctive and supportive 
campus and building innovative strategic partnerships, which 
together contribute to the well-being of our University, community, 
and society on both a local and global scale.
Goal Five5.1 Communicate more effectively with society to increase local, 
regional and international relations in a bid to foster research and 
innovation through greater collaboration.
5.1.1 Sharjah Oasis in Research, Technology and Innovation (SOTI)
5.1.2 Establishing and reactivating the College Advisory Boards 
5.1.4 Providing world-class conferences for our community5.1.3 Effective utilization of agreements and MOUs with societyThe objectives of the SOTI will include (1) processing applied scientific research to produce new techniques and innovation 
through providing an environment that supports creativity and innovation; (2) developing knowledgeable, economical 
projects with the creation of key partnerships with universities and related sectors; (3) proposing educational and training 
programs in coordination with the related sectors; (4) encouraging and supporting faculty and students in their scientific 
research endeavors and supporting continuous development of their scientific abilities; (5) encouraging industry (in the 
form of companies, authorities, and global centers) to invest within the SOTI; (6) supporting, encouraging and developing 
an environment of innovation and creativity to support the standing of the University and the Emirate as a global 
destination in the field of research, development technology, education, and creative science; (7) promoting and 
supporting the enactment of legislation contributing to the engagement of the education sector, specifically faculty, staff 
and students in launching their private enterprises; and (8) developing and nurturing talents and human labor forces in 
the fields related to the Emirate’s economic and social priorities, serving to enhance the Emirate’s competitive power 
through recruiting and encouraging firms and companies specialized in innovative fields.  
To support plans for ongoing improvements within the colleges, regarding program quality and alignment to industry’s 
needs, College Advisory Boards will be reactivated and refocused to transfer market experience, market needs and 
support funding opportunities.
The University of Sharjah will seek to promote major international conferences and scientific events through advanced 
communication channels to attract new partners, sponsors, scientists, keynote speakers, researchers and intellectuals. 
Promotion of these types of activities will contribute to supporting research quality through improving the branding and 
international reputation of the University, providing a strong impact.We will strengthen the cooperation between the University of Sharjah colleges and the greater community to obtain 
scholarship, funding research, and events sponsorship. Working within the community will support development, 
promotion, and implementation of policies and practices that will help achieve the developmental goals of the University 
related to promotion and enhancement of education and scientific research. New approaches will be identifying 
efficiencies, and improved mechanisms of collaboration through realization of the values obtained through Memorandums 
of Understanding, and effective partnerships.
48 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 49
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Number of Professorship chairs funded externally.Critical fundraising initiatives toward 
enhancing efforts of philanthropy and 
increasing endowment.Value of established endowment.
% Sponsorship revenue increase per annum.5.2 Establish philanthropy and endowment.
5.3 Increase alumni involvement in fundraising and networking.5.2.1 Establish professorship chairs and establish endowment
5.3.1 Alumni InitiativesThe establishment of endowed professorships requires attracting funding from industry, individuals, the community, 
businesses and alumni to support research. An endowed professorship (or endowed chair) is a University of Sharjah 
position funded by revenue from an endowment fund specifically set up for this purpose. The University will actively 
pursue endowed professorships opportunities to support community research and provide revenue for the University.
As part of the Alumni Initiatives, sponsorship opportunities will be identified to financially support the needs of current 
students. This financial fund will be used to help students who are unable to pay their fees and receive their graduate 
certificate.
To support improved communication and outreach, volunteering teams consisting of Alumni members, all of which will 
be officially registered in the Ministry of Community Development, will participate in community events. A full review of 
the alumni governance structures regarding the formation of the alumni association will be conducted to support up to 
date policies and procedures to meet current and future needs.Establish philanthropy and endowment. 
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Revenue generated from lifelong learning (training) programs.
Implementation of professional 
development and consultancy services 
for industry, community and society 
toward supporting necessary community 
development and revenue growth.Number of courses delivered.
Revenue generated from consultancy services.
Number of participants.
% Satisfaction with courses delivered.
Number of active alumni.5.4 Provide professional development, continuing education and 
consultancy services for industries, the community and society.
5.4.1 Professional development for Government of Sharjah Employees
The Strategic plan for training Government of Sharjah employees for five years from 2018-2022 includes training over 
5,000 employees and conducting 150 professional diploma training programs. The Center for Continuing Education and 
Professional Development will enhance learning and professional development among government employees, fostering 
a greater sense of alliance and shared goals between the University of Sharjah and the broader community.
In addition to professional development for the Government of Sharjah employees, the Center for Continuing Education 
and Professional Development will also actively promote and deliver professional development and consultancy services 
for the local industry and community.
Provide professional development, continuing education and consultancy services for industries, 
the community and society.Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Number of sponsorships.Initiatives aimed at supporting revenue 
through more aggressive alumni 
fundraising efforts.Value of Philanthropic revenue.
Number of active alumni.Increase alumni involvement in fundraising and networking. 5.3.2 Develop and enhance the involvement of alumni in University activities
To develop University of Sharjah into a vibrant organization, working to strengthen connections among alumni through 
student outreach and alumni activities. Such activities include volunteer opportunities, social functions and conferences 
organized by the University. The purpose of the initiative is to maintain and promote good relations among its members 
and to promote collaboration with the colleges and cooperation with faculty and students toward the welfare of the 
University and the community it serves.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
Average number of advisory boards.
Essential service development to support 
more effective communication and 
collaboration at the University and general 
societal levels, aimed at increasing local, 
regional, and international relations, as 
well as fostering research and innovation 
through collaboration.Average number of advisory board member attendance
% of completed actions from advisory board meetings.
% Active participation of MOU organization.
% Number of MOU’s signed.
Revenue from conferences.
% Satisfaction (conference).
# of College and Community outreach activities.Communicate more effectively with society to increase local, regional and international relations in a bid to foster 
research and innovation through greater collaboration.5.1.5 Enhancing the space exhibitions for visually impaired people
The University of Sharjah strives to provide opportunities to visually impaired persons to learn more about astronomy and 
space sciences. This will be achieved through specific strategies, including: (a) enhancing all walking areas with tactile tiles 
and any other adaptations to enable visually impaired people to walk freely among the exhibitions and participate 
appropriately; (b) introducing Talking Space Exhibits utilizing Bluetooth technology to transmit a signal to multiple VIP 
users allowing content to be heard through mobile phones; and (c) developing the Audible Planetarium by enhancing the 
traditional planetarium showcased in the exhibition.
50 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 51
Teaching & LearningWe are committed to providing a collaborative, innovative and 
sustainable learning environment that cultivates twenty-first century 
skills among its students.
Goal Six6.1 Enhance the teaching and learning environment by incorporating 
leading edge technology.
6.1.1 Classroom environment initiative
6.1.2 Laboratory environment initiativeGiven the need for the transformation of higher education to address the range of opportunities and challenges, the 
University of Sharjah is committed to providing a collaborative, innovative and sustainable learning environment that 
cultivates twenty-first century skills among its students. These challenges support the need for a new and innovative 
approach. We will serve our local and global communities’ current and future needs by offering innovative academic and 
professional programs.
Teaching and learning is the core business of the University. Digital technologies are a critical component of effective 
learning spaces. The establishment of and investment in resources for transforming the University of Sharjah’s learning 
spaces into modern technological advanced environments is a critical priority. We must ensure that classrooms effectively 
meet the expectations of faculty and students. Providing an advanced and effective technology to support improved 
pedagogical practices and student learning is of the highest priority.
This will be achieved by creating interactive learning spaces that improve student engagement and participation, allowing 
students to learn deeper and faster — promoting flexibility and adaptability within the learning environment.
The University of Sharjah will seek to deliver learning laboratory spaces that are modern, inclusive and technically well-
equipped for effective teaching and learning. The University will continue to provide efficient and innovative technology 
to support learning, teaching and research. We are committed to continuing to develop our approaches to find creative 
and practical solutions for the access and scheduling of laboratory resources through rationalization and capitalization of 
new resources.
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Faculty satisfaction.
Renewed development of the classroom 
and laboratory environments to align with 
technology and research needs, including 
IT resources and ergonomic furniture to 
support faculty and student health.% Student satisfaction.
% Classroom observations (focusing on the use of technology).
% of Teaching units utilizing technology.
% of Teaching units utilizing blended learning.
Student to faculty ratio.Enhance our teaching and learning environment by incorporating leading edge technology. 
52 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 53
6.2.1 Innovative methodologies in teaching initiative
6.3.1 Existing program review and accreditation
6.3.2 New program development and accreditation6.2.2 Integration of research into teaching and learning  This initiative will encourage University of Sharjah faculty to adopt innovative and contemporary methodologies for 
facilitating student learning. Faculty will introduce, develop and deliver new course material (whole or only part of a 
course) utilizing different pedagogical approaches, such as active-learning methods and the use of technology in the 
classroom and online.
Faculty construct the atmosphere and tone of the classroom. Positive classroom environments that develop authentic 
learning can drive more opportunities for students to confidently connect with content, their peers and their faculty. The 
University will continue to build excellence in teaching and learning through the advancement of innovative methodologies 
in teaching initiatives that promote creative and critical thinking. Teaching methods and interaction between students 
and faculty members will include flipped classes, and blended environments to encourage students to read and prepare 
for future classes. The use of the library and library resources will be encouraged. A peer review process will be developed 
with specific criteria and standards.   
The criteria for assessing and evaluating faculties and staff for recognition and awards will be developed at the University 
level. With this approach, the process for recognizing faculty and quality of the outcomes will positively raise the level of 
teaching and learning at the University. 
A critical initiative will include a review of the existing academic programs to confirm their viability and relevance to 
society and the twenty-first century job market. Each department and college will review their academic programs with 
a view of recommending measures for improving the competitiveness and sustainability of their programs. 
Develop new programs to strengthen the academic program portfolio of the University of Sharjah and meet the needs of 
the twenty-first century job market. For our programs to be relevant and competitive, assessments and coordination with 
the Ministry of Education will be critical. For the program accreditation process to be effective, collaboration among 
different units at the University will also be encouraged and strengthened. We will also encourage the development of 
exchange and joint international programs. This initiative has been designed to support the implementation and integration of research into teaching and learning 
across the University of Sharjah. Effective management and continuous assessment will ensure effective integration of 
research in the undergraduate academic programs through good collaboration and communication between the various 
colleges and institutes.6.2 Develop and support innovative teaching methodologies and 
course design and delivery.
6.3 Review, develop and accredit academic programs to meet the 21st 
century job market.Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Classroom observations completed.
Critical implementation of new teaching 
methodologies, to include the use of 
blended and distance learning approaches.% of Teaching units utilizing blended learning.
% of overall satisfaction with teaching units experience.
% of undergraduate teaching units requiring research activities.
 Develop and support innovative teaching methodologies and course design and delivery.6.4.1 Faculty professional development, workshops, and support services6.3.3 College of Computing and Informatics
6.3.4 Sharjah Academy for Astronomy, Space Sciences and Technology 
To strengthen the strategic goals of the University, efforts to support faculty and staff professional development activities 
need to be intensified. Thus, the Institute of Leadership in Higher Education will organize a range of ongoing professional 
development workshops, to support the personal endeavors of faculty, staff and graduate students. Expert knowledge 
and skills of faculty and staff will be sharpened through participation in these development activities. Student learning 
and campus-life experiences will also be enhanced.
Through professional development training, faculty, staff and graduate students will develop current expert knowledge 
and skills for effective teaching and learning. Emirati graduate students will strengthen their leadership and transferrable 
skills needed to further develop the Emiratization policy of the UAE government.The College of Computing and Informatics will move forward in the direction of modern trends in computing and 
technological innovation. This will foster the achievement of many scientific and academic goals through the integration 
of academic programs and employing them to bridge the gap between theoretical progress and practical applications, as 
well as enhance the experience of students to apply modern computing in solving academic and practical problems.
The academy has transformed from an institution and will establish itself as a premier research and educational resource 
specializing in astronomy, space science and technology. Providing valuable resources for the UAE and beyond, the 
academy will become the primary source of reference for astronomers and scientists globally.
6.4 Strengthen the pedagogical knowledge and skills of faculty 
members.Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% of internally reviewed academic programs.Critical review of academic programs 
to ensure the university meets student 
educational needs for the 21st century 
job market, and university location/
international accreditation.% of eligible academic programs achieving international accreditation.
% of nationally accredited programs implemented (within one year of receiving initial 
accreditation)
% of nationally accredited academic programs
Key Performance Indicators: Value Proposition
% Satisfaction with faculty professional development.
Key pedagogical professional development 
to prepare faculty for the operation, 
application and advancement of classroom 
technology environments.Number of courses and workshops delivered.
Number of participants.
Number of courses utilizing newly introduced teaching and learning 
methodologies.
Average number of hours for professional development, per faculty.
% of overall satisfaction with teaching units experiance.Strengthen the pedagogical knowledge and skills of faculty members.Review, develop and accredit academic programs to meet the 21st century job market.
54 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024  | 55
Roadmap
Strategy
2019 - 2024International 
Center for 
Theoretical 
Physics (ICTP) Institute of 
Leadership in 
Higher Education 
Improve University 
branding and 
internationalizationComplete 
establishment of 
new research 
building with 
additional 
research 
laboratories
Classroom 
environment 
initiative
Agile 
Governance and 
Operating Model 
Enhancing the 
space exhibitions 
for visually impaired 
peopleQ4 
2019
Q1
2020
Q2
2024
Q4 2019  
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
College of 
Computing and 
Informatics Q3 2019
Sharjah Oasis in 
Research, 
Technology and 
InnovationQ2 2024Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Laboratory 
environment 
initiative  Human 
Resources 
Transformation  Professional 
development for 
Government of 
Sharjah EmployeesEmirati Scientists, 
Researchers and 
Educators 
Improve the 
students 
experience on 
campus
Faculty 
Professional 
Development Enabling the Smart 
Campus - Data 
Quality and 
Information Enabling the 
Digital CampusEnabling the 
Digital 
Classroom 
and Learning 
Spaces 
Development of 
Policies and 
Procedures 
Sharjah Academy 
for Astronomy, 
Space Sciences & 
TechnologyCareer 
Success 
CenterInnovation and 
Entrepreneurship 
Hubs 
Establish a Drug 
Development and 
Diagnostic Center Establish an 
online grants 
management 
system
Quality Charter 
and Service 
ExcellenceQ1
2020Q2
2020
Q2
2021Q2
2022Q4
2023Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2022Q4 2019 -
Q3 2024
Q4 2019  
Q1 
2020  
Q1 
2020  
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Q4 2019 -  
Q3 2024
Internal 
Communications Q2 2020Transformation 
Management 
Office Q4 2019
Q3 2021
Khorfakkan 
University 
56 | University of Sharjah | Strategy 2019 - 2024 
The University of Sharjah 
would like to recognise, and 
extend deep appreciation to 
His Highness Sheikh  
Dr. Sultan Bin Mohammad 
Al Qasimi Member of the 
Supreme Council, Ruler of 
Sharjah and President of the 
University of Sharjah, Board 
of Trustees, Chancellor, Vice 
Chancellors, Deans, Faculty 
Members, Directors, and 
Members of the staff for 
their support and 
contribution in developing 
the University of Sharjah 
Strategy 2019 - 2024. Special 
appreciation goes to the 
Strategic Champion 
Committees for their work in 
developing the strategic 
objectives and initiatives, as 
well as championing the 
strategy.

