Introduction  
The University of Hong Kong’s original mission was to be the English -speaking university 
for China. As we stride forward into our second century, this mission is still relevant but the 
context has radically changed, is still changing and will remain dynamic and unpredictable 
for the foreseeable future. We will need to be more global in our outlook in all our activities, 
more nimble a nd adaptable than before, more ambitious and “can -do” than risk -averse and 
conservative, more solution -orientated than problem -orientated, and more proactive in our 
communications and branding. We will adopt the characteristics of the world’s top 
universit ies, which include excellence in all aspects of teaching, research and knowledge 
exchange; a global, not merely local or regional, perspective; and meaningful collaborations 
with premier global universities, and industrial and charitable partners. We will also secure 
resources with robust risk -management protocols so that risks, perceived or real, do not stifle 
development; and all will be underpinned by modern, innovative and flexible enabling 
platforms to ensure optimal delivery.  
  
The University of Hong Kong is a great university. It has much to be proud of in its history, 
its strong and supportive alumni base, its current students and staff and its spectacular 
facilities, but it can be greater. Greater in terms of international reputation and the quality  of 
its graduates, greater in terms of impact on society, greater in terms of scope of excellence 
and range of influence. The University of Hong Kong can join the world’s greatest 
universities and this document sets out a manifesto for taking us there.  
Mission 
The University of Hong Kong’s highest priorities are to create opportunities for the very best 
academic talents to excel and to advance human knowledge to the benefit of society. To 
enable these, the University will provide a world -class, intellectual  environment in which all 
its members are recognised and rewarded for what they contribute and achieve. In this way, 
the University will seek to serve the needs of Hong Kong, the wider region and the rest of the 
world.  
Defining characteristics  
The University will be defined by our commitment to excellence, the high -quality 
opportunities we create and our global outlook from our distinctive position in Asia. Through 
our teaching, research and service, creating social, cultura l and economic impact will be the 
goals driving everything we do. Respect for academic success will guide and shape the work 
of our professional services. Optimism, willingness to try new things and risk -taking will 
prevail over caution, cut -backs and acad emic conservatism.  
  
We share the characteristics of our international peers in our commitment to the core values 
of academic freedom and our respect for academic success. As an institution of higher 
learning and compass for morality and integrity in the c ommunity, we will embrace equality, 
ethics, inclusivity, diversity and transparency in all that we do, and will aspire to the highest 
standards of corporate and academic governance.  
  
The principles of sustainability will guide our planning and development  at every level. We 
will respond purposefully to the challenges identified by the United Nations through the 
Sustainable Development Goals, and play our part in addressing the issues of inequality, 
health, education, disaster prevention, poverty, environme nt and well -being identified therein. 
We are superbly placed to lead a cross -cultural and civilisational dialogue.  
  
Collectively, our defining characteristics will form a powerful identity through which the 
University can build on its heritage and renew i ts purpose over the next decade in aspiring to 
be one of the greatest universities in the world.  
Asia’s Global University  
The University of Hong Kong, as an English -medium, research -led, comprehensive 
university (the only one in China), provides world -class, campus -based education in a wide 
range of academic disciplines to outstanding students. The University is situated in a 
geographically and culturally unique part of China and has historically sat at the gateway 
between East and West, pursuing teaching a nd research which enhance the understanding of 
Asia in a comparative way. We now need to develop innovative approaches to tackling 
current Asian and global issues. The Belt and Road Initiative for the future development of 
China’s relationship with the res t of the world provides wonderful opportunities for us to 
collaborate with partners in mainland China and elsewhere in Asia. We have a strong 
international focus but also a distinct Asian perspective, and the University is recognised by 
the international c ommunity for its high -quality talents, assets and skills. Our campus reflects 
both the vibrancy and plurality of Hong Kong and the diverse and cosmopolitan nature of a 
modern, progressive Asian society. Our programmes are benchmarked against leading global  
institutions and are internationally competitive. We are committed to training and nurturing 
future leaders and talents equipped to tackle the grand challenges of a rapidly changing 
world.  
  
Our deep connections with strategic partners all over the world coupled with our distinct 
advantages in Greater China provide exceptional opportunities for students and staff to make 
meaningful contributions to the building of knowledge and the advancement of society. By so 
doing, not only are we supporting student and  staff engagement with the global community, 
we are training them to apply their skills and talents effectively, and to be successful 
anywhere in today’s increasingly globalised society.  
Our 3+1 Is: Internationalisation  
Innovation  
Interdisciplinarity  
IMPACT  
 
Internationalisation  
To promote global citizenship and competitive ness, we plan to provide all students with at 
least one mainland China and one overseas learning opportunity by 2022.  
Innovation  
Is there life out there? Are we alone? We wish to continue encouraging critical questioning 
and thinking to innovate for change and social good.  
Interdisciplinarity  
By bringing together different and divergent minds, we aim to drive and catalyse new ways 
of thinking, new ideas and concepts and new w ays of doing things.  
Impact  
From contributing to finding cures for the world’s greatest diseases, promoting oral hygiene 
in developing countries, to rebuilding homes in China, our aim is to embed impact into all of 
our academic and educational outcomes.  
Our Three Pillars  
Our commitment to being Asia’s Global University is supported by three pillars,  
which provide the framework for our strategy.  
Teaching and Learning  
 
In the first pillar, our curriculum provides students with a total learning experience, 
combining both disciplinary specialisation and broad -based engagement with current and 
global issues. Students will be exposed to in novative approaches to teaching and learning, 
which will be supported by upgraded infrastructure. Our intention by the end of the present 
decade is to establish The University of Hong Kong as one of the world’s most progressive 
and dynamic universities for  teaching and learning, as well as one which makes a positive 
and tangible impact on society.  
Internationalisation  
We will ensure that the education we provide is among the most international available 
anywhere in the world by further developing our curric ula and our vibrant, cosmopolitan 
campus, nurturing globally -minded thinkers and leaders, and providing space and opportunity 
for students to gain exceptional learning experiences outside Hong Kong. We will:  
• expand student and staff diversity;  
• promote diversity awareness and empowerment;  
• extend opportunities for cross -cultural encounters, particularly amongst students;  
• deepen multicultural components of campus life;  
• increase opportunities for students to gain learning experiences in mainland China  and 
overseas; and  
• focus on quality in developing our more successful and mature internationalisation 
programmes.  
Innovation  
In order to equip our graduates to tackle grand global challenges, we will develop innovative 
and forward -thinking talents, and invest in an enabling environment where creativity, 
experimentation and calculated risk -taking are prized and harnessed. We will:  
• make full use of information technology to s upport our teaching and learning strategies in 
general and our e -learning strategy in particular;  
• create an innovation and entrepreneurship centre where students, alumni and friends of the 
University can meet to explore new ideas and pursue joint project s; 
• partner with innovative organisations to create opportunities for students to gain exposure to 
cutting -edge experience in both the commercial and non -commercial sectors; and  
• empower students, whether individually or in groups, to design and implemen t their own 
innovative off -campus learning programmes.  
 
Interdisciplinarity  
The ever -growing interconnectedness of ideas, fields and industries in the g lobal environment 
is placing demands on universities to produce graduates able to adapt swiftly, seamlessly and 
effectively to often unpredictable situations. We will:  
• create new spaces in the curriculum within which interdisicplinary and multidisciplina ry 
activities can emerge;  
• continue to invest in interdisciplinary programme and curriculum development; and  
• take forward our pioneering undergraduate Common Core Curriculum to deepen still 
further students’ exposure to interdisciplinary modes of teachi ng and learning.  
Impact  
Making a positive impact on society is central to our mission, as is our commitment to 
knowledge exchange. For many years we have created opportunities for our students and staff 
to make a difference locally, regionally and globally . Now, we are seeking to take our many 
efforts to the next stage so that every student has opportunities for personal development, 
improved language skills and experience outside their comfort zone. Via partnerships with 
industry, businesses and other empl oyers, charities and non -governmental organisations, we 
will facilitate internships, work placements, experiential learning and charity work locally 
and all over the world. We will:  
• further embed social responsibility into our curriculum to ensure that o ur students can better 
serve society and meet its growing needs;  
• create additional pathways for students to learn in mainland China and overseas that are 
designed explicitly to deliver measurable social gain; and  
• promote student innovation on campus an d in the larger society to stimulate positive social 
change.  
Research and Knowledge Exchange  
The strategic intention for our second and third pillars is to be a world -class global university 
with world -leading research in critical areas through knowledge c reation, translation, 
realisation and impact.  
 
Internationalisation  
Strategic collaboration and partnership, especially cross -institution and cross -continent, 
provide the richest sources for global talents and out -of-the-box ideas, and the inherent 
knowledge infusion and cross -fertilisation of intellectual wisdom will fuel  this 
interconnecting world of communities. The University believes that strategic collaboration 
will sharpen our role in the community and maximise our value in the international academic 
community. Adopting a dual -strategy in collaborative partnership: p ublic -public and public -
private (PPP), we will:  
• embark on outcomes -based public -public partnership with municipal bodies serving the 
public interest (e.g. health, energy, environment, housing, crime, security, etc.), and public -
private partnership typifi ed by enterprise -centred collaboration with industry and private 
corporations;  
• strengthen strategic cross -institutional collaboration to enhance both the breadth and width 
of our research, thus directly strengthening the competitiveness of HKU in public and private 
funding;  
• create new funding sources from public and private agencies as well as tapping into the rich 
pool of research funding across the world;  
• build on collaborative PPPs to tap into new sources of funding and talents, and connect the 
academic circle to the world of business, entrepreneurs and philanthropists; and  
• strengthen our international network through research partnership and collaboration, 
strategic alliance, flagship conferences and symposia, and joint benchmarking and evaluatio n 
exercises.  
Innovation  
Modern universities need to capitalise upon the rich opportunities arising from the emerging 
world of open innovation to utilise the best minds coupled with the ability to harness 
knowledge in a strongly collaborative culture. The U niversity of Hong Kong intends to thrive 
in this new world, integrating Western and Eastern research scholarship. We will:  
• make purposeful advances in translational research to enable HKU to be a driving force in 
the emerging world of open innovation;  
• collaborate with and help develop public bodies, private corporations and global 
organisations; and  
• recognise techno -preneurship and entrepreneurship as important pu rsuits that celebrate not 
only academic excellence and quality, but also the spirit of creation and expedition.  
Interdisciplinarity  
Research must provide valuable and unparalleled educational opportunities for our scholars, 
equipping them with the knowledg e and intellectual attributes needed for the inherently 
interdisciplinary and increasingly complex world of tomorrow. Central to our research 
strategy is the introduction of complementary interdisciplinary initiatives that draw diverse 
subject expertises i nto a cross -domain platform on which new knowledge is created and 
harnessed under a common vision. We will:  
• strengthen and consolidate our strategic research themes with the aim of developing into an 
internationally -leading knowledge hub and capability c entre;  
• sustain themes that are internationally leading, and in areas of local and global significance;  
• grow areas that attract competitive funding, especially from non -traditional sources;  
• incubate areas that demonstrate strong commercial potential o r address societal needs;  
• support areas that are driven by frontier researchers or stars -in-the-making;  
• invest in niche areas that can evolve as key drivers in our mainland China and international 
engagement and collaboration;  
• develop strategies for integrating the research themes and creating room for the growth of 
new areas;  
• ensure that research has clearly articulated outcomes and execution strategies; and  
• strengthen our platform for international collaboration and partnership.  
Impact  
All key i nternational, innovative and interdisciplinary initiatives must converge towards the 
creation of impact, measured both by quality and outcome, as well as value and benefit. We 
will make a paradigm shift to focus on and reward internationally leading academ ic outputs, 
as well as research innovations that benefit communities and transform global technologies. 
The quality and impact of our research will be measured not only by conventional academic 
metrics, but also by the tangible benefits we bring to the glo bal as well as local, mainland 
China and broader Asian communities. There will be a shift from activity to value, from 
output to outcome, and from strength to leadership. Through our partnership engagement and 
research endeavors, we aspire to lead the acad emic world and add transformational value to 
our society. We will:  
• provide more opportunities for outcomes -driven translational and transformational research;  
• support research that transcends intellectual output to meeting an innovative outcome that 
has value and impact, and driven by societal needs or enterprise;  
• deliver demonstrable and significant outcomes to our social communities and the 
technological world through research, innovation and enterprise development; and  
• educate, nurture and develo p the next generation of academic scholars, eminent 
professionals, research pioneers and society leaders.  
 
Our Enabling  
Platform  
 
Our enabling platform will provide the professional and operational support required to fulfil 
our ambitious agenda for the next decade.  
  
We recognise that in order to enhance our academic success and provide an environment 
which will suppor t innovation and impact, we will need to modernise and reform our 
professional and administrative services, embedding a risk -management -based approach. 
This will mean ensuring that our remuneration packages are internationally competitive, that 
all our sta ff are respected for who they are, rewarded for what they do, and given access to 
opportunities to develop and excel. We will enhance our staff review and development 
processes to ensure that they achieve the twin goals of allowing every member of staff to  
achieve their full potential whilst ensuring that individuals’ needs and wishes are aligned with 
those of the University.  
Human resources  
We will:  
• ensure that our remuneration packages are sufficiently competitive to support the 
recruitment and retention of high calibre staff in an international market;  
• ensure a smooth transition to Hong Kong for staff recruited from overseas. This will include 
enhanced support in respect of immigration fo rmalities, housing and school arrangements;  
• develop an increasingly diverse staffing profile through both recruitment and career 
development. In particular, we will ensure that all departments employ strategies so as to 
enable women to better excel;  
• provide a performance management system that fosters and rewards performance, motivates 
staff and aligns their efforts with University objectives;  
• strengthen support arrangements for all groups of staff, including courses for personal and 
professional deve lopment, mentoring and the use of regular opportunities to review progress 
and promote career development; and  
• enhance our leadership and management capability and introduce effective succession 
planning.  
 
Financial reforms  
We will:  
• improve our financial sustainability through increasing income generation and improved 
efficiency in planning and prioritisation of resou rce application in alignment with University 
strategic objectives;  
• increase funding from non -government sources and generate a sufficient recurrent surplus;  
• embed a more coherent approach to budget setting and monitoring across faculties, 
departments a nd services, looking to reduce overheads and enhance efficiency. Resources 
that are associated with inefficient, ineffective or outmoded programmes will be redeployed 
towards areas of strategic priority;  
• review the ways in which we allocate resources and  charge costs;  
• review the level of investment in administrative services and professional services; and  
• enhance our earned income revenues from all sources.  
 
Expenditure  
In order to effectively maintain recurrent and capital expenditure at a level that secures the 
University’s international competitiveness, we will strengthen and diversify our revenues to 
generate an annual surplus.  
Estates  
We will also invest in our estate to support our academic priorities and new initiatives, and to 
facilitate new or improved ways of working or increased efficiencies. We will:  
• acquire and develop new space to meet our academic ambitions;  
• invest in the es tate where this will facilitate new or improved ways of working, increased 
efficiencies, and improved opportunities for interdisciplinary working;  
• implement a more proactive and prioritised system of capital allocation;  
• review the way in which we manag e our property assets, and explore a new model for 
facilities management that ensures greater accountability in the use and allocation of space;  
• strengthen the control of overseas building developments;  
• balance capital spending on refurbishing, renewin g and replacing the existing estates with 
the delivery of new buildings to meet research, education and knowledge exchange needs; 
and 
• develop a Property Asset Health Policy and Framework and develop a programme that 
ensures the required amount of spendin g on life cycle replacement and repairs/maintenance 
needed to keep the assets in the necessary condition for the essential quality of our academic, 
research, social and cultural facilities.  
 
Information technology  
We will:  
• invest in information technologies that enhance the capacity of HKU’s academic 
communities to collaborate with each other and with global partners, and that support the 
student experience;  
• provide professional support, consistent processes and the appropriate equipment to meet 
the digital needs of our  staff and students;  
• continue to develop flexible, technology -enhanced teaching and learning spaces, and to 
support the operations of a highly resilient, secure and efficient electronic environment for 
study and work;  
• enhance the computing facilities a vailable to support research, in particular by involvement 
in regional and national resource centres, by the provision of infrastructure for high -
performance computing and efficient data management, by developing and deploying tools 
for collaborative worki ng, and by fostering cooperative partnerships with international 
network and computing consortia on global research interests;  
• implement robust and up -to-date systems in the cloud era with minimum necessary 
functionality to support all aspects of the stu dent experience in a cost effective way;  
• introduce new physical and wireless networking that will allow high -bandwidth, device -
neutral and highly resilient communications capabilities, and introduce applications reaping 
the benefits of the latest network  advancements and Internet innovations for enabling 
innovations in teaching, learning, research and administration; and  
• employ the best management practices in information technology to enhance the 
University’s administrative and professional services.  
Alumni relations  
Our objectives for alumni relations reflect the University’s overarching priority to develop a 
global network and to promote international collaborations, including a proactive and 
systematic engagement of a growing donor community and alum ni in Hong Kong, mainland 
China and overseas. We will:  
• expand and strengthen our relationship with our alumni networks through a streamlined 
database management system;  
• focus our fundraising and outreach efforts on areas that advance the strategic goal s of the 
University;  
• identify new opportunities to grow our base by engaging untapped philanthropic potential 
locally and worldwide in support of key University initiatives; and  
• strengthen our HKU ambassador scheme by actively involving our alumni and other 
members of the HKU family.  
Communications and branding  
Communication with our alumni, donors, partners and key stakeholders to enhance their 
awareness of the major developments of the University is an absolute priority. Building on 
our local, regiona l and international connections and expertise, we will:  
• strengthen media relations through proactive and positive engagement with our media 
partners;  
• heighten visibility of the HKU brand by showcasing our advances in international standing; 
and 
• work towards building a strong and sustainable international reputation, powered by our 
aspirations to be Asia’s Global University.  
The HKU Capital Campaign  
 
For over one hundred years, The University of Hong Kong has been home to exceptional 
thinkers, leaders and trailblazers, all enjoying the freedom to explore their ideas, resources to 
realise them, and the recognition to reward their  contributions. We are passionate about 
shaping the future of education so that we can continue to make positive and powerful 
changes in our world. And providing the best academic environment is critical to our mission 
to nurturing talent so that ever grea ter achievements and sustainable impact can be made.  
  
In supporting the academic ambitions expressed in our 3+1 Is, as well as meeting our 
aspirations to be Asia’s Global University, we will embark on a major capital campaign with 
local, regional and inte rnational donors that aims to raise HKD10 billion within the next 
decade.  
  
The University of Hong Kong’s vision for 2016 -2025 is to become Asia’s Global University. 
Together with philanthropic support from our existing and new donors, we will capitalise on 
our skills, passion and commitment to work towards making this happen.  
 
 
