31
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
Table of contents
1   Introduction   32
2  Development through targeted profiling 33
3   Twelve strategic guidelines 35
 3.1  Research and Innovation  35
 3.2  Teaching  35
 3.3  Continuing education 36
 3.4  Bi- and multilingualism   37
 3.5  Advancement of young researchers  37
 3.6  Staff development and support  38
 3.7  Equal opportunity and diversity 38
 3.8  Cooperation and internationalisation   38
 3.9  Dialogue with society  39
 3.10  Sustainability   39
 3.11  Infrastructure and core facilities  40
 3.12  Governance and quality assurance  40
4   Financial policy  41
5   Implementation of the strategy   41

32
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
1 Introduction
At the University of Fribourg, founded in 1889, studying, 
teaching and research are conducted in five faculties. 
These are the Faculty of Theology; the Faculty of Law; the 
Faculty of Management, Economics and Social Scienc -
es; the Faculty of Humanities and the Faculty of Sciences 
and Medicine. Numerous interdisciplinary institutes and 
centres of competence exist as well. Located on the lan -
guage border between the German- and French-speak -
ing areas of Switzerland, the University of Fribourg is well 
established in the Swiss university landscape at present. 
Thanks to its geographical location, the university city of 
Fribourg forms a bridge between the administrative cen -
tre of Bern and the economic area of the Lake Geneva re -
gion. It welcomes over 10,000 students, mainly from other 
Swiss cantons and from abroad, at the Bachelor, Master 
and Doctorate levels, and offers them an attractive envi -
ronment. More than 270 professors, together with lectur -
ers and research associates, provide first-class, personal 
support and are active in research and continuing edu -
cation. Close communication between university teachers 
and students is emphasised in the firm belief that this is 
the way to optimally promote the development of each in -
dividual. In research, the University of Fribourg enjoys an 
excellent reputation due to its tradition as a comprehen -
sive university, its unique bilingual nature and its numer -
ous centres of excellence. The strengths and potential of 
the University of Fribourg extend across all its faculties, 
each of which has developed a specific profile as well as 
interdisciplinary activities and projects. Because of this 
strong position and its significant size relative to the sur -
rounding canton, it shapes the cultural and economic life 
of both city and canton. In doing so, it serves a crucial 
political and public function in their positioning as well.  
The University of Fribourg intends to take advantage of cur -
rent developments in the Swiss and European higher edu -
cation landscape as well as in society in order to position 
itself even more strongly and visibly over the next ten years 
as an excellent research and education institution both na -
tionally and internationally. In particular, the digital trans -
formation, the continuing internationalisation in education 
and research, the sustained economic, social and ecolog -
ical development (compare the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDG) of the United Nations), the implementation of 
equality and equal opportunities as well as the securing of social cohesion are recognised as drivers, challenges and 
opportunities for its future development. The University 
of Fribourg will continue to make a decisive contribution 
to managing the increasing complexity of these and other 
social issues, providing answers to the way in which the 
ever-changing political, economic and social situation will 
be shaped, notably in the interests of the City and Can -
ton of Fribourg. In its teaching, it aims to ensure that its 
students can establish themselves successfully in the long 
term, regardless of the sometimes rapid change in job pro -
files, and that they will be able to commit themselves to 
the future-oriented development of society. Because of 
its role as a cultural bridge between language cultures, its 
cultivation of proximity and its numerous interdisciplinary  
centres of competence and its potential, the University 
of Fribourg is ideally placed to make an important con -
tribution to education, training and research. In doing  
so, it seeks to consolidate its national and international 
orientation and – in conjunction with this – to moderate -
ly increase its student numbers, paying particular atten -
tion to maintaining the balance between their (originary)  
language groups. 
The University of Fribourg’s “Strategy 2030” plan is 
oriented along three main axes:  
 As a modern, committed and internationally networked 
comprehensive university, the University of Fribourg 
is an outstanding, interdisciplinary education and re -
search institution in the Humboldt tradition of organi -
cally combining research and teaching  and offers excel -
lent development and career opportunities. 
 The University of Fribourg is characterised by its bilin -
gualism and multilingualism, its humanistic-ethical ap -
proach and numerous widely recognised key areas of 
expertise.
 In its operations, the University of Fribourg pays par -
ticular attention to sustainability, equal opportunities 
and diversity, staff support and development as well as 
governance and quality assurance.
The present strategy has been developed in close con -
sultation with all stakeholders inside and outside of the 
33
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
university and is the result of two years of deliberation. 
The present strategic plan fulfils the University of Fri -
bourg’s legal obligation under Art. 9 § 1 of the University 
Act of 19 November 1997 to regularly draw up a strategic 
plan with a planning outlook of ten years. This strategy 
will be augmented and/or implemented via existing or yet 
to be developed topic-specific strategies and policies re -
garding areas such as quality assurance, sustainability, 
libraries or multilingualism. 
2  Development through targeted 
profiling
As a comprehensive university, the University of Fribourg 
offers a broad spectrum of subjects and provides students 
with a comprehensive, cross-disciplinary choice of cours -
es. This diversity, combined with along-standing practice 
of inter-faculty exchange based on close proximity, forms 
an excellent basis for defining the university’s distinction, 
not only in subject-specific disciplines, but also in inter- 
and transdisciplinary research and teaching. As a result, 
all faculties have already established numerous develop -
ment priorities with international visibility that give the 
University of Fribourg its special profile. 
The University of Fribourg intends to further strengthen, 
augment and expand these nationally and internationally 
recognised areas of teaching and research with a view to 
their further development. At the same time, it will prof -
it from new opportunities to raise its profile. Accordingly, 
building on its strengths, the University of Fribourg seeks 
to define and pursue development priorities while appro -
priately maintaining and fostering the teaching and re -
search activities in the fundamental subject areas which 
form the basis for this development. 
In addition to its outstanding academic track record, the 
unique position of the university and its traditional strengths 
provide a solid basis for further refining its profile. First of 
all, there are the specific disciplinary key areas or special 
study and research key areas (including teacher training, 
where the University of Fribourg has a highly innovative  and attractive programme) and then the particular value 
attached to interdisciplinarity. Further important factors 
are, in particular, the humanistic-ethical tradition and the 
human-centred approach associated with it, the Universi -
ty of Fribourg’s bridge-building capability deriving from its 
bilingualism (which is also evidenced in the above-aver -
age number of extra-cantonal students), the internation -
alism that has played a significant role since the founding 
of the university, as well as the ever-present proximity 
both among teachers and students and within the com -
munity of researchers, which – together with the culture 
of communication, transparency and participation that 
has developed within the university community – is par -
ticularly advantageous to interdisciplinary endeavours. 
The University of Fribourg is convinced that meeting the 
challenges of society requires networked, interdiscipli -
nary approaches. Cognizant of the fact that high-quality, 
discipline-specific research and teaching are indispensa -
ble for interdisciplinary scholarship, it therefore intends 
to promote inter- and transdisciplinarity in a targeted 
manner and set corresponding developmental priorities 
while recognising that research initiatives are primarily 
initiated “bottom up”, but can still be effectively promot -
ed by management within the framework of the profiling 
strategy. In its profiling, the University of Fribourg intends  
to take the needs of the various stakeholders into account 
and thus fulfil its responsibility towards government, 
business and the public in its teaching and research.
Towards this end and building on its tradition and existing 
centres of excellence, the University of Fribourg intends to 
prioritise its development along three major axes: 
 The first is to consolidate or expand and further develop 
its already existing “beacons” . For example, the University  The University of Fribourg  
is convinced that meeting the 
challenges of society requires 
networked, interdisciplinary 
approaches.
34
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
of Fribourg is an international leader in the field of 
materials science with its interdisciplinary research in 
the field of nanomaterials and the biomedical scienc -
es. Its research area “Bio-inspired Materials” is recog -
nised as a National Centre of Competence in Research 
(NCCR). However, other areas in which the University 
of Fribourg has particular expertise are also to be con -
sistently maintained and further developed, such as 
in the field of the organisation of political entities, for 
which centres of excellence on federalism or “Europe” 
already exist. 
 In particular through targeted networking of already 
existing activities and competences, the formation 
of (interdisciplinary) centres of excellence in select -
ed additional areas is also to be promoted. A prime 
example would be a key area in the field of nutrition 
(in view of the university’s nationally and internation -
ally recognised research achievements in biology and 
psychology, its specialisation in family medicine as 
well as its Botanical Garden, and in view of possible 
synergies with other partners) and a pooling of its di -
verse competences in the field of history, including 
the “Bible&Orient”  museum, the only one of its kind in 
the world.
 Finally, the University of Fribourg is looking to strength -
en its standing as an institution in which humanis -
tic-ethical aspects are especially promoted both within 
and across all disciplines, and to position itself here as 
a national and international reference point. Thanks to 
this tradition, the University of Fribourg is in an excellent 
position to make substantial contributions to under -
standing the varied interactions between human beings 
and their environment and to the development of new, 
innovative approaches to solving urgent and complex 
social questions and issues, especially in the areas of 
community and social cohesion, sustainability and dig -
italisation. To this end, it intends to strengthen and fur -
ther develop the already existing centres that address 
questions surrounding humanity and the environment, 
digitalisation and society, ethics, the coexistence of dif -
ferent religions and cultures in increasingly fragmented 
societies, and the understanding of linguistic cultures 
and multilingualism. These and other key areas for the university as a whole 
are to be specified in an appropriate manner in the draw -
ing up of faculty strategies, in particular within the frame -
work of multiyear planning, augmented by further sub -
ject-specific and interdisciplinary key areas. Overall, the 
University of Fribourg, building on its existing disciplinary 
and interdisciplinary strengths and special characteris -
tics, intends to apply this approach in the next few years 
to promoting and further developing existing key areas 
on the one hand and, on the other, highlighting new ones, 
thereby further sharpening its particular profile – par -
ticularly against the background of its humanistic-ethi -
cal tradition and its bridging function – in the national 
but also international context, and to position itself even 
more clearly in certain areas in the higher education and 
research landscape.
35
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
3  Twelve strategic guidelines 
The University of Fribourg is unwaveringly committed 
to quality and excellence in all areas. It puts this before 
quantitative growth, even while striving to raise student 
numbers. It aims to secure and further accentuate its pro -
file as a public university. Accordingly, research-based, 
internationally competitive theoretical ideas are appro -
priately combined with the transmission of practical skills. 
The knowledge created thus is made available to govern -
ment, business and the public, whose needs are identified 
via dialogue. This is also about obtaining new insights and 
direction from government, business and the public as to 
current or future areas of research. At the same time, it is 
a matter of fostering the specific role of the university as 
an institution in which knowledge is advanced and taught 
free of vested interests and political requirements. Study -
ing at the University of Fribourg should enable students to 
successfully face new challenges thanks to the specialised 
knowledge they have acquired and their ability to think 
independently and critically, and so to assume their re -
sponsibilities in society. Aware that excellence and quality 
are created by people, the University of Fribourg ensures 
and promotes its attractiveness to excellent established 
researchers, promising younger researchers, talented stu -
dents as well as highly qualified administrative and tech -
nical staff. It consistently uses existing potential. It offers 
the members of the university community an attractive 
and modern environment. Openness and permanent ex -
change at regional, national and international level, both in 
scholarship and administration, is part of the University of 
Fribourg’s identity. In the areas of sustainability and equal 
opportunities, as well as in the use of the opportunities 
arising from digital transformation, the University of Fri -
bourg sees its place in the Canton as a central, formative 
actor that enjoys an outstanding position in these areas in 
the national as well as international environment. 
Against the background of this claim and with a view to 
realising the profile outlined in Chapter 2, the University of 
Fribourg sets out the following strategic guidelines.  
3.1  Research and Innovation
The University of Fribourg seeks to demand and promote 
cultures of excellence and innovation by means of concrete 
incentives. It regards attractive framework conditions  
for researchers and an innovative environment as central prerequisites for high-quality, open-ended research. The 
University of Fribourg promotes academic freedom in all 
its diversity. It creates, promotes and safeguards free -
dom for critical and independent thought, characterised 
by personal responsibility, which meets the needs of re -
searchers’ creativity. It leaves room for the unconvention -
al, unforeseen and creative, thus preparing the ground for 
innovation. The University of Fribourg promotes and sup -
ports entrepreneurial thinking and innovative action, both 
among students and lecturers as well as researchers. In 
this way, the specific positioning of the University of Fri -
bourg as a centre of innovation in teaching and research 
is strengthened and the relevant needs of government, 
business and the public are taken into account. To this 
end, the university continues expanding its collaboration 
with other universities and universities of applied scienc -
es and makes use of existing synergies. 
In addition, the University of Fribourg is committed to 
the principle of open science, in cooperation and coor -
dination with other institutions on the basis of the corre -
sponding national strategies. It also consistently fosters a 
multilingual culture in research and promotes appropriate 
consideration of ethical issues in all disciplines. 
Through its quality-oriented and transparent appointment 
procedures and a consistent selection of young research -
ers, the University of Fribourg continues to strengthen its 
position as an attractive and high-quality centre of re -
search. It considers a transparent promotion system and 
the increased use of tenure-track appointments to be im -
portant incentives and motivation factors, especially for 
young researchers. 
By using the possibilities presented by digital transforma -
tion, the University of Fribourg aims to limit the adminis -
trative burden on researchers. To this end, it is expanding 
support for researchers, centralising certain tasks and 
standardising and simplifying procedures. 
3.2  Teaching 
Since the university identifies itself as an institution of 
higher learning committed to the Humboldt tradition of 
the unity of teaching and research, it considers teaching 
based on the results of excellence in research to be an 
36
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
indispensable prerequisite for high-quality academic ed -
ucation. It seeks to guarantee close working relationships 
between students and members of the teaching staff by 
further promoting proximity which is already recognised 
as a particular criterion of quality. This is to be achieved 
through providing attractive spaces to meet and ensur -
ing attractive supervision conditions. At the same time, it 
seeks to permit a certain degree of flexibility in teaching 
methods in view of students’ changing needs and circum -
stances and by utilising digital options. 
The University of Fribourg imparts excellent sub -
ject-specific and methodological skills to its students. 
Broad, cross-disciplinary course offerings enable stu -
dents to develop the capability for networked thinking 
in a bilingual or multilingual environment. The students 
have the ability to produce nuanced written and spoken 
argumentation and analysis. Against the background of 
changing job profiles, the University of Fribourg seeks 
to offer study programmes which, in addition to sub -
ject-specific content and methodology, impart the abil -
ity to think critically, analytically and across disciplines 
while making provision for ethical considerations, ena -
bling students to act independently and to deal with the 
changes associated with digital transformation. In this 
regard, the evaluation-based, continuous further devel -
opment of the study programmes is seen as an essential 
factor for success and attractiveness. In order to pro -
mote networked and interdisciplinary thinking, the Uni -
versity of Fribourg endeavours to offer students a high 
degree of flexibility and access to courses outside their 
primary study areas, combined with the opportunity 
(especially for highly qualified students) to acquire ad -
ditional designated qualifications. As far as possible, it 
seeks to collaborate in this with the diverse educational 
providers both within and outside the canton.  Finally, the University of Fribourg aims to enable students 
and lecturers to further improve the quality of teaching by 
imparting specific knowledge and skills as well as by the 
systematic evaluation of courses, and to take advantage of 
the relevant opportunities offered by digital transformation, 
regardless of their subject areas and through the provision 
of appropriate equipment. In doing so, it takes into account 
the fact that the digitisation of teaching is not merely limited 
to the provision of digital resources, but just as importantly 
involves questions of didactics and – in general – enabling 
competency in networked thinking. At the same time, the 
University of Fribourg is committed to its fundamental char -
acter as a campus university, within the framework of which 
it also and in particular maintains the “analogue exchange” 
which is indispensable for high-quality university teaching.
3.3  Continuing education
The University of Fribourg takes into consideration the 
growing importance and necessity of life-long learning. In 
view of digital transformation, changing job profiles and 
the diverse social challenges characterised by increasing 
complexity and momentum, it intends to further develop 
its wide range of continuing education offerings and thus 
fully assume its responsibility towards society as well as 
its legal obligations. The resulting opportunities are uti -
lised for networking with government, business and the 
public. In doing so, the university ensures the nexus be -
tween teaching and research and practice and meets the 
needs of government, business and society. In particular, it 
is convinced that contact with practice also has a stimulat -
ing and beneficial effect on needs-oriented research and 
teaching that addresses current issues. The University of 
Fribourg regards the high-quality, end-user oriented fulfil -
ment of its continuing education obligations as an impor -
tant element of its national and international influence and 
reputation. Taking advantage of the opportunities afforded 
by digital technology will also allow it to meet the changing 
flexibility and mobility needs of the professional world. 
In addition to subject-specific continuing education, the 
University of Fribourg intends to provide more cross-  
disciplinary   key areas. It considers continuing education 
to be a key factor in meeting the social challenges asso -
ciated with digital transformation and the realisation of 
social and ecological sustainability. The study programmes  
impart the ability to think  
critically, analytically and  
across disciplines.
37
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
The university promotes the expansion of continuing ed -
ucation offerings by the creation of targeted incentives.
3.4  Bi- and multilingualism
The University of Fribourg has a multilingual profile. It 
affirms its commitment to its two traditional languages 
(French/German) as well as to English as an internation -
al language. It also recognises the importance of other 
languages, particularly Italian. It regards its bilingual and 
multilingual profile as a unique attribute of national and 
European importance. Because of the special importance 
it attaches to its French/German bilingualism, it intends to 
strengthen its role as a bridge between linguistic cultures.
The University of Fribourg is aware that its bi- and mul -
tilingualism produces challenges that should not be un -
derestimated, particularly in regard to guaranteeing the 
quality of teaching. It considers it particularly important 
to ensure that learning conditions are attractive to stu -
dents in their first language as well as possibly in their 
second and third languages. To this end, the University of 
Fribourg is developing digital aids and making them avail -
able to students and teachers in order to facilitate the 
transition from one language to another and to contribute 
to the continuing education of teaching staff. Moreover, 
the university is keen to encourage and support students 
and researchers in making even more use of the opportu -
nities offered by bi- and multilingualism, particularly with 
a view to advancing their academic and professional ca -
reers. It promotes the bi- and multilingualism of the aca -
demic community through concrete measures and offers 
and by taking advantage of the opportunities offered by 
digital transformation.
The University of Fribourg regards the imparting of lan -
guage skills, for example in the context of goal- and 
needs-oriented language courses, as an essential ele -
ment for the good functioning of the university, both in 
terms of knowledge of the local languages as well as of 
English as the lingua franca of academic scholarship. 
At the administrative level, the University of Fribourg in -
tends to counteract actual or potential losses of efficiency 
and, as part of its human resources policy, to strengthen 
the recruitment and retention of bi- or multilingual staff. The objectives, guidelines and mechanisms set out above 
will be specified and implemented within the framework 
of the university’s language policy.
3.5  Advancement of young researchers
The University of Fribourg regards the advancement of 
young researchers as a central responsibility. It considers  
them guarantors of Fribourg’s excellence as a research 
institution as well as of Swiss research in general; at the 
same time, it is conscious of the importance that aca -
demic education and training have for government, the 
economy and society. In particular, it fosters the mobil -
ity of young researchers and the availability of excellent 
doctoral programmes. It takes an active part in providing 
attractive and professional prospects for young research -
ers, for example by specifically promoting their early 
scholarly independence and also by providing access to 
contacts such as the Mediation Service. It provides young 
researchers with competencies in the fields of teaching, 
research management and in other skills central to their 
professional lives. 
The University of Fribourg identifies promising young tal -
ents from the moment they enrol as doctoral candidates 
and actively supports them, for example by ensuring op -
timal mentoring, by providing continuous guidance and 
planning regarding career prospects within, as well as be -
yond, the university, by facilitating access to national and 
international networks and by giving them the opportuni -
ty to think and work across disciplines. 
From the outset, for young researchers as well as gener -
ally, the University of Fribourg demands and promotes a 
culture of quality consciousness and personal responsi -
bility. To this end it provides an environment which places 
the individual at its centre and takes into consideration 
the varied characteristics and needs of young research -
ers, especially also in the case of postdocs. With regard 
to the diversification and attractiveness of academic 
careers, the University of Fribourg is reinforcing its at -
tractiveness by also creating long-term perspectives for  
outstanding academics who are not seeking professor -
ships, in particular by creating targeted permanent posi -
tions for highly qualified academic staff. 
38
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
3.6  Staff development and support
The University of Fribourg considers adequately qualified 
and motivated administrative and technical staff, who 
play a key role in the support of teaching and research, 
to be an essential prerequisite for the good functioning 
of its operations at academic and administrative level. It 
promotes a culture of appreciation. With particular refer -
ence to the rapidly changing demands, career profiles and 
scope statements resulting from digital transformation 
and other factors, it seeks to proactively shape this trend 
by drawing up a staff development strategy. It will sup -
port and promote the targeted development of staff with 
a view to enabling them to perform their responsibilities 
comprehensively into the future. It attaches central im -
portance to the continuing education of its staff, identifies 
staff members with special potential and provides them 
with targeted support.
Against the background of the increased demand pro -
file of recent years, the growing workload and the com -
petitive pressure on the labour market accentuated by 
various factors, the university intends to actively lobby 
for attractive working conditions both internally and 
vis-à-vis the responsible authorities. In this respect, its 
particular goal is to strengthen the autonomy of the uni -
versity in the area of staffing as well as elsewhere and 
thus to expand management’s scope of action, especial -
ly in view of the fact that there is strong competition for 
qualified staff. The University of Fribourg sees this aim 
as an important element in the effective and efficient 
implementation of the governance model introduced 
in 2015 regarding agreement on objectives and global 
budgeting. 
3.7  Equal opportunity and diversity
The University of Fribourg guarantees equality in all re -
gards and actively opposes any form of discrimination. In 
doing so, it promotes diversity and inclusion and makes 
them one of its strengths. It intends to be a role model in 
this respect. It aims to further increase the already rela -
tively high proportion of female professors (almost 30%), 
having regard to the diversity in its general environment, 
to support young female researchers and to reduce drop-
out rates. To this end, the university develops best prac -
tices and promotes their implementation. The University of Fribourg maintains and promotes a cul -
ture of openness, diversity and tolerance. It is particularly 
anxious to enable everyone to study, research and work 
in an environment of mutual respect. In particular, it con -
demns all forms of discrimination and provides access to 
independent contacts, such as – in particular – the Medi -
ation Service. Equal opportunity, diversity and inclusion, 
barrier-free access for people with disabilities as well as 
the prevention of discrimination are part of the human re -
sources strategy which is to be developed.
The University of Fribourg creates working, research and 
study conditions which allow the best possible compati -
bility of family, studies, academic career and/or work and 
promotes dual careers in particular.  In this way, it takes 
account of social and economic developments and real -
ities, especially in relation to mobility, life-long learning 
and the proportion of students in part-time employment. 
These specific measures serve to further enhance the at -
tractiveness of the University of Fribourg as a research 
institution.
3.8  Cooperation and internationalisation
The University of Fribourg sees itself as an international 
university. It aims to specifically strengthen its coopera -
tion with prestigious foreign research institutions. It con -
sistently orients its existing extensive cooperation net -
work towards the needs of researchers and students and 
sets corresponding priorities. The University of Fribourg 
promotes the international mobility of students and re -
searchers, both incoming and outgoing. A special empha -
sis is placed on the development of double degrees or co -
ordinated degrees.
At national and regional levels, the university enhances 
the quality of its offerings by making better use of existing 
cooperation networks and by establishing new ones. Es -
pecially in regard to academic development priorities, it is 
extending academically relevant synergies with strong ex -
isting and new partners as well as with other universities 
and is developing strategic partnerships. In particular, it 
is exploring the possibilities of increased cooperation with 
(non-university) cantons and is working towards the fur -
ther development of the BENEFRI network. At the same 
time, the University of Fribourg seeks to draw on coop -
39
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
eration in order to create spaces for a stronger profile. In 
the field of administration and governance, the university 
expands its network and actively promotes exchange with 
a view to developing best practices.
3.9  Dialogue with society
The University of Fribourg takes charge of its multiple 
responsibilities towards society. It shares its knowledge 
and findings with government, business and the pub -
lic and uses digital technology in doing so. At the same 
time, the University of Fribourg is hoping to in turn re -
ceive valuable contributions to teaching, research and 
continuing education. In this sense, it sees itself as a 
platform for dialogue and exchange between academ -
ia and society. Particular importance is attached to the 
expansion and maintenance of the alumni network both 
at the faculty level and at the level of the university as 
a whole. Its view of itself as a place of dialogue is to be 
realised in the form of attractive offerings for the gen -
eral public and measures to bring the world of work, 
students and researchers ever closer together, among 
other things by consistently fostering its Career Services 
as well as by providing high-quality communication with 
contact persons within the university. By providing ser -
vices (e.g. within the framework of TechTransfer) and in 
cooperation with partners, especially from industry and 
society, it actively contributes to the solution of tangi -
ble problems and questions. Thanks to its open access 
policy, it makes its research results accessible to broad 
areas of the public. 
With its “Science & Society” exchange platform and con -
tinuing education programmes, the University of Fri -
bourg makes a significant contribution to broad, knowl -
edge-based awareness-raising within government, 
business and the public in regard to current social issues 
and trends, such as the preservation of the natural foun -
dations of life and digital transformation, and is provid -
ing effective, solution-oriented contributions to public 
debate. It provides a wide range of offerings to various 
groups of stakeholders (e.g. senior citizens, but also to 
other interested members of the public). Thanks to its ac -
tive bilingualism, it enables all interested parties to ben -
efit from the cultural bridge function of the University of 
Fribourg and at the same time to help shape it. Thanks to a mode of communication and marketing tai -
lored to its target groups, the university actively enhances 
its reputation. In this way, the character of the University 
of Fribourg as a modern, committed and respected edu -
cational and research institution with a bilingual, multilin -
gual and interdisciplinary profile offering excellent career 
prospects, is to be made visible and highlighted to the 
outside world.
3.10  Sustainability
The University of Fribourg contributes to the attainment 
of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) in the areas of teaching, research and general op -
erations. It works actively towards the realisation of the 
Canton’s sustainability goals and their implementation 
and provides impetus at a national level. 
In the field of ecological sustainability, the University of 
Fribourg is committed to treating natural resources with 
due care. In doing this, it follows, in particular, national 
climate targets and international agreements, such as the 
objectives of the Paris Climate Convention which Swit -
zerland signed conjointly with other countries. Accord -
ingly, the University of Fribourg will reduce its ecological 
footprint in the area of infrastructure and buildings in the 
coming years, particularly in the context of upcoming and 
planned construction and renovation projects. In the area 
of mobility, the University of Fribourg intends to substan -
tially reduce its CO2 emissions by 2030. 
The University of Fribourg is formulating a strategy for 
ecological sustainability including measurable targets, 
specification of the funds to be made available for this 
purpose and expanded monitoring. It promotes healthy 
lifestyle choices in campus life, raises awareness within 
the university community about applying sustainabili -
ty principles in everyday activities and supports corre -
sponding initiatives from community members. It is in -
tended that there will be an even stronger focus on the 
question of ecological sustainability in the research of the 
various academic departments and their teaching.
40
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
3.11  Infrastructure and core facilities
The University of Fribourg considers the adequate pro -
vision of buildings and infrastructure that meet interna -
tional standards and are tailored to the needs of users 
to be a central factor in its attractiveness as a centre for 
research, study and work. For this reason, the new build -
ing for the Faculty of Law – the “Tour Henri” – and the 
necessary renovation of various buildings on the Plateau 
de Pérolles are to be completed as quickly as possible. At 
the same time, the attractiveness and user-orientation of 
the Miséricorde site and other buildings will be preserved. 
Working with government and other partners, the univer -
sity aims to set up firm medium- and long-term plans for 
the construction of buildings for the natural sciences and 
medicine based on existing preliminary work (such as the 
planned, so-called Science Tower). Existing potential for 
small-scale improvements that can be implemented in 
the short and medium term will be identified in dialogue 
with their occupants and consistently applied. 
In the library sector, the University of Fribourg expects 
structural and organisational changes as well as changing 
roles and tasks in connection with digital transformation. 
Together with its partners, specifically the Cantonal and 
University Library BCU, it is looking to proactively give 
shape to the resulting opportunities and challenges. To 
this end, it is further developing its strategic basis in or -
der to make sure that the resulting organisation is efficient 
and takes appropriate account of the subject-specific 
needs of its users.
Further key areas envisaged by the University of Fribourg 
are the provision of research equipment and scientific 
IT as well as support for researchers in the use of digi -
tal resources, always taking advantage of the synergies of 
shared utilisation within the university itself and with oth -
er higher education institutions.
3.12  Governance and quality assurance 
The University of Fribourg considers effective governance 
which takes into consideration its special character and is 
geared to current challenges and prevailing conditions to be 
a basic prerequisite for its long-term success. It therefore 
intends to further professionalise its governance struc -
ture and further develop existing governance instruments  for use at all levels of management. The University of Fri -
bourg takes account of both the need for the academ -
ic units to have a degree of autonomy and the need for 
some centralised control. Through dialogue with, and 
the appropriate involvement of, all affected stakehold -
ers, it builds the foundation for information-based deci -
sion-making and approaches to solutions. At the same 
time, the various bodies develop the tasks, competencies 
and responsibilities assigned to them by legislation to the 
fullest extent and in the interest of the entire institution. 
This goes hand in hand with a successive strengthening of 
the governing bodies.
The university considers a broadly based culture of qual -
ity, which allows all the members of its community to 
work competently and committedly and ensure and con -
tinuously optimise the quality of their work, to be a deci -
sive factor in guaranteeing excellent research, first-class 
scholarship and continuing education in the long term. Key 
mechanisms for promoting this culture of quality are the 
participatory orientation of the quality assurance system, 
communication concerning quality assurance procedures 
and results as well as the provision of key indicators. The 
latter provide the basis both for a transparent and objec -
tive dialogue at all levels and for information-based deci -
sion-making. The university’s quality assurance strategy 
meets the standards and guidelines agreed to at Europe -
an level and complies with national and international legal 
requirements. Within the framework of its quality assur -
ance strategy, the University of Fribourg formulates pre -
cise guidelines and developmental goals.
In the area of administration, the University of Fribourg 
has assumed a pioneering role within the Canton with 
the complete renewal of its information systems (Cam -
pus Management Project). The administration now has 
at its disposal an IT system which is future-oriented and 
capable of further development. The University of Fri -
bourg seeks to continue the digitisation of procedures and 
mechanisms in a targeted manner, to further develop its 
information systems and to consistently utilise any availa -
ble capabilities and synergies in order to increase quality 
and efficiency. This is accompanied by a cultural change in 
academia and administration in which the university ac -
tively takes part.
41
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
4  Financial policy
The University of Fribourg will allocate the necessary re -
sources for the implementation of the present strategy 
and the realisation of its quality objectives. In addition 
to the resources to be allocated for specific purposes, 
it is particularly necessary in this context to expand its 
discretionary spending in accordance with the autonomy 
granted to the university. In particular, university man -
agement should be in a position to specifically promote 
or actualise the key areas of development formulated in 
Chapter 2 as well as other such areas.
Excellence, and with it the guarantee and enhancement 
of attractiveness for students, established and young re -
searchers and technical-administrative staff, can only be 
realised if sufficient funds are made available for the key ar -
eas and specific guidelines formulated in this strategy. This 
requires both an additional financial commitment from the 
Canton as well as the willingness of the university itself to 
set clear priorities in the area of resource allocation. Tak -
ing into account the financial resources available to the 
Canton, the University of Fribourg is therefore seeking to 
increase its budget. At the same time, it will be providing 
sufficient internal resources through reallocation and pri -
oritisation within the faculties and across units. What is 
necessary, in particular, is a targeted, information-based 
review and, possibly, the concentration and restructur -
ing of offerings in certain academic departments as well 
as the expansion of cooperation. Decisions in this regard 
are to be embedded by university management within the 
framework of its budgetary authority in the multiyear plan, 
the agreement on objectives with the Canton and the per -
formance agreements with the faculties. In this regard, 
university management maintains continual prior dialogue 
with the various internal and external stakeholders. The 
consistent focus on quality, which has further enhanced 
the attractiveness of the course offerings and the over -
all environment for researchers and students, will, at the 
same time, ensure a further increase in student numbers.
The University of Fribourg has set itself the goal of further 
increasing its income from third-party funds, both from 
research funding and also from other public and private 
sources. It is conscious of the fierce competition in this 
area and therefore intends to establish strategic priori -
ties and to make better use of and further expand exist -ing networks. It is seeking to increase its financial leeway 
with regard to the possibility of making matching funds 
available, as this is often a prerequisite for the allocation 
of third-party funds. It provides researchers with the nec -
essary expertise, procedures and experience in relation 
to attracting funding and establishing partnerships with 
business and industry. The University of Fribourg attaches 
especially great importance to maintaining its independ -
ence and guaranteeing transparency. 
5  Implementation of the strategy
The present strategic plan forms the basis for the multi -
year plans of 2023–27 and 2028–32 in which the University 
of Fribourg lays down its objectives, the framework condi -
tions within which they are to be achieved, the resources 
required to achieve them, and the methods and criteria 
for verifying their achievement, thus giving substance 
to the present strategy. On the basis of these multiyear 
plans, the Canton and the University negotiate and sign an 
agreement on objectives. In this agreement, the canton -
al government defines the annual global budgets for the 
operation of the university and for the implementation of 
the agreement on objectives. The university management 
and its diverse faculties augment and give concrete form 
to these objectives in performance agreements. Period -
ic reporting enables the achievement of objectives to be 
reviewed and procedures to be agreed on. The Rectorate 
and the faculties periodically review the need for adjust -
ments to the prevailing performance agreements and 
other fundamental components of the strategy.
42
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030

43
University of Fribourg – Strategy 2030
IMPRESSUM | Publishing information
Editeur | Herausgeber | Publisher  
Université de Fribourg | Universität Freiburg | University of Fribourg
Rédaction | Redaktion | Editorial Team  
Rectorat | Rektorat | Rectorate
Adaptations linguistiques | Sprachliche Bearbeitung | Linguistic 
adaptation  
Anne Crausaz Esseiva, Thomas Austenfeld, Niclas Witton
Layout   
Unicom Communication & Médias | Unicom Kommunikation & Medien
Photos  
Hugues Siegenthaler
Fribourg, décembre 2020 | Freiburg, Dezember 2020 | Fribourg,  
December 2020
