 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A GLOBAL  
AND CIVIC  
 UNIVERSITY  
STRATEGIC PLAN  
2030  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CONTENTS  
 
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL  ................................ ..................  1 
MESSAGE FROM THE  RECTOR  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 3 
SUMMARY  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 5 
MISSION, VALUES AND CULTUR E ................................ ................................ ..............................  9 
MISSION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  10 
VALUES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........................  11 
CULTURE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  12 
VISION AND STRATEGIC GOALS  ................................ ................................ .............................  13 
VISION AND STRATEGIC GOALS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  14 
CROSS -CUTTING PROGRAMS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 15 
NOVA CAMPI  21 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ......... 16 
TALENT@NOVA  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  19 
LEARNING@NOVA  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 22 
NOVA DIGITAL  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  24 
NOVA IMPACT  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  26 
LIVING@NOVA  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  28 
INTERDISCIPLINARY PLATFORMS  ................................ ................................ ............................  30 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT | NOVA 4 the Globe  ................................ ................................ ...........  31 
NOVA HEALTH  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  33 
INSTITUTE FOR ART AND TECHNOLOGY  ................................ ................................ ...............................  36 
NOVA HOSPITALITY FUTURES PLATFORM  ................................ ................................ .............................  38 
STRATEGIC INSTRUMENTS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 40 
NOVA SIMAQ  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  41 
NOVA COMMUNICATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  42 
NOVA IN NUMBERS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  43 
NOVA IN NUMBERS ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1 
 MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL  
 
 
The Strategic Plan for  2020-2030 is the action document that  outlines  the mission of Nova  
University Lisbon  (NOVA) , its vision and strategic goals, and the major  areas of intervention. 
It is therefore a key instrument to support NOVA’s management and a roadmap towards  
building its future . 
The present strategy does not represent  a break with the path, but rather builds on the 
aspirations and remarkable achievements of the past to project new lines of development and 
explore opportunities, both emerging and future, by defining a new trajectory to success fully 
meet these challenges, which will naturally be reflected in the University's own activities.  
These activities can and should have a positive and significant impact on society, nationally, 
globally, but also more and more at the local level , through the sustainable development of 
the metropolitan areas around the University campuses. In this Strategic Plan, the geographical 
distribution of NOVA's academic activities across multiple campuses in the Greater Lisbon 
region is viewed, rather than an opport unity, as a n important  strength  and distinctive feature 
of this University that will be intensively explored in order to open up the various existing 
NOVA campuses to the cities and communities which  they are p art of . 
This document provides a look into the  future. A future in which , despite the greater or lesser 
emphasis that may be given to certain area s, in light of the needs of a changing society like 
ours, NOVA will continue to have young talent  development  as its core business, not just from 
a knowledg e transfer  point of view , but also from the perspective of knowledge production 
through research and value creation for society, based on innovation and entrepreneurship.  
In that sense, it is imperative to offer 21st century education of excellence, perfec tly adapted 
to the current and future demands of the market, where digital is an  essential  part, and where 
the focus on soft skills is increasing ly higher . And  it is imperative to have  a gradually more  
collaborative and interdisciplinary research, which is not confined to fundamental research, 
but provides  equal importance to applied researc h, and enables, among other things , the 
develop ment of  solutions that will help to achieve the Sustainable Develop ment G oals set by 
the United Nations .  
The positive impact on the economy and on society at large, as a result of connecting  
knowledge to technological and social innovation, will be the real value creation, and a n 
essential  requirement for any University of the F uture which aims to be  global and civic, 
inclusive and sustainable, bold and plural.  
Nova  University Lisbon emerged more than four decades ago as a differentiat ed and 
visionary academic project and this strategic document shows  that this distinctive trademark is 
as alive now as it was  back then. However, today's reality  is no longer the same of that time, 
and never before have the promotion of meritocratic t alent, interdisciplinarity  and the values 
of equa lity, inclusion, and democracy b een as important for NOVA's consolidation process as 
a strongly int ernational and civic university as now.  
The 20 20-2030 Strategic Plan reflects all these concerns, but also the profound  ambition of a 
University that, albeit  still young, is already a natio nal champion  in several areas, has earned 
a well -deserved reputation  in the international  and very competitive space of higher education 
institutions, and intends to continue to stand out  in Portugal and in the world . 
 
2 
 This Plan is the result of several  discussions involving members of different NOVA  decision  
bodies and at different levels of influence, who have been called upon to participate  in the  
development process of the strategy to follow over the next decade. Its success will depend 
very much on the active and proactive involvement of the entire University and on the ability 
of each of its members to work together. Nevertheless , it is comforting to know that this strategy 
is the result of a joint effort and  already  enjoys the support of the entire  University.  
As President of the General Council, I thank all of those who participated in the production of 
this strategy, which I consider to comprise  excellent and ambitious proposals and which will 
certainly help to make NOVA a true University of the F uture.  
 
Estela Barbot  
President of the General Council  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 MESSAGE FROM THE  RECTOR  
 
 
To resist, even more than to persist, or to transform?  
This is the inevitable dilemma that universities face today. A dilemma between conformism and 
risk-taking , between an incremental policy based on patch -up solutions  and a policy of 
forward -looking transformations.  
The choice  for Nova University Lisbon is clear : its history and ambition require the second 
option  in all areas. In other words , to face the world resolutely taking on  the most important 
challenges for societies in the 21st century  by training people and produc ing knowledge that 
rise up to these situations and problems, and contribut ing decisively to building a better future.  
This is the ambition which is hereby presented  in detail in the Strategic Plan  for the next 
decade . And it is this Plan that, from now on,  will frame our new projects.   
We have a vision to make NOVA a real university of the 21st century , global  - because its 
teaching and research are truly international regarding  quality, agendas and partners - and 
civic - because it is deeply committed to the development of society, culture and econom y of 
the Greater Lisbon region where NOVA is inserted, of the country, of Europe and also of the 
Portuguese -speaking countries, to which we are connected by centuries of common history.  
The various initiatives contained in the Plan are aligned with the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDG) of the UN Agenda 2020 -30 and, when ever possible, will be delivered through 
missions  whose success will have a real and positive impact on society and people. Europe  is 
the only region in the world , with the capacity  of creating knowledge and innovation , that has 
taken on this strategic orientation, with which NOVA fully identifies itself.  
Hence, we will have in our Strategic Plan initiatives and missions in the area of Health and 
Well-being  (SDG 3), Equal Rights and Opportunities (SDG 5), Renewable and Aff ordable 
Energy (SDG 7), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructures (SDG 9), Inequality Reduction (SDG 
10), Promotion of Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11), and Climate Change (SDG 
13), among others.  
Effective participation in these missions requires  joining forces. Firstly, within NOVA, among its 
various schools . Secondly,  with our national and i nternational partners, academic and non -
academic  - companies, social institutions, cultural in stitutions, municipalities, NGO  and others. 
Only then will we b ring together the necessary interdisciplinary skills and impact capacity for 
the success of the missions in which we will be involved.  
In the process of carrying out these missions we will also address current and important topics 
such as: digital transformation at the service of people ; lifelong learning and capacity building  
of people and institutions  with new skills ; technological innovation for the development of  
industry 4.0 and national competitiveness ; social innovation and inclusion ; the creation of 
collaborative laboratories with companies and social institutions aimed  at useful innovation 
and territorial cohesion ; health research going from the lab to the patient and to the 
populations ; the interface between art and technology as a  way of creating value and 
inclusion ; and the interdisciplinary issues concerning the future of hospitality and tourism.  
 
 
 
 
4 
 In this changing environment , the profound transformation of the campuses where NOVA is 
established and develops its activity  is absolutely essential  in order to adapt them t o this 
ambitious Strategic Plan . The goal is to make these campuses  international role models  of the 
21st century and, at the same time, to open them to the community, in order to perform the 
intended development  and innovative impact  in this common ground . 
None of this can be  done without people. In this context, it is crucial that NOVA continue s and 
improve s its policy of attracting, developing and retaining talent, both nationally a nd 
internationally. And recog nizing  and reward ing merit. And to do so at all levels: teachers, 
researchers, students and staff. We need each one of them and we count on every body  as 
one cohesive group . 
This is how NOVA will continue to serve the country and society in general through knowledge , 
fulfilling its mission as the Portuguese public institution  that it is proud to be.  
 
João Sàágua  
Rector of Nova  University Lisbon  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 SUMMARY  
 
 
The present document aims to present the Strategic Plan of Nova  University  Lisbon for 20 20-
2030. This plan should serve as a reference for the main initiatives and programs to be 
developed over the next ten years and underpin strategic decision -making. Hence , its 
particular importance. The Strategic Plan  is the result of an extensive p rocess of discussions, 
contributions and suggestions from all those who have responsibility for guiding and 
implementing the strategy to be adopted: the Rector, the Rectora te team, Deans,  and members 
of representative bodies of NOVA  schools . Therefore, the  Strategic Plan  is very much revealing 
of the environment of diversity and inclusion, interdi sciplinarity and free thinking that is in place 
at NOVA. However, this document is a work in progress , which is not complete upon its 
approval: it must continue to be developed and improved with the contribution and 
involvement of the entire NOVA community and in close interaction with the internal and 
external settings , and with the way they evolve, in order to be successful . 
The ex ercise of articulating a vision that anticipates opportunities, challenges and trends over 
a ten-year timeframe is an ambitious exercise, but it gives continuity and coherence to NOVA's 
project as a university of the future  and it helps to lead  the way for ward. This ten -year 
overview keeps the University true to its mission and identity, regardless of any changes in 
government leadership or other unforeseeable challenges that may require ad hoc  corrections 
or even deeper revisions of the Strategic Plan . It is therefore a strategic guideline  document  
that is clear in its ambition, objectives and general means, but context -sensitive, flexible and 
adaptable.  
Much of NOVA's success is due to the culture of autonomy of its schools, which comprise  a 
multitude  of expectations and visions resulting from its different dimensions, resources and 
specific objectives. For this reason, the Strategic Plan  reflects the overall strategy of the 
University , whereas  the strategy of each school will be  defined autonomously a nd specifically, 
but aligned with NOVA's global vision, without compromising  its own  specialized nature. In 
particular, we highlight in this document the common guideline s to provide, through knowledge, 
a public service at the highest level, which in this Strategic Plan  corresponds  to the ambition of 
making NOVA a University whose activity is, at the same time, truly international and deeply 
committed to the sustainable development of the areas  where it is located, of the country, of 
Europe and, above all, committed to the great global challenges.  
Under the motto “ NOVA is a global and civic university ”, NOVA has the ambition to become  
an increasingly international and impactful university in the way  it serves society, which is why 
it proudly promotes a culture that cherishes  knowledge and value creation, inclusion and equal 
opportunities and respect for the European fundamental values.  
Thus, considering the context of change that is anticipated for the next decade and the 
achievements already accomplished , in terms of quality and internationalization of teaching , 
scientific production and positioning in relation to competition, this Plan has defined seven 
strategic goals , namely : 
(1) Smart Specialization : to undertake a smart  specializa tion movement that will 
enable NOVA  to defines its strategic areas;  
(2) Talent : to attract and promote the best national and international talent;  
 
6 
 (3) Community : to develop the NOVA Community, which comprises current and former 
students, academics , staff and external partners, and is based on the values of active 
citizenship and humanism;  
(4) Teaching : to empower students with the knowledge and competencies ( soft skills ) 
to successfully build a career anywhere in the world ; 
(5) Research : to have specialized and interdisciplinary research agendas aligned with 
the European Agenda for Knowledge and Innovation and the United Nations 2030  
Agenda for Sustainable Development, in addition to its own initiatives;  
(6) Value Creation : to contribute significa ntly to the social and economic development 
of the country, paying special attention to the metropolitan areas in which the 
University is placed  and to the south of the country.  
(7) Management and Financing : to promote a new governance model common to all 
schools,  which could be financially sustainable and have greater strategic alignment, 
and capable of ensuring the provision of a quality public service.  
Following  these strategic goals , several cross-cutting  programs have been designed  and will  
be implemen ted in the coming years . Many of these programs  require the active commitment 
of all NOVA  schools  and the corresponding mobilization of human, financial, logistical and 
other resources allocated to them.  
The first program presented in this Plan, NOVA Campi  21, is part of NOVA's strategy to 
develop a university increasingly open to society, which means that NOVA will become a 
university without external borders between itself and the communities where it is located, and 
without internal bo rders between NOVA schools  and the different disciplinary areas. This 
ambition involves a new urban and social framework for each of the campuses, without visible 
barriers, open to residents and serving as a platform for business initiatives. It also involves 
the definition of 4 major concentrations of knowledge (Engineering and Technology; Economics, 
Business and Law; Medicine, Health and Life Sciences; and Arts and Social and Human 
Sciences) which, over a 10 -year horizon, should be distributed across the campuses  of Almada,  
Campolide and Carcavelos/ Oeiras. And it assumes  that these campuses sh all be increasingly 
interconnected, physically or virtually, in order to promote interdisciplinarity, innovation and 
incubation, and contribute to the social, economic, cultural and urb an development of the 
municipalities where NOVA lives and operates.  
The second initiative i s the development of the Talent@NOVA  program. Since “people ” are 
University's most valuable resource and  since the University is a knowledge -based community, 
talent has a fundamental value for NOVA. In th at sense, a set of 18 subprograms  dedicated 
to the various sectors of the NOVA Community was developed to attract, retain , train and 
advance individuals of great talent and high potential.  
The third program, Learning@NOVA , concerns NOVA’s  training offer. This is a Program that 
shall be created and  kept permanently  by the schools  in order to ensure the provision of a 
quality public service and to respond appropriate ly to training needs  in the future . Through 
Learning@ NOVA , the core curriculum will be enriched with complementary  training and will 
include emp loyability and entrepreneurship -oriented credits. All cycles of  studies will have a 
strong international dimension and a stronger connection  to research, using the latest 
technological innovations,  and lifelong training for capacity building will be offered.   
The fourth program, NOVA Digital , aims to support the challenge o f digital transformation at 
NOVA by capitalizing on the many initiatives that already exist in NOVA schools  and 
enhancing opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration across the University. In particular, 
 
7 
 teaching and learning will be gradually digiti zed through the provision of curricular units with 
a strong digital component, through the creation of an online catalog of equipment  and 
services to support the digital transformation of teaching , and through the preparation of open 
online courses. The NOVA Digital Forum  will be created to foster collaboration between 
researchers from various fields of knowledge around multidisciplinary projects with a strong 
digital component. The NOVA Smart Campus Living Lab  program will also be created to 
enhance the di gital experience of NOVA campuses and to serve as a space for experimenting 
with new projects in this area proposed by students and academics. Finally, information 
systems will be implemented to extract relevant information for decision -making at various 
management levels and increase the quality and efficiency of administrative processes.  
The fifth program is called NOVA Impact  and consists of creating an interface institution 
dedicated to knowledge transfer and social innovation based on the link between university, 
business es and social sectors, with a special focus on industry 4.0, life and health sciences and 
on the social challenges that exist in large urban spaces. For that reason , NOVA Impact  will 
have collaborative initiatives with the Community, such as the technology -based social 
innovation hub  called  NOVA Social Innovation , and initiatives with c ompanies  through 
collaborative laboratories - CoLabs -, interface institutions that link knowle dge to the need for 
business innovation , and Science &  Technology, Incubation and Acceleration parks.  
The sixth and final program, Living@NOVA , intends  to increase the  quality of life i n NOVA 
campuses, and turn them into places where people inside and outs ide the NOVA Community 
interact with each other and  participate in cultural, sports and solidarity  activities, making 
university life more complete and enriching. A coordinated digital platform will be created 
with all of NOVA ’s volunteering initiatives an d various artistic and sport s initiatives will be 
promoted with the Community, as a result of NOVA ’s deep commitm ent to the social, economic 
but also cultural development of the municipalities to which it belongs . 
However, many of our society's current challenges require a more interdisciplinary response 
and the design of projects that can bring together different areas of knowledge , which is why  
NOVA 4 the Globe  was created . It support s NOVA's internationalization strategy by becoming  
a permanent international platform across the University, where groups from NOVA and other 
universities will work collaboratively to produce knowledge and impact that  support the goals 
in the 2030 Agenda at global level. In academic te rms, NOVA 4 the Globe  will aggregate all 
the knowledge with impact developed at  NOVA. In institutional terms, it will reflect all the 
initiatives aligned with the Sustainability Agenda and will monitor NOVA's performance at 
that level.  
Another important in terdisciplinary area is NOVA Saúde , through which NOVA intends to 
respond to concrete health problems at national and global levels. This platform allows the 
aggregation and enhancement of the many skills that NOVA has in this area  and that can be 
further developed through strategic collaborations with the industry and society. In addition to 
the collaborative research thematic groups and the Value4Health.CoLAB, the NOVA Institute 
for Precision Medicine  (IPM) will be established, with the purpose of develop ing collaborative 
and interdisciplinary research in the field of biology and health sciences, and making the 
transition of that research into  practical, clinical and global health applications . 
To address the absence of a center for artistic creation in the Greater Lisbon region, which 
could  be both of technology valorization and transfer linked to the Arts, the NOVA Institute 
for Art & Technology  (NOVA IA&T) will be created from a consortium betw een the NOVA 
School of Sciences and Technology and the NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities . 
Located in the region of Almada, NOVA IA&T aims to establish itself as an internationally 
renowned School of Arts and Technology with high impact on the l ocal society and on the 
 
8 
 economy of the country, with the support of a number of international partners o f great 
strategic importance. NOVA IA&T will contribute to social harmony and inclusion by promoting 
intercultural dialogue between different social gro ups, especially, but not exclusively, in the 
Almada area and among the young population.  
And to address the lack of training and innovation in Portugal in the area of Hospitality and 
Tourism , with the appropriate internationalization dimension and the in terdisciplinary 
approach that is required,  a new platform called  NOVA Hospitality Futures Platform  (HFP) will 
be created . NOVA HFP will offer advanced training activities, provide an innovation platform 
through hot -spot research labs focused on industry -linked multidisciplinary research, and offer 
incubation service s in research labs  for A level start-ups. 
Lastly , accomplishing  NOVA's Vision and Strategic Goals  requires a permanent commitment 
to two areas considered instrumental in  this process: high quality, both  in the fundamental 
areas of the University  and in the areas of support, and internal and external communication 
with greater strategic alignment.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MISSION , VALUES 
AND CULTUR E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 MISSION  
 
As a public institution of higher education, NOVA has the mission to serve society through 
knowledge, locally and globally, by developing teaching  and research of excellence that 
create significant social and economic value .  
 
The fulfilment  of its triple mission - Teaching, Research and Value Creation  - requires :  
 An academic environment that embraces  equality , inclusion  and free thinking  to attract 
the best students from a wide range of cultural backgrounds and into the most diverse 
fields of knowledge, enabling them to discover their potential and develop their individual 
talent, with a strong sense of active citizenship, democracy and j ustice;  
 
 High-quality teaching with a strong international  setting  in all cycles  of studies , student -
centered and delivered by leading academics  who are  able to provide students with the  
necessary  skills and knowledge to successfully develop  a career anywh ere in the world ; 
 
 A collaborative  research within the University and with highly specialized and 
interdisciplinary  strategic partner institutions of international  relevance, aimed at creati ng 
innovative results  with recognized academic impact and value potential ; 
 
 A knowledge -based  and high -impact value creation activity, developed in collaboration 
with society and the economy, which promotes sustainable development  at the economic, 
technological, cultural, social and health levels, not only across the n ation, but also globally, 
with particular attention to the European and Portuguese speaking regions.  
 
  
 
11 
 VALUES 
 
Our values  include, first and foremost, respect for human dignity , freedom , democracy , 
equality , the rule of law , and human rights  in general , including the rights of pe ople 
belonging to any minority, who often tend to be forgotten in times of crisis or paradigm  shift.  
In developing its activity, NOVA's values also include honesty , integrity  and accountability  
for all actions, transparency  and knowledge sharing with society , sense of justice  and 
independence  regarding  interests unrelated to the goals set out by  the University.  
In that sense, the commitment to inclusion and diversity  are indispensable conditions for the 
accomplishment of NOVA's mission. This means: to recogniz e and valu e the uniqueness, talent 
and effort of each person; to eliminate any practice that may act as a barrier to a diverse 
and inclusive environment; to promote communication, understanding and collaboration among 
all. 
Last but not least, NOVA is proud to be commit ted to public service : practicing and promoting 
equal opportunities, a culture of merit and solidarity , leaving  no one behind  and contribut ing 
distinctively to a better society.  
Therefore , Nova  University Lisbon is devoted  to including in its academic and institutional 
practice, as an integral part of its identity, the continuous  respect and promotion of these 
values, which are also the founding values of the European Union  and will be reflected in all 
the initiatives devel oped under this Strategic Plan.  
By setting  the example and implementing best  practices in teaching , research and institutional 
activities , NOVA wil l continue to provide  a positive contribution to change in soci ety, making  
it more cohesive , harmonious , supportive  and plural . 
This is the free, inclusive  and democratic  society  that we want to help build and we are 
certain that  this is the right University  at the moment  to do so.  
 
  
 
12 
 CULTUR E 
 
NOVA's culture is based on five fundamental actions: learning, being bold , innovating, 
rewarding excellence and building a sustainable world . 
 
Learning  
NOVA promotes a culture of learning and skills acquisition in an international, diverse and 
inclusive environment, based on the excellence of a student -centered education designed to 
develop successful professionals and, most importantly , entrepreneurial, committed and 
compassionate  citizens , capable of making a difference in a changing global society.  
 
Being Bold  
At NOVA, students, academics and staff are encouraged to undertake the University's overall 
goals and values, but breaking free from traditional paradigms , in search of alternative and 
innovative ways of achieving their own goals - given that in a globalized and evolving world 
sometimes  to do better, you have to do it differently.  
 
Innovating 
Innovating is key to the growth of any country ’s economy , to the improvement of society, and  
particularly to the success of NOVA's mission in serving  society  due to the ability to successfully 
respond to today's challenges. At NOVA, the aptitude  to innovate stems from the combination 
of being bold  and assuming a scientific spirit, widely promoted in research, teaching, and 
learning, that encourages curiosity, creativity, the use of evidence, critical reflection and free 
discussion.  
 
Rewarding  Excel lence  
Recognizing and rewarding merit and ex cellence in all areas of activity guarantees  that no 
talented student will be left out of NOVA or have their academic performance undermined  
by financial difficulties or special needs, and that all teachers, researchers and other staff will 
have equal access to training and career advancement, based on merit, and incentives that 
reward their achievements and motivate them to perform their best . 
 
Building a Sustainable World  
NOVA, as a whole , and the members of  the NOVA  Community - students, academics , staff - 
aim to contribute significantly to building a better future by engraving  their institutional and 
individual project in this future. Its c ontribution will be based on the excellence of the 
knowledge and skills produced and passed on  at NOVA, on the resulting potential  for 
innovation , on the values of active and civic citizenship that NOVA shares and promotes, on 
the quality of its national and international strategic partnerships, and on the  collaboration 
with society, local ly and global ly, around the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  
 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VISION AND 
STRATEGIC GOALS  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 VISION AND  STRAT EGIC GOALS  
 
NOVA's vision is to be a global and civic university  in the 21st century. NOVA will be a global  
university because, in its strategic areas, its teaching and research will be carried out in genuinely 
international environments. And it will be a civic university be cause all its strategic activities  will be 
deeply committed to the development of the ar ea where it operates, of the country and of Europe.   
The accomplishment of NOVA's Vision involves the pursuit of 7 strategic goals1:  
 
1. SMART SPECIALIZATION  
To carry out a smart specialization movement whereby NOVA defines its strategic areas  and flags 
down: key cycles of studies; excellent research areas with international recognition (specialized and 
interdisciplinary); areas of innovation; and foreign universities and non -academic institutions that 
may be come strategic partners.  
 
2. TALENT  
To attract and promote the best national and international talent - students, academics and 
staff. 
 
3. COM MUNITY 
To develop the NOVA Community, which will be made up of students, academic s, 
collaborators, and external partners. The NOVA Community will share the humanist values of 
active and inclusive citizenship and stand out as being competent, creative, autonomous, 
supportive, entrepreneurial, and globally disseminated. This community w ill take, over the 
years, several initiatives aimed at strengthening the sense of  belonging, benefiting both society 
and the University.   
 
4. TEACHING  
To empower students with knowledge and skills that will enable them to successfully build a 
career anywhe re in the world.  
 
5. RESEARCH  
To have specialized and interdisciplinary research agendas aligned with both the EU and 
Global agendas for Knowledge, Innovation and Sustainability, and to participate in the best 
international Research Networks . 
 
6. VALUE CREATION  
To contribute significantly to the social and economic development of the country, particularly the 
metropolitan areas around the campuses and the south of Portugal.  
 
7. GOVERNANCE  AND  FINANCI NG 
To strengthen the University's strategic alignment regarding  statutes, critical procedures and 
strategy implementation in order  to consolidate the changes that began with the 
transformation of NOVA in to a Foundation, and give rise to a new  governance model , 
financially sustainable and less  bureaucratic, capable of ensuring the increase of own revenues 
and the provision of a quality public service .  
                                            
1 These strategic goals  will be achieved  through concrete initiatives (programs and platforms) and instruments that will 
support their fulfilment , as described in the following sections. These goals  will be reevaluated if there is a fundamental 
change in circumstances over the time frame  to which  this Plan concerns . 
 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CROSS -CUTTING 
PROGRAMS   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 NOVA CAMPI 21  
 
A STRATEGY FOR THE U NIVERSITY CAMPUSES  
NOVA's strategy is grounded in the development of a global and civic university. These two 
founding ideas of the strategic plan imply, among other things, that NOVA wants to be a 
university of the world and for the world, namely:  
 Without external borders between NOVA  and the surrounding communities , and 
 Without  internal bor ders between NOVA schools and the different disciplinary areas.  
This ambition unfolds  in a 10 -year project, start ing right  now and capitaliz ing on the good 
examples that, fortunately, already exist at the University. This future “NOVA without borders ” 
has a double impact on the design and development of its campuses: physical and 
epistemological.   
From a physical point of view, it implies a  new urban and social framework of each of its 
campuses, taking as an example the NOVA SBE campus: without visible barr iers, open to 
residents and serving as a platform for multiple initiatives by companies and organizations. 
Naturally , this model  cannot be applied literally to pre -existing campuses, but it should serve 
as an ever -present inspiration both in modernizing existing infrastructure and equipment, in 
implementing socially, environmentally and financially sustainable solutions, or even in creating 
clear zones that foster inwards openness (e.g., buildings of conver gence of knowledge and 
communities on each campus) and outwards  openness  (buildings or mingling  zones between 
NOVA communities and the surrounding or even distant society). NOVA thus assumes a clear 
commitment to the social, economic, cultural and urban de velopment of the municipalities where 
it belongs  and operates.  
From the epistemological point of view, that is, the distribution of NOVA's knowledge among 
its campuses, it implies:  
 to recognize and assume the digital area, broad sense, as 'interdisciplinar y cement' of 
other areas of knowledge, besides being itself an area of knowledge in fast development;  
 the promotion, by campus, of large concentrations of resources (human and infrastructural) 
in strategic areas , assuring the existence of critical masses  that allow smart specialization 
and, if applicable, hyperspecialization;  
 the definition of 'communication and academic articulation  channels ' between the various 
campuses;  
 the assumption of interdisciplinary global agendas  for knowledge , particular ly aligned  
with the UN Sustainable Development Goals;  
 guiding  teaching, research and innovation to wards  missions stemming from both disciplinary 
hyperspecialization and interdisciplinarity - NOVA's activity will thus be problem -based 
and guided by mission -oriented  projects;  
 to recognize that these missions will be developed in an open way, in cooperation with 
companies , organizations and other leading universities.   
 
 
 
 
17 
 CURRENT SITUATION  
For historical reasons, NOVA is distributed across multiple campuses in the Greater Lisbon 
region, located between the municipalities of Lisbon (with sites in Campolide, Junqueira, 
Campo de Santana, Av. Berna and Lumiar), Almada, Carcavelos and Oeiras. Thi s heritage is 
vast and valuable, but it also presents  four types of fundamental inadequacies:  
1. The existence of assets whose adequacy  is not the best  for teaching activities (such as, for 
example, the current facilities of NOVA School of Social Sciences and  Humanities  and 
NOVA Medical School ) and, in some cases, which are unable to provide students with 
experiences at the same level as national and international competitors. Some campuses 
have buildings  that are very degraded , namely NOVA School of Sciences and Technology ; 
others, although reasonably adequate, have capacity constraints ( such as NOVA School of 
Law and NOVA Information Management School ). 
2. The location of academic activities has a historical basis that lacks  strategic coherence, 
which makes it d ifficult to explore  synergies and  to promote multidisciplinarity (it is worth 
mentioning the pulverization of laboratories in the large area of life sciences across the 
campuses of  Santana, Junqueira, Almada and Oeiras ); 
3. The existence of assets without foreseeable academic use and which could be monetized 
(such as, for example, the roughly  30 hectares in a n allotment  north of NOVA School of 
Sciences and Technology in Monte da Caparica);  
4. Most UNL campuses do not actively pr omote their engagement  with the cities and 
communities where they are located.  
 
MID-TERM IMPLICATIONS  
From these considerations, there are five major options that take full advantage of particularly 
favourable opportunities that directly relate to the physical and conceptual architecture of 
NOVA's campuses.  
1. Definition of 4 major knowledge concentrations , 
 Engineering and Technology   
 Economics, Business and Law   
 Medicine, Health and Life Sciences  
 Arts and Social and Human Sciences )  
that within the next 10 years would be distribut ed across 3 campuses, namely :  
 Almada (headquarters of NOVA School of Sciences and Technology  and the upcoming 
Institute of Arts and Technology)  
 Campolide (headquarters of NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities , NOVA  
Information Management School  and the Social Innovation Hub); and  
 Carcavelos/ Oeiras with 2 clusters:  
o NOVA School of Business and Economics  and NOVA School of Law   
o NOVA Medical School , NOVA Institute of Chemical  and Biological Technology  and 
associated laboratories, as well as the upcoming  Graduate Medical School and  Institute 
of Precision Medicine.  NOVA Institute o f Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and NOVA 
National School of Public Health  currently have adequate infrastructure  which means 
that the future of their facilities will be analyzed over this period of time.  
 
18 
 2. Inclusion in all of these campuses of a strong digital and data science component that is 
appropriate to the specific activities of each campus;  
3. Development of ways of linking the campuses, physical ly or virtual ly, through 
interdisciplinary activities  that enabl e the movement across the campuses of specialists in 
the digital field, among others, and the coordination of academic activities ; 
4. Active promotion on each campus (and th erefore in different areas of knowledge) of 
interdisciplinarity, innovation and incubation;  
5. Existence on all campuses of clear forms, also physical, of openness to the outside  world, 
thus establishing platforms that connect the University  to companies and society.  
But the strategic implications must take into account  the actual conditions  (in some cases 
requiring urgent intervention) of many of the facilities, namely of three of the largest NOVA 
school s: 
 NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities , a well -known case of improper facilities 
with a long -promised relocation  to Campolide;  
 The NOVA School of Sciences and Technology , because the buildings are old, numerous, 
need major repairs and have laboratories that are either in a state that  needs urgent 
intervention (Chemical Engineering laboratories), or are outdated, and still lack labs (e.g., 
Civil Engineering);  
 NOVA Medical School, accommodated in an iconic building, but very old and unfit for 
modern medical science education.  
The order  in which the investment pla n's priorities were established considered  the importance 
to the University's strategy, the urgency of the investment and the seizing of opportunities.  
Priori ty 1 (high import ance and urgency):  
 Relocation of  NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities ; 
 Relocation  of NOVA School of Law , in the vicinity of  NOVA School of Business and  Economics; 
 Renovation of some of the building of NOVA School of Sciences and Technology . 
Priori ty 2 (high import ance and low  urgency):  
 Investment in a Medical Graduate School ; 
 Participation in the project to build a student residence in Portas de Benfica;  
 Construction of NOVA Medical School  in Carcavelos. Important note: this action relies 
heavily on the construction  area and financing (largely from fundraisi ng).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 TALENT @NOVA  
 
MISS ION 
To attract, retain, train and advance individuals of great talent and high potential  at NOVA . 
 
OBJECTIVE S  
 To support the fulfilment of NOVA's responsibility towards its students;  
 To contribute to teaching, research and innovation of excellence and international relevance;  
 To contribute to an efficient, innovative and motivated management of the University, 
adopt ing the best international practices . 
 
APPROACH ; 
For Students   
 1. Pre-University Semest er  
Program developed for non -EU students who have just completed upper secondary education and 
who wish to apply for higher education in Portugal. It assists students in adapting to the European 
higher education system, levelling  their technical knowledge and providing, when necessary, 
language skills to start their studies in one of NOVA schools.  
 2. Young Talent@NOVA  
Every year the best students in the 1st year of NOVA's Bachelor and Integrated Master 
Degrees receive a Young Tale nt Prize, which is equivalent to the tuition fee.  
 3. Master Degree Awards  
Each year NOVA's top  Master Degree  students receive Talent Awards  from NOVA schools . 
These awards may have an  honourable  and pecuniary  nature, or take the form of professional 
internships, scholarships or others . 
 4. NOVA Doctoral School  
NOVA Doctoral School is aimed at PhD students and their supervisors and intends  to contribute to 
the excellence of doctoral training at NOVA by offering complementary and transversal training . 
 5. Entrepreneurship Development among  Students  
a. Exposure of Students to the theme of entrepreneurship. NOVA's teaching already comprises 
in most of its schools  a set of credits (ECTS), compulsory or optional,  that introduce students to 
entrepreneurship.  
b. Starters Academy : Course  aimed at stimulating the entrepreneurial spirit of NOVA's best students 
by providing them with the basic tools for creating a start -up. It covers students from various NOVA 
schools and from different nationalities to encourage mult idisciplinary teams that will work on case 
studies and develop business plans.  
c. NOVA Idea Competition : Internal competiti on of business plans to enhance  innovative ideas 
presented by NOVA student s. It promot es an entrepreneurial culture and multidiscipli nary work 
through team s of students from at least two different NOVA schools . 
 
20 
 d. European Innovation Academy  (EIA) and other initiatives : The EIA is a 3 -week intensive 
program aimed at promoting entrepreneurial projects of students from around the world in  
the field of digital technologies.   
 6. ObipNOVA and ‘Jobs of the Future’ Forum  
Within the framework of the Observatory for Labor  Market Insertion (OBIPNOVA), a Council 
entitled 'Talent, Future Jobs and Digital Transformation' will be set up with the presence of a 
reputable international panel and the participation of teachers and students from NOVA,  that 
will prepar e an annual repo rt with concrete suggestions for initiatives that NOVA should take 
in the educational area.  
For Acad emics 
 7. Development Program  in Pedagogical Skills  
This course aims to contribute to the professional development of teachers and to promote the 
improvement  of teaching quality at NOVA, enabling teachers to design and plan their 
pedagogical activity, as well as to select the pedagogical format and forms of assessment 
most appropriate to the  target audience and to the end goals . 
 8. Development Program in Pedag ogical Coordination Skills  
This course aims to empower course coordinators with skills that will enable them to perform 
their duties more effectively .  
 9. Development Program in Supervisory Skills  
This course focuses on the dimensions of student -supervisor interaction, with the aim to provide 
participants with a conceptual framework for supervisory activity, particularly regarding 
student -supervisor interaction issues. The course seeks to highlight the relevance of dimensions  
such as leadership, motivation and self -awareness in the supervisory process and to facilitate 
the identification of the most common problems that may arise during supervision, improving 
conflict management skills.  
 10. Entrepreneurship Development among Academics  
a. Expos ure of Academics to the theme of entrepreneurship . A 12-hour regular course will be 
created and will take place at least every six months, introducing NOVA scholars to the 
entrepreneurship theme.  
b. Techpreneur : Practical training in entrepreneurship based on technology and knowledge, 
aimed at teachers and researchers wishing to start a new spin -off. 
 11. Training in the Preparation of Applications for European Projects  
a. Preparing for my ERC Grant Application’ (PEGA) : Preparation cou rse for the application to  
ERC grants, which are  the most competitive and well -paid grants  in Europe and were designed 
to support outstanding academics to pursue their cutting -edge research.  
b. ‘Preparing for Horizon Europe Projects’ (PHEP) : Preparation course for the application to 
European projects with a special focus on impact.  
 12. Promotion of Interdisciplinarity and Science Communication  
a. Santander /NOVA  Award : Collaborative research a ward which aims to distinguish research 
projects to be developed by junior researchers from at least two NOVA schools.  
b. Science Day @NOVA : NOVA's annual Science Meeting brings together faculty, researchers 
and PhD students and includes a showcase of the research work conducted by research units 
and collaborative laboratories.   
 
21 
 c. NOVA Science  Magazin e: Annual publication that covers all scientific activities that occur at 
NOVA and shares them with the NOVA Community and its national and international partners.  
 13. Merit Reward  
Implementation of merit reward measures which may take the form of salary compensation, 
career advancement, praises and honourable  mentions, or awards.   
 14. HR Development and Individual Contracting Regulations  
General policy of concentrating on strategic areas, rejuvenating the faculty, hiring HR and, in 
particular, Academics, with an international profile, and attracting, rewarding and retaining 
talent; it must include career progressions and new hires. In this context, hiring u nder NOVA's 
institutional application for scientific employment is particularly relevant . 
For Staff 
 15. Specialized Training at National Level  
Approval of a three -year training plan, tailored to the needs of non -teaching staff, that takes 
into account the training needs identified in performance appraisal, as well as the need to 
strengthen skills particularly relevant within the framework of this  Strategic Plan.  
 16. Specialized Training at International Level  
International mobility processes  will be maintained to ensure attendance of specialized training 
courses in an international environmen t, including the use of Erasmus + grants  for staff . 
 17. Merit and Productivity Awards  
Performance appraisal awards will be implemented and three merit and productivity awards 
will be created and delivered each year, two awards for each of the following areas: 
Teamwork , Administrative Modernization ; Social Involvement  / Sustainability . 
For the NOVA  Community  
 18. NOVA Community in the World  
As part of the University's internationalization strategy, the NOVA Comm unity in the World 
(composed by current and former students, scholars , collaborators, NOVA partners from 
academia, business  sector and civil society)  emerges as an important  tool to better understand  
the dynamics of alumni career paths, support more efficient placement of new talent in the 
labor market and broaden the range of collaborations . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
 LEARNING @NOVA  
 
MISS ION 
To support NOVA in adopting a diversified but coordinated policy t hat will  ensure that its 
educational provision is kept in the forefront  of European universities, guarantee a top public 
service provision and make the best possible use of the opportunities created by the growing 
need for university education that adequately resp onds to the challenges of the 21st century 
job market.  
 
OBJE CTIVES 
 To conduct an evaluation of NOVA's training offer  every four years , considering six key 
components (listed below),  as well as English language teaching policy, financial 
sustainability of that training  offer and  new learning  opportunities;  
 To define a set of initiatives to be im plemented  as a result of that evaluation, as well as 
the necessary resources and the timetable for their implementation ; 
 To support NOVA schools in the implementatio n of those initiativ es. 
 
APPROACH  
While  the Talent @NOVA Program has a component regarding training that focuses on the 
acquisition of skills, either on the student side or on the teacher side, the Learning@ NOVA 
Program is no so much focused on the actors in the training p rocess (teachers and students) , 
but rather on  NOVA's training offer , its cycles of studies (1st, 2nd or 3rd Cycles) and non -
degree training ( particular ly lifelong learning).  
In today ’s world , where knowledge content and training needs are constantly changing, 
maintaining the level of excellence of training  offer requires constant attention to the 
performance of various components of that offer and, equally important, the  ability to 
innovate.  
In this context, it is fair to assume that a 21st century training offer delivered in the European 
Union, where the so -called 'Bologna Process' is fully implemented, has to consider six 
components : 
1. Pedagogic al innovation 
It refers to the use of the latest technological innovation s and aims to provide students with an 
enriching  and progressively  hybrid learning experience  (blended learning ), combining 
classroom interaction with increasingly wide r access to digital content, such as the flipped 
classroom  method, in which  the contents to be transmitted/ discussed are previously known by 
the student. One way to tailor classroom interaction to the characteristics of today's generation  
of students, 'always on the web' , is to concil iate the Bring Your Own D evice approach with t he 
use of clicker platforms (eg Webclicker, Quora, Slido). ). This model of pedagogical innovation 
will progressively come into existence as a distinctive element of NOVA's teaching offer in all 
its strategic cycles  of studies and, whe re appropriate, in no n-degree  training.  
 
 
23 
 2. Internationalization of the core curriculum  
It concerns the course content and must be present in all cycles  of studies , since it is a necessary 
condition for the European and even global reading of any curriculum offer. But in the case of 
NOVA, it also requires a supplementary policy regarding the language in which the cycle of 
studies will be taught (Portuguese and /or English ), with particular emphasis on increasing the 
number of courses  offered in English language . 
3. Presence of complementary training in addition to core  curriculum  
It refers to  the existence of  training in the 1st cycles of studies  (the current undergraduate 
degrees)  that provides a comprehensive  knowledge , and both culturally and historically 
sensitive,  of contempor aneity and its great challenges . The 1st cycles ‘of Bologna’ must have 
a broad profile and do not seek merely , not even primarily, the employability of their 
graduates, unlike the former  educational system (pre -Bologna).  
4. Presen ce of credits aimed at fostering employability and entrepreneurship  
It refers to the existence of  complementary training  in the 2nd cycles of studies  (the current 
Master ’s degrees ) aimed at promoting entry into  working life; unlike the  pre-Bologna Master’s 
degrees , which aimed to provide a f irst step towards specialized and autonomous research.   
5. Connection to Research  
It means that  the 3rd cycles of studies  (the current PhDs) will be  focused on  specialized and 
autonomous  scientific research, but increasingly linked to  the business  sector  and to the 
economy. The current 3rd c ycles cannot , and should not , be intended to provide employment 
at the University. Firstly,  because it is simply impossible to 'absorb' all new Ph.D. graduates  as 
University resources. Secondly, because it is part of NOVA’s excellence to have a resolutely 
non-endogamous policy regardi ng the hiring of human  resources and, equally important, it is 
part of the excellence of its activity to 'produce' Ph.D. graduates  who will be absorbed by 
companies, by the public service and by the economic  fabric in general , for example, by 
creating thei r own business themselves. Certainly , there will always be a number of Ph.D. 
graduates  who will be integrated into the University, but this will not be the general rule.  
6. Lifelong Learning : (re)training  of skills  
Lifelong learning is cur rently  a must -have in any leading university and it is an integral and 
central part of the European Union's policy for H igher Education. Nowadays, employment is 
global and mobile, if not precarious; and digital transformation has made several  activities 
within a job become obsolete or even the job itself. At the same time, the exponential evolution 
of knowledge and technology creates the need for recertification of skills or acquisition of new 
skills. And all this new lifelong learning must be centred  on the user s’ interests , ensuring as much 
as possible that they do not have to give up their job to do so. Therefore , this training  must be 
very focused and rigorous, but also very flexible and mobile, reaching the students  when they 
need it and wherever they are , without compromising its quality. Distance learning or the 
combination of distance learning and classroom learning are fundamental here.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 NOVA DIGITAL  
 
MISS ION 
To embrac e the challenge of digital transformation at NOVA as part of its mission to serve 
society through knowledge and value creation, without prejudice to its values of freedom, 
pluralism, responsibility and to the impact that digital transformation can have on  those values.  
 
OBJECTI VES 
 To develop the digital area at NOVA, in broad sense, as an 'interdisciplinary cement' of 
all areas of  knowledge, including digital, which is an area of knowledge in accelerated 
development ; 
 To include a strong digital and data science component that is tailored to the specific 
activities of each campus and support s the smart  specialization of the activities taking place 
there;  
 To create ways of connecting the campuses, physical ly or virtua lly, that allow the circulation 
of digital experts among them and the coordination of academic activities.  
 
APPROACH  
A. Digital Transformation of Teaching and Learning  
Goal:  
 To have a network of equipment and services, spread across the various campuses, and 
open to the entire NOVA community,  that allow s easy access to digital teaching and 
learning resources.  
Activities: 
 Assessment of the existing equipment and services that support the digital transformation 
of NOVA's teaching , and of services and equipment that may be used by NOVA;  
 Contracting of shared services in which  each school  contracts with the Rector ate what it 
receives in return to make its services available to the entire University ; 
 Teacher s upport in the development of pedagogical methods using digital technologies ; 
 Creat ion of a competition of teachers with good pedagogical practices based on the use 
of digital technologies;   
 Dissemination across NOVA of good practice s, together  with the use of the equipment and 
services  catalog . 
B. NOVA Digital  Forum  
Goal: 
 Interdisciplinary forum that will foster collaboration between researchers from various 
fields of knowledge and from various NOVA schools , and increasingly affirm NOVA as a 
leading player at national level, and internationally relevant , in the production o f 
knowledge for the digital transformation of society . 
 
 
 
25 
 Activities: 
 Organize a workshop on 'Artificial intelligence, big data and impact on society', with 
the participation of researchers from various NOVA schools  working in these areas 
and of a prestigious international scholar ; 
 Establish a working group, with members from all NOVA schools , to define 
interdisciplinary themes and challenges for NOVA researchers, aimed at organiz ing one 
or two more workshops and following up the forum;  
 Organize workshops on 'Digital Research in Biotechnology', 'Digital Research in 
Finance and Law', 'Digital Research for Social Innovation', 'Digital Research in 
Humanities', with the participation of NOVA researchers interested in these areas and 
of three prestigious international scholar s. 
C. NOVA Smart Campus Living Lab  
Goal: 
 Increase the digital experience of NOVA campuses and make them more efficient, 
serving as a testing ground for new projects in this area proposed by students and 
academics, which will leverage value creation initiatives in society.  
Activities: 
 Define the operating model of the program and, together with the Entrepreneurship 
office , define the intellectual property model of what will be produced;  
 Seek business partnerships for the progra m; 
 Create , at least in one campus ( Campolide ), a Smart Campus infrastructure that  will 
enable the development of experimental projects ; 
 Promote  idea contests and project contests that support value creation.  
D. Information Systems  
Goal: 
 Develop NOVA's information systems in order to dematerialize administrative 
processes and integrate the different operating support systems, enabling the 
extraction of knowledge relevant to decision making at various management levels 
and increasing the qu ality and efficiency of administrative processes.  
Activities: 
 Acquire and implement a new document management system throughout NOVA ; 
 Implement the electronic invoicing system, integrated with ERP and other systems, 
namely the academic management  system ; 
 Put all ERP components into full operation and develop management support maps;  
 Define the data integration model of the various academic management systems and 
develop a system for extraction and visualization of indicators  based on these data;  
 Implement an aggregating academic management system that collects data from the 
systems of the various NOVA schools  and which in time could  eventually be used as an 
academic system for interaction with students and faculty  by those who wish to do so.  
  
 
26 
 NOV A IMPACT  
 
MISS ION 
Contribute to the social and economic development of the country, with the least possible 
ecological footprint, by supporting and developing initiatives that add value, whether it is 
social or economic value, based on the knowledge produced at NOVA.  
 
OBJE CTIVES 
 Develop an interface institution dedicated to knowledge transfer and social innovation 
founded  on the link between university, industry  and social sectors, and based on the 
intensive use of digital and o ther relevant technologies;  
 Consolidate NOVA's capacity and potential to link knowledge with the country’s welfare 
and social and economic development through various collaborative initiatives.  
 Ensure a physical existence scattered across NOVA campuses, the Greater Lisb on region 
and towards the South, and a virtual existence through the 'NOVA Value Creation' digital 
platform which includes all of NOVA’s value creation hubs. 
 
APPROACH  
 NOVA Social Innova tion 
Centre  for the Valuation and Transfer of Social Innovation Technology, which aims to establish a 
differentiated and permanent relation, but equally flexible and dynamic, between institutions 
that produce social knowledge (NOVA) and social sector entities (local companies, NGOs, 
municipalities, non -profit associations, among others) in order to develop, create and improve 
social structures and processes and contribute to the development and social harmony of the 
population.  
It will be a technology -based social inn ovation hub, based on the Campolide campus ( NOVA 
School of Social Sciences and Humanities and NOVA Information and Management School) , 
with a hub at the Carcavelos campus (NOVA School of Business and Economics, NOVA School of 
Law). It will include the part icipation of the remaining schools and may create more hubs at other 
NOVA campuses towards the south.  
The impact of NOVA Social Innovation  will be, prima facie , in the Greater Lisbon area, where 
NOVA  has its various campuses , but it may be extend ed further  to the south.  
 CoLabs  
Associations of research units, higher education institutions, companies, intermediate and 
interface institutions, technology centres, business associations and partners in the productive, 
social and cultural sectors . In addition to c oordinating InnovPlantProtect and Value4Health, 
NOVA also participates in 8 more collaborative laboratories and foresees the creation of 
additional CoLabs . 
 Interface  Institutions  
Institutions that bridge the gap between knowledge and the need for business innovation.  
 
27 
  Science and Technology Parks,  Incuba tion Centres and Acceleration Centres  
Their mission is to facilitate the incubation and development of innovative ideas and concepts 
and to accelerate the commercialization process of these projects. The creation of the Bio -
technology and Life Sciences  (Oeiras) and Industry 4.0  (Almada) parks is expected soon. 
 
NOVA Impact  also intends to develop the following activity segments, some of which will 
require the existence of permanently dedicated spaces:  
 Promot ion of  applied research activities, where groups of researchers from various 
disciplines develop interdisciplinary approaches to urgent issues in the collaborative 
agendas designed with the industry and social sectors . This will give rise to pilot sol utions 
to business or social problems;  
 Support for the protection of Intellectual Property and knowledge produced at NOVA and 
its economic and social enhancement, which includ es promoting the creation of spin -off 
companies and transfer ring technology to es tablished companies;  
 Incubation of start -ups and co -work in the area of technological or social innovation;  
 Acceleration of technological or social innovation  start-ups; 
 Training and capacity building in technological  innovation or technology -based  social 
innovation  for companies, public sectors, social services, NGOs or citizens;  
 Showcasing of the initiatives and results of technological or social innovation, or 
present ation of  anchor projects for future activities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
 LIVING@NOVA  
 
MISS ION 
To make NOVA campuses become  open, functional but also enjoyable knowledge sharing 
spaces where people inside and outside the NOVA Community can interact with each other 
and participate in cultural, physical  and compassionate activitie s, making university life more 
complete and enriching.  
 
OBJETIV E 
The challenges of university life make it necessary to invest in the comfort and well -being of 
all those who are part of the NOVA Community, particular ly the students, who are the reason 
why this University  exists, in order to enhance the existing talent and the value created  in this 
innovation ecosystem.    
 
APPROACH  
Social Welfare Services  have a decisive and transversal role in the quality of life of NOVA 
campuses, and interven e particul arly in 6 areas of activity: Sport s, Culture, Special Funding , 
Human Development, Accommodation and Food.  
 
SPORTS  
Mission: Create enabling conditions for sports at Campolide, Caparica and Carcavelos  
campuses, supporting student athletes, and promoting physical activity, leisure, and a 
healthier lifestyle.  
 
CULTUR E 
Mission: Organize  cultural activities aimed at NOVA students and additional stude nt 
populations, as well as other activities  that open up the university to the municipalities where 
it is located, promoting  its image with in the community, as well as consolidating relations  
with NOVA academics, Student Associations, Student Centres and Resident Committees, to 
support their own initiatives.   
 
SPECIAL FUNDING  
Mission: Manage and apply the Social Support Fund by identifying NOVA students in need 
of other educational support ('NOVA Solidarity' grant), and make NOVA campuses more 
'Family Friendly' by promoting staff and student access to nurseries through the construction 
of adequate facilities  or negotiation of protocols in the various municipalities where NOVA 
is located.  
 
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT  
 Volunt eer Work  
Mission: Promote student collaboration within the framework of a social accountability 
policy, promote partnerships and protocols with public and private institutions in order to 
boost a ‘Volunteer Bank’, providing students with extracurricular activities  that ca n be used 
for education in citizenship.  
 
 
 
29 
  Welcome and Integration  
Mission: Promote welcoming and integration policies for NOVA students, especially 
displaced students and students with Special Educational Needs.  
 
 Health Promotion  
Mission: Ensure students (first and foremost to all  displaced students ) psychiatr ic 
appointments , psychological support and nutrition consultations; ensure referral for family 
planning consultation under existing collaboration protocols; collaborate with preventive 
health programs  and campaigns aimed at  improv ing health conditions and personal 
development; promote cooperation protocols with healt h facilities that allow student  access 
to health care under advantageous conditions.   
 
ACCOMMODATION  
Mission: Ensure students with scholarship s full access to housing through the following 
measures: granting the three existing residences to private entities, by means of a financial 
contribution, guaranteeing room reservation for NOVA students  with scholarship s; building 
a new residenc e in partnership with ISCTE  in order to provide  housing for the remaining 
NOVA students seeking accommodation; and moving forward with the 2nd phase of  the 
‘Frausto da Silva ’ Student Residence .  
 
FOOD  
Mission: Promote access to food for NOVA students and staff through canteens, cafeterias 
and bars, in particular by  re-evaluating the situation regarding the existing canteens . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERDISCIPLINA RY 
PLATFORMS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT  | NOVA 4 the Globe  
 
RATIONAL  
 
The Importance of the Sustainable Development Goals   
In 2015, the United Nations unanimously approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development containing 17 goals. The SDG  address the global challenges we face  nowadays , 
including those related to poverty, inequality, climate change and environmental degradation, 
prosperity and peace and justice. Each SDG includes several targets  which are interconnect ed 
to support ea ch other. In order not to leave anyone behind, it is important to reach each target  
by 2030. Formulated as real challenges to policy making, planning and concerted chain 
reaction,  the SDG  also depend crucially on advances in knowledge, innovation and train ing. 
It is in this context that Universities are called upon to focus their triple mission also regarding 
the SDG . Due to  the gigantism  of its dimension , it is obvious that this is a task that can only be 
done collaboratively, involving partners of multipl e natures, each contributing only very 
partially to the SDG . 
 
The SDG and NOVA’s Internationalization  
Research with an impact on the SDG can be an important catalyst for NOVA's 
internationalization, whether by sharing knowledge and technology with other institutions, 
establishing international strategic partnerships, or by influencing policy makers, companies, 
and consumers through knowledg e. NOVA's commitment to the SDG  is also  beneficial  for its 
internationalization strategy by increasing international visibility, enhancing the international 
profile, creating networking opportunities and improving curricula.  
 
NOVA 4 the Globe  
At NOVA, 'sustainability' means seeking solutions to the main challenges regarding  individual, 
social and institutional developmen t. These solutions must be economically viable, environmentally 
friendly and socially fair so that current and future generations can accomplish  their projects  and 
have a better future . NOVA already has diverse and scattered academic groups that are involved 
in interdisciplinary projects guided by the 2030 Agenda. It is therefore urgent to capitalize on 
these existing assets, support them and develop them in the right direction. On the other hand, 
several NOVA institutional practices already promote many of the SDG . It was by c ombining these 
two aspects, impact research and institutional practice, that NOVA 4 the Globe  was born: a 
permanent and cross -sectional international platform wher e groups from NOVA and other 
universities will work colla boratively to produce knowledge  and impact that support the goals of 
the 2030 Agenda globally, with a particular focus on the Portuguese -speaking countries . 
NOVA 4 the Globe will have a triple existe nce: physical and scattered  across NOVA schools (since 
that is where research groups are) with or without dedicated 'aggregating spaces'; physic al and 
'outside the walls' of NOVA, in Portugal or in other regions  where NOVA groups are involved  in 
projects w ith impact on the SDG ; virtual, through a digital platform that aggregates all 
interdisciplinary projects and ensures the external communication of the activities that promote 
NOVA as a Sustainable University . 
 
 
32 
 MISS ION 
Bringing together NOVA's 'strong areas' in an interdisciplin ary approach focused on the SDG  
and guided by concrete missions.  
 
OBJE CTIVE 
To become part of a network of European universities and global partnerships that develop 
interdisciplinary research with high social and economic impact . And to be come, at the national 
level, the leading university in the commitment to sustainable development.  
 
APPROACH  
 Teaching  
Doctorates, Masters, Advanced Training Courses, Capacity Building  Activities. All with 
interdisciplinary scope, whether it is based on training already available in NOVA's portfolio, 
or on new training programs ; 
 Research  
Centered on the 2030 Agenda, m ission-oriented  (in compliance with the Horizon Europe  
framework ) and project -based. Interdisciplinary, collaborative and developed in international 
networks;  
 Value Creation  
Includes: knowledge and technology transfer, capacity building of institutions and people, 
studies and dissemination activities, through collaboration with national and international 
universities, compan ies and NGO . The value creation a ctivity will have a  special emphasis  on 
Europe and on Portuguese -speaking countries . 
 
NOVA 4 the Globe  will have a double focus : 
 Academic Practice, which will reflect all knowledge with impact produced by  NOVA. 
Under the H orizon 2020 and Horizon Europe  frameworks , NOVA participates in projects 
that have an impact on almost all SDG, but particular ly on SDG 3 – Good Health and Well -
Being, SDG 5 - Gender Equality, SDG6 - Clean Water and Sanitation , SDG7 – Affordable 
and Clean  Energy, SDG9 - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure and SDG11 - Sustainable 
Cities and Communities.  
 Institu tional  Practice , which will be articulated  through official NOVA policies and echo in 
initiatives aligned with t he SDG  which will be regularly monitored. The following goals are 
currently targeted: SDG3 - Good  Health and Wel l-Being , SDG4 - Quality Education, 
SDG9 - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, SDG11 - Sustainable Cities and 
Communities, SDG13 - Climate Action and SDG16 - Peace, Justice and Strong  Institutions.  
 
It is particularly worth mentioning NOVA’s participation in SDG 5 - Gender Equality  through  
a Horizon 2020 project ( https://gender -spear.eu/ ). It aims to develop institutional changes to 
increase wo men's participation in Research  and Innovation, and also to improve their career 
prospects, with particular emphasis on Higher Education, based on the implementation of 
Gender Equality Plans. As in many reputable  universities, the goal is  to create an Equal 
Opportunities Office  to implement equal opportunity promotion plans in all NOVA schools .  
 
33 
 NOVA  HEALTH  
 
RATIONAL  
The issues regarding ‘m ore and better health and well -being' are some of the most important 
challenges for the 21st century , not only  at national level, but also  EU level and even globally 
- the third goal of the UN ’ 2030 Agenda is precisely ' to ensure healthy lives and promote well -
being for all  at all ages'. The NOVA Health Platform was created to aggregate and enhance 
the many strengths  that NOVA has in the health area, in several of its schools , which can be 
further developed through strategic collaborations focused on missions that create value for 
society.  
 
MISS ION  
To create health value through scientific production, knowledge dissemination and 
implementation of innovative solutions that are useful for the health of populations. It will be  
particularly  strategic for the accomplishment of this mission to promote resear ch collaborations 
between NOVA's academic units, as well as to establish partnerships with industry and society, 
focused on research missions, with a clear  purpose of address ing concrete problems.  
 
OBJE CTIVE 
NOVA must become an even more relevant partner i n the H ealth area, increasing its impact 
on research  and on  health solutions at national, European and global level.  
 
APPROACH  
COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH GROUPS  
 AGEING   
It aims to increase research, knowledge and innovation in the field of ag eing and related 
conditions to promote an active and healthy ag eing. Therefore, it relies on the knowledge 
and skills of different partners, involving them in initiatives of knowledge and experience 
sharing, as well as involving other stakeholders in innova tive projects. The purpose is to 
promote a healthy living among  the elderly through innovative projects and research of 
excellence with local, national and international impact.  
 
 NUTRITION  
It aims to model the obesogenic environment, integrating the knowle dge produced in 
academia, from a multidisciplinary perspective (health sciences, social sciences, legal sciences, 
environmental  sciences, economic sciences, food sciences  and communication sciences), and 
outlining strategies to promote healthy eating with the aim to prevent some diseases related 
to nutritional deviations and improve the nutritional profile of the population.  
 
 CHRONIC DISEASE AND INFECTION  
It aims to foste r scientific, academic and social discussion of cross -cutting issues related to 
chronic diseases and infection , at the frontiers of science and global health , by contributing 
to the SDG. The research challenge will be to contribute to a better understandin g of the 
strength s and dynamics between infection and chronic diseases in order to develop better 
and more sustainable solutions to these problems through  science -based and evidence -based 
knowledge.   
 
 
34 
  VALUE IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH AND CARE  
It aims to study the science of value creation in health, finding  solutions with practical 
application. It requires the assessment of h ealth outcomes and associated costs, the 
improvement of health literacy, and the use of remote data monitoring and transmission 
solutions , making it possible to  follow  patients' clinical situation  from a distance , for instance 
in their homes . 
 
 CLIMATE CHANGE IMPACT ON PUBLIC HEALTH  
Visa investigar a relação entre as mudanças climáticas e a globalização da economia e a 
saúde das populações, bem como os respetivos determinantes da doença.  
 
 TROPICAL HEALTH  
It aims to promote the training, research and clinical practice of tropical diseases, including 
neglected tropical diseases, (re) emerging infections, diagnostic innovation and therapeutic 
innovation, and molecular epidemiology.  
 
 HEALTHCARE DYNAMICS  
This strategic area incorporates the following subdivisions: (). Esta área estratégica 
incorpora as seguintes subdivisões :  
 Integrated Care  (create and disseminate research activities on the implementation of 
integrated, transdisciplinary and innovative solutions that have an impact on the health 
of populations and individuals );  
 Migration and Heal th (promote collaborative research and knowledge to address the 
challenges of human mobility and migratory flows regarding  health conditions, disease 
prevalence and health care systems ); 
 Quality  Improvement and Pati ent Safety  (develop research, knowledge and innovation 
in the field of health care quality and safety , and related areas );  
 Healt h Systems and Policies  (promote health policy research, especially in Portugal, 
Europe and in Portuguese -speaking countries , through a rigorous analysis of health systems 
in several  countries, and by working in partnership with research centres and international 
organizations, in particular the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies  of 
the World Health Organizatio n). 
 
 
NOVA INSTITUT E FOR PRECISION MEDICIN E 
 
MISSION  
It aims to develop collaborative and interdisciplinary research in the field of biology and 
health sciences, with practical, clinical and global health applications, including biomedical 
engineering, thus improv ing citizens' lives and quality of life. It also aims to group  NOVA's 
research efforts in the area of precision biomedicine to reduce overlaps and enhance 
synergies, and guide research towards well -defined missions.  
 
OBJE CTIVE S 
 Boost NOVA's r ole at the forefront of technological innovation in the intersection of life 
sciences, nanotechnology, nanomaterials and medical research of high translational impact 
into clinical practice;  
 Promote innovative research strategies and their application in promoting healthy aging  
 
35 
  Support and update  scientific, human and physical resources to reinforce NOVA's prominent 
role in expanding fundamental knowledge in medical and life sciences;  
 Increase NOVA's national leadership and international networking capacit y to promote the 
well-being of the population;  
 Strengthen and support NOVA's team of scientists in raising the necessary funding for the 
development of cutting -edge research;  
 Improve NOVA's responsiveness to the critical challenges of our Society in the fi eld of 
precision medicine ; 
 Sustain a creative and entrepreneurial environment that promotes value creation and 
ensures high return on research investment;  
 Promote the highest level of scientific integrity, public accountability and social 
responsibility in  the conduct of biomedical science.  
 
RESEARCH A REAS  
NOVA Institute for Precision Medicine  will focus on six key research areas : 
 Physical and cognitive disability  
 Metabolic and inflammatory dysfunction  
 (Re)Emerging i nfections 
 Diagnostic innovation  
 Therapeutic Innovation  
 Precision Public Health  
 
COLLABORATIVE LABORAT ORY: VALUE4HEALTH.COLAB  
 
MISS ION  
The founding partnership of this CoLAB is an applied research institution led by Nova  
University Lisbon in partnership with José de Mello Saúde , Vodafone and Fraunhofer , and with 
the support of the Central Lisbon Hospital Center and the International Consortium for Health 
Outcomes Measurement . Its mission is to  develop and implement Valued -Based Healthcare 
(VBH) methodologies that are expected to  address health challenges , mostly related to 
ageing, chronic disease, innovation and cost spiraling in health care.  
 
OBJE CTIVES 
 Create transdisciplinary knowledge focused on VBH development;  
 Stimulate the implementation of VBH methodologies at the level of the main disease 
trajectories identified for the European context, and demonstrate their social and economic 
impact;  
 Develop and validate monitoring technologies (to be explo red in the market) aimed at  
disseminating VBH practices;  
 Create scientific empl oyment in the health sector (notably at industry level) through the 
explo ration of services and products that will be developed in the  CoLAB.  
 
  
 
36 
 INSTITUTE FOR ART AND TECHNOLOGY  
 
RATIONAL  
In the Greater Lisbon region there is no center of artistic creation dedicated to both 
valorization and transfer of technology linked to the Arts. In Portugal there are other art -
related research centers, but they do not really  have either a solid technolo gy base or an 
international dimension. The NOVA Institute for Art & Technology (NOVA IA&T) will address  
this gap by presenting its own scientific and pedagogical program, guided by the great issues 
of the 21st century and their connection to art and techno logy: environment; urban space; 
equalit y; health and ag eing; fake -news; inclusion; race; becoming vs. belonging; coloniality; 
hearing impairment  studies; empowerment; the libidinal and sex; the post-humans ; the 
animality; among others.  
Located  in the former Trafaria  Prison , which will be completely remodelled and adapted for 
this purpose, NOVA IA&T will have its initiatives in close and permanent interaction with the 
population of Trafaria and Almada, and in alignment with the objectives of the Almada  
municipal government . It will be a space open for the inclusion of the various local communitie s 
and an ecosystem for the qualification of the population and  of the surrounding area, capable 
of driving the social development and the economy of the region.  
In order to carry out its institutional project in the best possible conditions, NOVA IA&T will 
take the collaborative form of a consortium, promoted and directed by NOVA, through NOVA 
School of Sciences and Technology and NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities , with 
the contribution of various academic, business, institutional and international partners. Most 
consortium partners will have a physical presence on campus, which will be adjusted to their 
participation in the activities to be developed. The sustainability of NOVA IA&T's activity will 
depend on the contribution of its various partners, as well as on the results of the various 
activities developed there.  
 
MISS ION 
Develop, through training, research, innovation and service deliver y, in an international context 
of excellence, the artistic creation of products and services that incorporate an aesthetic or 
design dimension based on technology in all its forms. Serving this mission means to consider 
the innovative ways in which art, in  its interface with technology, has faced and enhanced the 
challenges and problems of the contemporary world, namely those concerning social justice, 
ecological sustainability and economic development.  It also means to underlin e the import ance 
of the dynam ic relation  between the social sciences, art, culture and technology to find solutions 
and overcom e such problems . 
 
OBJE CTIVE 
To be come an internationally renowned School of Arts and Technology with high impact on local 
society and on the national  economy. NOVA  IA&T will be focused  on promoting cutting -edge 
teaching and experimentation; curricular mobility; teacher and student heterogeneity; visiting 
artists; widespread  sustainability; internationalization and start -up companies.  
NOVA IA&T will pro mote intercultural dialogue between different social groups, especially, 
but not exclusively, in the Almada area and among the youth  population. The remodeling of 
the Trafaria Prison should provide an inspiring environment for training and transformative 
research and benefit the local community.  
 
37 
 APPROACH  
NOVA IA&T will focus on qualified training and laboratorial  research  (problem -based & 
project driven) , oriented towards the development of research, design and production projects, 
in different artistic areas and integrating a strong technological component. Thus, the main 
areas of activity of NOVA IA&T are:  
Training : advanced, intermediate and initial training courses, which might  be converted into 
credits for cycles of studies at NOVA and other partner universities, and creation of a master's 
and doctoral degree s that will serve as an anchor  to the cross-cutting activity.  
Research : focused on design and experimentation projects and therefore based on 
technological and artistic laboratories such as the Ci nema and Visual Arts Lab, Digital Arts 
Lab, Fashion and Design Lab, Performance and Performing Arts Lab, Sound and Musical Arts 
Lab, Heritage and Urban Studies Lab, Critical Studies Lab, and the 'Street Lab' . The ‘Street 
Lab’ results from the confluence of the other Labs and serves as an interface with the wider 
community, particularly the local youngsters , by supporting them in their art and technology 
projects or promoting their training  and capacity building .  
Innovation: focused on  creating value at the product, service and environmental levels and 
aligned with the needs of national and foreign companies  and various social sectors, which 
will build the 'innovation agenda'.  
Service Delivery : to the surrounding community and society at large through the organization 
of events (festivals, exhibitions, conferences, thematic cycles); consultancy; customization of 
products , among other services.  
  
INTERNA TIONAL  NETWORK  
Collaboration protocols with international partners of great strategic relevance: University of 
the Arts London, University of Texas at Austin, University of Art and Design (Austria), New York 
University, 'T -Factor’ consortium, UNICA - Network of Universities from the Capitals of Europe 
and partnerships in Central a nd South America.  
In addition to these partnerships, NOVA IA&T is already developing contacts with the 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México and the Universidad de Guadalajara (Mexico), 
the Universidad Nacional de las Artes (Argentina), and several Brazi lian institutions, including 
the Fundação Roberto Marinho and Rede Globo. The aim is to position NOVA IA&T and NOVA 
as relevant actors  in the North -South artistic dialogue, and to make Trafaria, as well as the 
surrounding region, become a multicultural and  broadminded meeting point.  
 
COMMUNITY  
NOVA IA&T will be a diverse, inclusive and creative international community that includes:  
 Resident  teams of academics (mainly young teachers and researchers);  
 Resident students ; 
 Temporary Resident Artists  
 Visiting academic students (domestic and foreign);  
 Visiting students in training ; 
 Technology -based artistic start -ups; 
 Permanent hubs of artistic associations and companies (national and foreign)  
 Other rotating groups, permanent  or visiting, involved in research or  innovation 
projects.  
 
38 
 NOVA HOSPITALITY FUTURES PLATFORM  
 
RATIONAL  
When it comes to 'hospitality' we think mainly of tourism -related industries and their great and 
growing importance in the national and global economy. This is undoubtedly a very relevant 
perspective. But in modern times, 'hospitality' has a broader sense of 'consumer experience' or 
'consumer centrality', which cuts across multiple industries, from retail to automotive , to arts 
and, of course, to tourism.  
Portugal aims to stand out  in the w orld of tourism and hospitality, where there has been an 
increasing ly growing  demand. Tourism accounts for 12.5% of the Portuguese GDP. The official 
policy of Portugal’s Agency for To urism is to make  tourism become  a hub of economic, social 
and environme ntal development throughout the territory, placing  Portugal as one of the most 
competitive and sustainable world destinations.  
However, existing training  and innovation in Portugal in the field of Hospitality and Tourism is 
not compatible with this ambition and, in particular, does not have the appropriate 
internationalization dimension, nor the interdisciplinary approach that is required.  
On the other hand, NOVA is a Portuguese public university with particularly high  international 
profile and inter disciplinary capacity. In addition, NOVA's strategy includes two key aspects : 
to federate dispersed scientific knowledge into its various schools , focusing it on projects of 
major academic and public interest; and  to promote innovation with significant eco nomic 
relevance and social impact.  
Recently, NOVA signed an important consortium protocol for the establishment of a Tourism 
Excellence Centre, based in Estoril, in which participate, besides NOVA , another  higher 
education institution, polytechnic  (Estoril  Higher Institute  for Tourism and Hotel Studies)  and a 
newly created research centre  (CITUR), among  non-academic institutions, such as Turismo de 
Portugal, Grupo Pestana, VIP Hotels, Porto Bay, Vila Galé, Hilton Group , SANA Group, Estoril  
Sol, NAU Hotels & Resorts, Delta Café, and many others.  
In addition, several NOVA schools  have a development strategy that includes , to a certain 
extent,  the area of hospitality, almost always focusing on tourism . As a result , new hiring , 
financing and training development in those areas  have been initiated . 
Thus, the idea of creating a platform on hospitality and tourism  took shape. The goal of this 
platform is to aggregate  the activity of each NOVA school in these areas, coordinate  these 
initiatives and , above all, develop its own initiatives that articulate interdisciplinary projects 
within the University , bringing together NOVA  schools  and both national  and international  
partners. These initiatives could be in the area of traini ng as well as in research  and 
innovation . More than just having  specific training in tourism and hospitality, NOVA wants to 
step into the hospitality and tourism areas by taking full advantage of its many  skills in 
disciplines that support the most innovat ive initiatives in these areas, from digital to health, 
from heritage to management, including various others.  
 
 
 
 
 
39 
 MISS ION 
The NOVA Hospitality Futures Platform  (HFP) will be a platform that brings together  several  
knowledge areas of NOVA - from management, to data and computing, health, culture and 
the arts - to create and disseminate  knowledge and foster innovation  on hospitality, in its many 
forms . 
 
OBJE CTIVES 
1. Offer a space for training  and creativity at the service of the community in the area 
of hospitality, in its various terms;   
2. Develop partnerships with industry, government institutions and national and 
international academic institutions that enable NOVA HFP to play a relevant ro le in 
transforming society through innovation, dialogue and knowledge;  
3. Contribute, as a centre of excellence, to the development of the local, regional and 
global economic fabric.  
 
APPROACH  
NOVA HF P will carry out three types of activities:  
- Advanced Training : Multidisciplinary training focused on innovation aimed at 
individuals or organizations. This training may be degree -awarding, at the master or 
doctorate level, or take the form of executive programs . 
- Innovation  Platform: Hot-spot research labs fo cused on multidisciplinary research, 
with a strong connection to Industry, that promote innovation, creativity and R&D for 
the tourism and hospitality industry in general.  
- Incubation  Platform : Incubation services for Level A start-ups, based on research 
laborator ies. 
 
These activities will be developed in close association with companies and organizations, with 
Turismo de Portugal and will be supported by leading international partners such as  the École 
Hôtelière de Lausanne and the Fraunhofer Foundation,  as well as the Estoril Higher Institute 
for Tourism and Hotel Studies , among others.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATEGIC  
INSTRUMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 
 The accomplishment  of NOVA's Vision and Strategic Goals  requires a permanent commitment 
to two areas considered instrumental in this process:  high quality, both in the University's 
fundamental areas, as in the areas of support , and internal and external communication with 
greater strategic alignm ent: 
 
NOVA SIMAQ  
 
MISS ION 
Design and implement NOVA's Internal Quality Monitoring and Evaluation System (NOVA 
SIMAQ).  
 
OBJETIV ES 
 Contribute to the continuous quality improvement at NOVA  by monitoring its activities;  
 Address the legal requirement established by the Higher Education Eval uation and 
Accreditation Agency for higher education institutions to establish their own certifiable 
quality assurance systems .  
 
NATURE  
NOVA SIMAQ is structured in several areas, covering :  
 the areas that correspond to the fundamental domains of the system: Teaching and 
Learning; Research  and Development; Inter -institutional and Community Collaboration; and 
Internationalization, which is extended  across  the other domains ; 
 the support areas for the previous domains, corresponding to activities carried out at the 
Departments, Research and Development Centers, Services and Partner Entities.  
 
This system will be developed in close collaboration with NOVA schools, the Rector ate and the 
Social Welfare Services . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 
 NOVA COM MUNICA TION  
 
RATIONAL  
NOVA is a comprehensive university, home  to a great diversity of knowledge, points of view 
and scientific cultures across  its nine schools. These schools  enjoy great scientific, pedagogical 
and administrative autonomy, which has contributed to the success of the institution  as a whole . 
In this context, it is of great importance to improve the internal and external communication of 
all the activities, accomplishments  and success stories that, somehow , elevate  NOVA ’s 
reputation  and bring  its Community closer together, motivating it to pursue  the Universit y 
Mission . 
Internally, this communication will strengthen  the ever -present and ever -growing ' collecti ve 
spirit' of the University and the articulation between the various NOVA schools , which in turn 
will enhance the activity and efforts of each one of them and, overall, NOVA’s  success . 
Externally, this communication will  serve as an eye  witness  to NOVA's responsibility to wards  
society, and to the country in general, and will enable NOVA to disseminate its activity and 
successes nationally and internationally, thereby enhancing its prestige.  
 
MISS ION 
Promote NOVA nationally and internationally, in a way that clearly reflects the identity of the 
University, and bring it closer to the main target audiences, students, academics, companies 
and society, through a communication al approach  that highlights the strengths of its main areas  
of excellence, the relati ons established with strategic partners, the confidence in its quality 
and also NOVA’s  competitive position ing.  
 
OBJE CTIVES 
 Position NOVA among the various stakeholders as a University of the Future: Global, Civic 
and Sustainable;  
 Coordinate NOVA's positioning strategy between the Rector ate and NOVA schools;  
 Strengthen the national and international visibility  of the NOVA brand in order to attract 
talent (students, academics and staff), promote graduate  employability and leverage 
fundraising initiati ves; 
 Create a smooth  and effective system of internal communication that increases a sense  of 
belonging regarding  NOVA and boosts all the main university activit ies; 
 Listen to national and foreign students  on a regular basis , involving them in University 
projects;  
 Contribute to the enhancement of the NOVA brand at national and international level.  
 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOV A IN 
NUMBER S 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
 NOVA IN NUMBERS  
 
9 Schools  
 NOVA School of Sciences and Technology   
 NOVA School of Social Sciences and Humanities   
 NOVA School of Business and Economics  
 NOVA Medical School  
 NOVA School of Law   
 NOVA Institut e of Hygiene and Tropical  Medicin e  
 NOVA Information and Management School  
 NOVA  Institute of Chemical  and Biological Technology  António Xavier  
 NOVA National School of Public Health  
226 accredited courses  
20.496  enrolled students2 
 50,8% are female  
 3.061  international students  
 Brazil (1.091), Germany  (310), It aly (210), Angola (178), Ca pe Verde (151)  
+530 international mobility partnerships  
 1.065  incoming  student s and 749 outgoing students   
39 Research Units  
 87% rated  ‘Excel lent’ o r ‘Very Good ’ 
 4.278  publica tions (2017)  
 50% of indexed scientific publica tions are international collabora tions 
 20  European Research Council  Grants  (worth +30M euros in funding )  
 97 proje cts funded by Horizon 2020 (48M euros)  
 Participa tes in 10 collaborative labs  and coordinates two of them  
143,9 M euros  of Total Revenues  (2018 ) 
 48% of General Revenues ; 31% of Own Revenues ; 10% of European Funding ; and 
12% of Government Budget for Research  
1.982  Faculty members and  697 Staff personnel  
55% of Human Resources are female  
 48% of Faculty ; 
 73% of General Staff;  
 25% of Technical Assistants.  
                                            
2 Academic Year  2017/2018  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

