 
1 of 18 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Changing Earth:  
Working Together for a Sustainable Future 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEN  YEAR –STRATEGIC PLAN  
2020 –2030 
 
 

 
2 of 18 
 
          Letter from the Dean  
 
 
Dear Colleagues & Friends  
 
Scientific challenges are becoming exceedingly complex as the Earth enters 
the Anthropocene epoch —a period of hydrological, climatological, and biological 
changes, diverging from previous cycles of global dynamics. Influenced by the 
interactions between humans and our environment, many of these changes  have had 
adverse effects of global significance. Furthermore, the limited availability of 
resources critical to human life as well as the  current  lack of local institutional 
capacities  to deal with the challenges of climate change  create an ever -increasin g 
urgency for intervention.  
  
The College of Earth, Ocean and Environment (CEOE) at the University of 
Delaware is built on a foundation of excellence in basic and applied science, with a 
50-year legacy of multidisciplinary education, research, and service in atmospheric, 
geological, ma rine, environmental, and social sciences. Bridging disciplinary and 
interdisciplinary expertise, technological innovations, and big data, the College is 
well-positioned to catalyze systems -level and convergence thinking to address Earth’s 
present and futur e grand challenges.  Through this strategic plan, CEOE will build 
upon existing strengths to provide a transformative educational experience for our 
students that  deepens their undersatnding of Earth  from a systems approach and the 
coupling of human natural system s, while  providing them with variable pathways for 
success . We will recruit and retain outstanding faculty and staff  and translate our 
research to solutions for so ciety while building an environment of inc lusive 
excellence.  
  
At this college , we have the opportunity to address vital issues facing our 
world. From  geologic hazards, to  water and food security to coastal resilience —and 
especially understanding, mitigating, and adapting to a changing climate —the most 
urgent problems of our near fu ture are ones that CEOE is uniquely equipped to study 
and influence. Looking ahead to the next 10 years, this document provides a roadmap 
for how we can maximize the good we can do as a college  and a community of 
scholars. If we fully embrace and strive to  fulfill our potential and our mission, CEOE 
will certainly make a real and profound difference in the world we all share.  
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Estella Atekwana  
Dean, College of Earth, Ocean and Environment  
  

 
3 of 18 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vision  
 
                             CEOE seeks to be a leader by  advanc ing the scientific understanding of the 
ever-changing coupled Earth and human systems through interdisciplinary 
research  and teaching . CEOE seeks to  ensur e that our science serves society 
by informing policy and engaging communities at the local, national and the 
global levels.  
 
 
 
Mission  
 
                             Through leading -edge interdisciplinary research and education , CEOE 
explores and addresses complex issues of planetary -scale sciences of the 
Earth’s systems, support s resiliency for long -term sustainability, and 
prepares future generation s of leaders, a ll in partners hip with academia, 
government, businesses and communities.  
  
  
  
 
4 of 18 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goals  
 
Within the context of a changing higher education landscape,  the College is 
examining how it can best build upon its legacy of excellence in fundamental and 
applied research, and exemplary education, while continuing to explore new 
thematic, interdisciplinary areas t hat engage students, scientists, stakeholders, and 
decision -makers.  To do so, o ver the next 10 years, the college will focus on the  
following goals : 
 
Goal 1  |  Delivering Exemplary Academic Programs 
that Inspire Students and Produce  
Impactful Leaders  
Goal 2   |  Sustaining and Advancing Innovative  
Research and Discovery  
Goal 3  |  Investing in Capital Infrastructure  
Goal 4   |  Realizing Substantial Advantages from 
Diversity in Education and Research 
Environments  
Goal 5   |  Enlarging Local to Global Engagement  
through Partnerships and Education  
Goal 6   |  Strengthening Development and  
Amplifying the Network of Alumni  
 
The College community is defining a bold future  together with a collective 
commitment that will continue producing cutting -edge scholarship, anticipating 
global trends, and translating scientific findings  that are impactful at the state, 
national, and international levels. Focusin g on these six goals and the College’s 
vision and mission, our faculty, students, and staff will continue to demonstrat e 
excellence in research,  education, and servic e.  
  

 
5 of 18 
 Goal 1  |   
 
The primary objective of the College is to educate students 
to become engaged citizens and future leaders who 
understand disciplinary complexities and can apply 
quantitative and qualitative reasoning for collaborative 
problem -solving. Both the demographics of students and 
the job landscape are rapidly changing. The College will 
develop a multiple -pronged, dynamic strategy that will 
strengthen existing degree progr ams and will offer hybrid 
and online degree programs, certificates, and micro -
credentials. In this way, the College will continue to prepare 
a more diverse and equitable student body and to address 
current scientific and societal issues as well as the dyna mic 
employment opportunities.  By hiring and supporting 
talented faculty, along with undergraduate and graduate 
advisory services, students will be encouraged to pursue 
complex research questions, to forge effective career paths, 
and to engage in lifelong l earning.  
 
Undergraduate Programs  
▪ Grow the undergraduate enrollment . We will increas e and diversify our undergraduate enrollment over 
the next 10 years under the leadership of the Senior Assist ant Dean for Student Services.  Strategies will 
include high school pipeline programs (e.g., summer camps, dual enrollment, engagement with high school 
counselors) and articulation agreements with community colleges, in collaboration with UD’s Division of 
Enrollment Management. Broadening regional engagement strateg ies through partnerships with other on -
campus units and community organizations will expand our reach and streamline departmental visit process 
(e.g., Coast Day Prospective Student Event). The College will broaden these tributaries into underserved 
communi ties and non -traditional students (e.g., less on -campus time, on -line and hybrid degree programs, 
and access to scholarships).  Providing clear communications on return on investment will be linked to these 
outreach programs.  
▪ Expand experiential learning opportunities . We will increase the number of students engaged in faculty -
led research and promote various existing field education experiences that complement degree programs 
and the spirit of discovery, including at -sea opportunities, geology fi eld courses, the Lewes semester -in-
residence program, and senior thesis opportunities.  CEOE’s longstanding Research Experience for 
Undergraduates (REU) program for summer internships  (funded by the NSF Division of Ocean Sciences)  
is a proven strategy for enriching student  education . Affinity Programs, such as Innovation and Community 
Engagement Scholars in other colleges and the newly proposed Climate Scholars, will also be promoted 
for active learning opportunities outside the classroom. We recognize that collaboration with the 
Development  Office  is needed to grow  available fund s for experiential learning o pportunities, including 
year-long research experiences for undergraduates abroad.  
▪ Optimize student services, including academic advising and mentoring .  We will fully launch a   student 
success center, under the Senior Assistant Dean for Student Services , to provide  a one -stop location for 
academic advising and co -curricular programming  that assures compliance with University and College 
policies, provides intensive support for students facing academic difficulty, and certifies degrees. The Undergraduate Programs  
Earth Science Education (B.S.)  
Environmental Science (B.S.)  
Environmental Studies (B.A.)  
Geography (B.A.)  
Geography Education (B.A.)  
Geological Sciences (B.A. or B.S.)  
Marine Science (B.S.)  
GIScience and Environmental Data Analytics (B.S.) 
Meteorology and Climatology (B.S.)  
Graduate Programs  
Climatology (Ph .D.) 
Geography (M .A., M.S., Ph.D.) 
Geological Sciences (M .S., Ph.D.) 
Marine BioSciences (M .S., Ph.D.) 
Marine Policy (M .M.P., M.M.P./J.D., Ph.D.) 
Oceanography (M .S., Ph.D.) 
Physical Ocean Science and Engineering (M .S., Ph.D.) 
Water Science and Policy (M .S., Ph.D.) 
Certificate Programs  
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)  
Minerals, Materials and Society  
Wind Power Science, Engineering and Policy  Delivering Exemplary Academic Programs that  
Inspire Students and Produce Impactful Leaders  
 
6 of 18 
 College will hir e a full-time professional undergraduate advisor who will complement these services, 
encourage greater consistency across the College, and communicate the availability of services. We will 
provide professional academic support services to increase  retentio n and graduation rates and prepare 
students to be globally competitive over the ir life spans. The student success center will continue to monitor 
and evaluate the support ecosystem for incoming first-year students , such as the Living Learning 
Community and Enviromentors. Also , we will increase the number of students applying for external 
scholarships (e.g., NSF graduate research fellowship, Rhodes, Truman, Marshall, Fulbright and Goldwater 
scholarships), by providing workshops and assistance to enhance appli cation success.  
▪ Evaluate, revise , and modernize the degree programs, including 4+1 and online courses . The three 
academic units will develop  4+1 programs to facilitate the entry of interested undergraduate students into 
graduate programs such as the newly launched  B.S./M.S. Program in GIScience and Environmental Data 
Analytics . These developments will offer rich opportunities for undergraduate s tudents to matriculate with 
graduate degrees and diversify their options. We will continuously harmonize the undergraduate curricula  
to reflect the rapidly changing educational landscape , evolving societal challenges,  and job market 
demands. Degree titles that do not match market perceptions will be modified with the involvement of the 
academic units. New online courses will be explored for winter and summer sessions, with appropriate 
resources and technology requirements.  
▪ Expand educational opportunities to non -traditional students.  Changing demographics dictate that 
flexible and innovative academic programs should be developed to enhance access to education targeted to 
non-traditional students or those that cannot participate in traditional,  on-campus classes. This will require 
multiple delivery strategies, including hybrid and online programs, online certificates, and micro -
credentials. This sea change in education will be developed with existing and new partners: in -house 
university resourc es (e.g., online video capabilities of the Faculty Commons); in -state institutions (e.g., 
Delaware  State University and DelTech); and other universities around the world. Wherever possible, these 
educational programs will be coupled with entrepreneurial an d outreach activities that attract motivated 
students.  
▪ Develop students to be life -long learners . The three academic units will train our students to be prepared  
and agile to address rapidly evolving scientific methods and questions and navigate changing job 
landscapes . Both strong disciplinary and quantitative skills and non -technical skills will be emphasized in 
consultations with professional scientific organizations, industry , and government partne rs. Applying 
problem -based  learning (PBL), the faculty will emphasize course work with critical thinking, teamwork, 
project and time management, and quantitative skills (e.g., data science and computational). CEOE will 
also take advantage of the expertise and consultation services of UD’s Center for Teaching and A ssessment 
of Learning (CTAL ) for elevating our programs.   
 
Graduate & Professional Programs  
Our goal is to become a first  choice for graduate students and postdoctoral fellows . CEOE builds on the quality and 
success of the graduate students that are, in turn, inextricably linked to faculty leadership, the scope of their research, 
and state -of-the art facilities and laboratories. We will build on current strengths and diversify st udent pipelines, 
bridge communication between the two campuses in Newark and Lewes, and expand professional development 
experiences. In collaboration with Graduate Programs Coordinators, the following strategic priorities will help in 
achieving these goals :  
 
▪ Increase graduate student enrollment. In collaboration with the Assistant Dean for Graduate Student 
Services, the departments and school will develop a best practices recruitment strategy to be implemented 
 
7 of 18 
 at regional and national meetings. We will wor k with UD’s Development Office to seek more opportunities 
and fellowships for supporting graduate students and also seek to increase the number applying for national 
research fellowships (e.g., NSF, DoD, EPA, and national laboratories). With global outreac h programs 
coordinated with UD ’s Graduate Admissions Office, we will increase the number of international students 
and diversify further the graduate student body.  
▪ Enhance student success and better prepare graduate students for diverse career opportunitie s. With 
the leadership of the Assistant Dean for Graduate Student Services, faculty and staff seek to strengthen 
graduate student education and research experiences and prepare them to be globally competitive for career 
pathways. Recognizing that a majority of our graduate students will find employment outside of traditional  
academic jobs , our graduate degree programs, i n parallel with the undergraduate problem -based  learning 
approaches, will emphasize writing skills, critical thinking, project manag ement, and solving complex 
problems .  In collaboration with the new Graduate College, w e will enrich non -academic pathways with 
robust and holistic professional development  programs,   enhance presentation and communication skills , 
develop individual develo pment plans,  address wellnes issues and engage with the alumni network  for 
mentoring and career opportunities.  The front line of support  will continue to be faculty advisors as well as 
their graduate student peers. The College  will collaborate with UD’s career services to  expand external 
internships and summer job opportunities for the graduate students to work with private sector partners, 
state and federal agencies, and national laboratories. To th ese ends, more holistic ment oring and career 
development approaches will be created.  
▪ Build and enhance the graduate student cohort. Given the two campus infrastructures with separate 
faculty and classroom locations, we recognize  that there are challenges in building a graduate commun ity 
with synergies between degree programs and research endeavors. By nurturing an inclusive community 
with frequent social and professional dialogues (e.g., lecture series symposia, science cafes), the academic 
units will address the need for greater cros s-unit interactions. Greater involvement of graduate students in 
College governance (e.g., in -house sustainability policies) plays a  vital role in fostering a vibrant 
community for learning and discovery. These activities also support the overarching theme  of this strategic 
plan to encourage cross -disciplinary and cross -college dialogues that help to build a nationally  recognized 
program, including the climate change science  and policy  hub (see page 9) .  
▪ Establish professional master ’s degrees  and certificate programs. The three  academic units will 
continue to develop programs with greater emphasis on interdisciplinary science -policy themes, such as the 
Water Science and Policy degree and a new collaborative graduate program in microbiology  (with the 
Graduate College , the College of Arts and Sciences , and the College of Agriculture  and Natural Resources ). 
Such initiatives , along with professional master ’s 4+1 degrees, will grow  and diversify  the graduate student 
population and enhance student su ccess in addressing current scientific challenges and the evolving job 
market. CEOE will also invest in the development and marketing of professional certificate programs (e.g., 
Graduate Certificate s in Minerals, Materials and Society, and GIScience) that provide opportunities for 
non-traditional students and respond to growing market demands in particular fields (e.g., Graduate 
Certificate s in Robotics and in Wind Power Science, Engineering and Polic y). We w ill translate classroom 
courses and certificates to online programs with appropriate resources and training for the faculty  in 
collaboration with  UD’s Division of  Professional and Continuing Studies (PCS) .  
 
  
 
8 of 18 
 Goal 2  |   
Excellence in research and discovery is central to the identity of faculty and students in CEOE and establishes the 
drivers for engaging with local and global partners to find solutions to a number of society’s most challenging 
problems. Core strengths emanate from all three academic units —the School of Marine Science and Policy, the 
Department of Geography and Spatial Sciences, and the Department of Earth Sciences —which are the foundations 
of the Colle ge’s success. CEOE addresses many of society’s challenges that require a deep understanding of the 
Earth as a system (biosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, cryosphere, and geosphere) and the responses to physical 
and human stressors. There is more to be done  to understand deep earth processes and its linkage to surficial 
processes. Yet, we also recognize the need to explore more interdisciplinary and holistic approaches in order to 
advance discovery and innovation and address the increasingly complex environm ental issues that affect society.  
 
The Earth has entered a period of climatological change that departs from previous episodes of natural variation, 
resulting in major impact on the biogeochemical cycles of the planet over relatively short time scales. Fac ed with 
rising temperatures, retreating glaciers, sea level rise, highly damaging coastal storms, severe droughts, wildfires 
and more frequent flooding, there is an urgency to focus strategically on the daunting impacts of climate change . It 
has become cle ar that human activities have caused changes on a planetary scale, and these changes are increasingly 
tipping the world toward highly disruptive global environmental degradation while at the same time placing urgent 
demands on the planet’s critical resourc es such as clean energy, water, and food. Confronting these challenges will 
require a convergence of ideas, approaches, and technologies from widely diverse fields of knowledge to stimulate 
innovation and discovery. The college, with its deep capabilities in climate science, environmental geochemistry, 
marine and terrestrial ecosystems and growing expertise in natural hazards and coupled human -environmental 
system analysis, has unique opportunities to catalyze and shape more collaborations across the Colleg e and the 
University. In this way, emerging complexities and existing knowledge gaps will be addressed. We fully expect 
that developing resources towards intr a- and cross -college collaborations that move toward convergence research 
and approaches will also help to strengthen state and local community capabilities for mitigating and adapting to 
these growing global threats. Towards these ends, in addition to invest ing in disciplinary areas, we have identified 
a set of strategic priorities that will be a focus of our institutional efforts of the College over the next 10 years.  
 
▪ Establish a world -class  CLIMATE  CHANGE  
SCIENCE  & POLICY  HUB. Focusing on this complex 
thematic area will foster greater cross -department and 
cross -college collaborations and elevate the profile of 
climate change research at UD. The hub will build a  
broad knowledge base grounded in rigorous analysis of 
the evidence t hat addresses the urgency of climate change 
and potential impacts on local and global ecosystems. 
Based on an assessment of the academic unit strengths and 
the majority of faculty research foci, five topics related to 
climate science are involved.  
In early  2020, the hub will be launched by selecting 
leadership and interested faculty and research scientists 
with shared interests. The leadership (in collaboration 
with the three academic unit leads) will assess which of 
these thematic areas are most promising and where 
College faculty are best positioned to contribute. With 
appropriate incentives and seed money, the hub will 
identify near -term multi -institutional proposals in Sustaining and Advancing Innovative Research and Discovery  
CLIMATE CHANGE  
SCIENCE & POLICY  
HUB  
 
CLIMATE DYNAMICS  
oceans, atmosphere observations and modelling 
of past and future climate and its impact  
 
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS  
OF CLIMATE CHANGE  
urbanization, resilience, adaptation,  
human migration, policy  
 
CLIMATE IMPACTS ON HEALTH  
focus on water and food security  
 
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY  
TRANSITIONS  
 
HAZARDS  
focused on climate related hazards  
 
 
9 of 18 
 collaboration with the UD Research Office and in cooperation with other colleges and u niversities. This 
will help the College to provide leadership in new areas, develop new degree programs, and catalyze new 
strategic hires.  
▪ Develop cross -college strategic faculty mentoring and hiring plans.  Coordinating faculty hiring plans 
across the Col lege and university will leverage existing core strengths currently dispersed through the 
three academic units, and promote greater inter -connectedness between departments, work on emerging 
and frontier areas, and innovative academic programs. Each academic unit will develop and implement a 
comprehensive peer -mentoring program for faculty at all ranks. Academic units will also work with early -
career faculty to formulate career development plans and enhance their competitiveness for prestigious 
awards (e.g., NSF CAREER; Sloan Research Fellowships), while at the same time coaching outstanding 
mid-career faculty and providing leadership opportunities for the next generation of faculty leaders.  
▪ Establish college research theme areas.  Thematic resear ch areas will be established  to leverage cluster 
hires, strengthen cross -college collaborations, enhance interdisciplinary research, and expand funding 
potential . These collaborative activities will help to elevate the national stature of our programs. Theme 
leaders will selected by the Dean with input from the department chairs and director.  
▪ Support and facilitate convergence research initiatives that build upon disciplinary strengths and 
human -environment  coupled thinking. The College’s three academic units will facilitate convergence 
research initiatives by generating opportunities for promising faculty and post -doc fellows. Existing 
research centers will be evaluated, and new research hubs of excellence will be launched that generate new 
ideas, facilitate intellectual collaborations, and offer multi -institutional proposal opportunities.  Integrating 
physical, life, and social sciences will address Earth’s grand challenges with all their complexities and 
uncertainties. With sufficiently long tim escales, human and environment coupling is often central for 
defining sustainable and cost -effective strategies for anticipating and creating better governance and 
decision making . CEOE is already actively exploring the paradigm of coupled human -natural sy stems, and 
future efforts will build this capability with more cross -disciplinary dialogues, strategic hires, and new 
curriculum (e.g., Climate and Society Concentration in the Environmental Sciences degree).  
▪ Enhanc e national and global recognition of fac ulty research excellence. The College’s academic units 
will promote the contributions of faculty, enhance communication of research and discoveries, and boost 
the global awareness of research programs through web re -design and robust social media presence (e.g., 
through UDaily, external newsfeeds). Dissemination of research results across multiple scientific platforms 
is already a goal for the faculty and linked to promotion and tenure (P&T), but additional incentives may 
be needed. The departments and scho ol leadership will encourage faculty at all career stages to seek out 
leadership opportunities in various scientific and international organizations. The College awards 
committee will actively canvass and identify meritorious faculty to ensure that highly qualified candidates 
are nominated for major UD, national, and international awards. Another essential objective of 
disseminating scientific results will be to enhance communication and engagement with local and global 
communities. These initiatives will c ontribute to the University’s role as an economic driver for the state 
and the region .  
▪ Enhanc e innovation and entrepreneurship. CEOE and the University have a legacy of innovation and 
entrepreneurship that involves a variety of partners, including public -private partnerships and start -ups 
(e.g., NI IMBL, First State Marine Wind,  Nuvve’s  Vehicle -to-Grid technology, epigenetic biomarkers with 
GenPro). Looking ahead, it is clear that there is more potential for our faculty and students to provide 
solutions for a more sustainable future. Strengthening the faculty’s relationship with existing programs, 
such as the eco -entrepreneurial certificate associated with Horn Entrepreneurship and the Office of 
Economic Innovation and Partnership (OEIP) , will accelerate the transfer of ideas into the  marketplace. 
The UD Makerspaces, engaging undergraduates in active learning, offer additional opportunities that will 
be enhanced and proactively marketed. University resources will be targeted to support mo tivated faculty 
and ensure that P&T documents reflect entrepreneurial contributions to scholarship .   
 
10 of 18 
 Goal 3  |   
A first -class capital infrastructure is essential for attract ing and retain ing intellectual leadership and for enabl ing the 
College to address research and academic  priorities more effectively . A high priority of this strategy involve s a 
capital infrastructure fundraising campaign orchestrated with the UD Development Office and with  University -
level advice and resources . The following strategic priorities will address a number of these challenges:  
 
▪ Establish a CEOE infrastructure advisory committee. Given the urgent infrastructure needs across both 
campuses, establishing a College space committee will be a top priority . This committee will outline 
policies at the College level  and advise the Dean and unit heads. Establishing a transparent process for 
office and lab oratory  space allo cation priorities  to address specific internal challenges and personnel needs  
will be undertaken at the unit level. The committee will liaise with the UD Master Plan and Facilities , Real 
Estate  and Auxiliary Services on the main campus to help evaluate the quality of the spaces, prioritize 
renovations  (including deferred maintenance ), and enhance operational efficiency through space -saving 
measures. Strategies to maintain and enhance the prominence of existing laboratories will be identified 
(e.g., Robotics Discovery Laborator ies, Environmental Isotope Science Laboratory). Wherever possible, 
suggested renovations and new construction will incorporate sustainable design elements and will showcase 
leadership in climate resiliency to inspire student s, researchers, and the community. Accordingly,  coastal 
vulnerabilities at the Lewes campus will be examined , and near -term plans developed.       
▪ Develop multi -purpose laboratory and teaching spaces.  The immediate  challenges are related to new 
laboratory  space in Newark for additional hires and teaching lab oratory  spaces on both campuses. To 
address some of these needs with limited resources , we will move  towards a model of shared, thematic 
research spaces. This will facilitate collaborations for competitive research programs while alleviat ing some 
of the space problems. Also , there is a need to acquire new spaces and to modernize others . We will build  
a seawater laboratory on the Lewes campus  to elevate our national visibility . For the Newark campus, we 
will focus on the development of a new footprint centered around a geochemistry laboratory and renovate 
existing laboratory space. In addition, we will continue to modernize classrooms with enh anced 
connectivity -enabling technology and leverage access to research labs. We will increase teaching space 
with the development of a teaching annex on the Lewes campus  that will also provide meaningful hand -on 
experience and improved public demonstration s.  
▪ Enhance greater connectedness between the Newark and Lewes campuses. Faculty offices, 
laboratories, and classrooms are now spread across several buildings in Newark and a separate campus 90 
miles away in Lewes. The distribution and quality of the physi cal spaces create some difficult challenges 
and are impediments to the future growth of the College. Central services are only located in Newark, 
limiting some student support systems. Often faculty have long commuting times and larger carbon 
footprints to  teach and facilitate collaborations. The Lewes coastal location, on the other hand, provides  
students and faculty with ship time , field laboratories, and opportunities for  local engagement with 
policymakers and citizen scientists . We will collaborate with the office of the Executive Vice President to 
expand the university’s footprint in Lewes to support community learning and engagement , such as with 
the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute , while expanding UD’s programmatic areas on t he Newark  campus. 
The College will partner with the Office of the Vice President for Information Technology to enhance the 
instructional technology (IT) infrastructures in the classroom and laboratory spaces that are providing 
improv ed connectivity between  campuses . 
▪ Sustain the legacy of ship -based research, education, and experiential learning.  Ship- and small vessel -
based research are an important legacy of CEOE’s history of research and discovery and continue s to be a 
showcase for experiential learning opportunities in marine science. In order  to sustain ship operations , the 
College will leverage  the R/V Hugh R. S harp  as a recruiting tool asset for seagoing faculty and develop Investing in Capital Infrastructure  
 
11 of 18 
 robust marketing and development plans to diversify the funding portfolio of the University’s R/V Sharp  
and R/V Joanne Daiber . Sustaining  ship operations that support our research portfolios and academic 
programs is central to the College’s  strategic priorities . 
▪ Expand living and learning community in Lewes. The infrastructure advisory committee will work 
collaboratively with UD’s Real Estate and Development Department and long -range planning to enhance 
the University’s footprint on the Lewes campus . Through public -private partnerships , we seek to provide 
new living facilities for students in Lewes. This will also enhance the recruitment of top graduate students 
and allow an expansion of our semester -in-residence to include students from other colleges.  
  
 
12 of 18 
 Goal 4  |   
Diverse campus experiences improve the educational growth of all students on campus  by promot ing inclusion  and 
social equity and by prepar ing students for the diverse world they must navigate upon graduation. D iversity is a 
core value and guiding principle for the university and CEOE’s education and research mission. Diversity and 
inclusion mean both the recognition and appreciation of differen t backgrounds, values, and ideas , as well as a 
commitment to ensure that all people are treated equally. Increasing the diversity  of faculty, staff, and students in 
ethnic ity, cultur e, race, religion , and gender  requires a targeted and sustained program ac ross the College . As a 
priority, the College will attract underrepresented minority student s. The College  also recognizes that there is 
currently a lack of in-house expertise and resources to move us forward. The College will work with UD ’s Office 
of Equity and Inclusion to access their resources and to seek advice on proven strategies that increas e the diversity 
of the faculty and other role models that will lead to a greater diversity of the students. To this end, we will focus 
on the foll owing strategic priorities:  
 
▪ Increase faculty and staff diversity. We will increase the diversity of the faculty and staff through targeted 
recruiting and focused retention strategies.  All CEOE search committees will participate in implicit bias 
training at all levels and will partner with the NSF -funded UD ADVANCE Institute for advice on faculty 
searches  and best practices to increase the diversity of  candidates . In order to increase the represented 
minority applicant pool, search committees will actively recruit faculty by interacting with minority -serving 
institutions and organizations. The Dean’s Office  will assess the effectiveness of CEOE ’s Diversity 
Committee  with the heads of the three academic units to ensure diverse memberships in all department -
level committees, including implicit bias training for graduate student committees. The Dean’s Office will 
establish an initiative for diversity values in research projects and provide leadership roles to faculty.  
▪ Attract and recruit underrepresented students . We will recruit and retain diverse students, in 
collaboration with the UD Admissions Office, by expanding the external funding sources and leveraging 
alumni donations. Scholarships and other funding sources will be needed to attract and recruit diverse 
represented minority students and post -doc candidates. CEOE will partner with Historic ally Black Colleges 
and Universities  (HBCUs ) as part of a revitalized pipeline program. By attending the SACNAS ( Society 
for Advanc ement of  Chicanos /Hispanics and Native Ame ricans in Science) conference, we will recruit 
M.S. and Ph.D. students from the high ‐achieving and diverse attendee s. These strategic priorities will be 
coordinated with the UD Development office to address any fundraising gaps (e.g., post -doc minority 
fellowship program, lower costs for the residential summer  camp , registration fees to attend the annual 
Women in STEM conference). The commitment to these strategic priorities will be realized in collaboration 
with the Office of Equity and Inclusion and exter nal diversity experts as resour ces are available . 
• Cultivate a welcoming and inclusive community . Diversity policies will be developed with respect and 
appreciation of human differences. College policies, in alignment with Title IX compliance, will be 
completed and disseminated throughout the governance structure. All CEOE employees (staff and faculty)  
will be expected to stay knowledgeable  on Title IX compliance. A College Code -of-Conduct and annual 
bystander intervention training will provide common -sense guidelines and a framework by which to 
monitor and report any inappropriate incidences. These  guidelines  will extend beyond the classrooms and 
laboratories to other informal professional development gatherings, such as social engagements and social 
media.  
  Realizing Substantial Advantages from Diversity and  
Equity in Education and Research Environments  
 
13 of 18 
 Goal 5 |  
 
The College seeks to ensure that research findings and student experiences have positive and significant effect s, 
particularly on local communities. Professors and researchers are well poised for developing sound science related 
to society’s  challenges . The College has outstanding opportunities to work closely with administrative units within 
the College as well as other affiliated groups that can assist with promoting and translating reliable science for state 
and local governments and communities to addre ss critical needs and to fashion creative solutions and adaptations 
(see box ). The strategy is two -pronged: first, deepening engagement with faculty and researchers in meeting the 
evolving demands of regional stakeholders related to coupled human -environmental  systems , such as  developing 
hazard mitigation plans and supporting natural resource sustainability in the Delaware watershed and beyond ; and 
second, linking the outreach strategies closely  to the educational mission. We will focus on th e following strategic 
priorities:     
▪ Facilitate deeper connections to 
enhance outreach . This focus on  critical 
societal issues grows out of CEOE’s 
research and education missions that are 
closely linked to state, federal, and 
international age ncies and stakeholder 
groups around the world. Department 
chairs, in conjunction with the  Dean’s 
Office and CEOE faculty , will identify 
emerging research topics that address 
challenges associated with the new 
climate change science and policy hub as 
well a s other scientific thematic 
interplays. CEOE’s  faculty  will continue 
to forge stronger links with internal groups 
(see box ) and external partnerships around 
the globe.  
 
▪ Foster collaborations and catalyze innovations across the University . CEOE will cultivat e stronger 
relationships within the College as well as  with faculty across the university. Relationships  with both 
internal and external institutions and across industrial, academic , and federal partnerships will facilitate 
the fulfillment of our mission. CEOE faculty are part of emerging interdisciplinary research areas that 
are based upon core strengths in fundamental sciences. Some examples of these strategic opportunities 
include the National Institute for  Innovation in Manufacturing Biopharmaceuticals ( NIIMBL ), 
Delaware Environmental Institute  (DENIN ), Established Program to Stimulate Competitive 
Research  (EPSCoR ), Disaster Research Center ( DRC) , and the Data Science Institute  (DSI). 
  
▪ Enhance engaged scholarship by e ncourag ing faculty and students to address local community 
concerns.  By facilitating broader dialogues with internal partners (mentioned above)  and faculty, 
shared research questions addressing societal  challenges and potential local impacts will continue to be 
identified. Meaningful engagements and communication about environmental challenges affecting 
communities and policymakers are current priorities for many faculty (e.g., risks of more frequent 
flooding, coastal and beach erosion, ocean acidification, sustainab le communities, and horseshoe crab The College is fortunate to have valuable in -house institutions 
that already engage with Delaware’s communities and focus 
on a host of critical issues, including those related to coastal 
resiliency and hazard management, water supply and 
management, and state climatology services. These platforms 
include D elaware Sea Grant (DESG) , Delaware Geological 
Survey (DGS) , and the Center for Environmental Monitoring 
and Analysis ( CEMA ). We will engage these entities to 
leverage existing resources and expertise for impactful 
community interactions on various topics (e.g., reducing 
plastic debris in the ocean, training teachers in climate 
science, organizing knowledge exchanges on offshore wind, 
and easier trac king of endangered species for the fishing 
community). The college also has administrative relationships 
with Scientific Committee on Ocean Research (SCOR), Mid -
Atlantic Regional Association Coastal Ocean Observing 
System (MARACOOS), and Osher Lifelong Lea rning Institute 
(OLLI) that will be strengthened.  Enlarging Local to Global Engagement  
through Partnerships and Education  
 
14 of 18 
 protections) . The Dean’s office will identify specific incentives (such as merit awards and Faculty 
Excellence in Scholarly Community Engagement Awards) recognizing successful leadership and 
partnerships. Students will also benefit by participating in these outreach stra tegies and will be 
encouraged to take a more active role with their faculty advisors through internship opportunities with 
internal engagement units (e.g., DESG, DGS) and with the public, non -profit and business sectors. The 
College will broaden engagement  with local communities to serve as an active partner and institutional 
resource in building capabilities in adaptation and resilience and in sharing complex scientific 
information. Engagement and communication will also be a centerpiece of the climate cha nge science 
and policy hub.  
 
▪ Enhance science literacy within the local communities across Delaware . Several popular informal 
educational programs  are provided in cities and towns across Delaware , such as Coast Day, the SMSP 
Ocean Currents Lecture Series at the Lewes Campus, and OLLI . Although these types of initiatives 
reach a broad spectrum of stakeholder communities, a deeper reach into underserved communities is 
nonetheless needed. A sustain ed marketing program that leverages these partnerships to build greater 
support for science literacy will be a priority for CEOE.  
 
▪ Expand engagement around the world . The College seeks to have a significant  influence on 
international scientific institutions and research projects around the world. With the exchange of 
knowledge across the three academic units and the international task force, CEOE will explore 
collaborations with other universities (e.g., MOUs for joint degree programs and interna tional student 
exchanges) and private industry (e.g., technology R&D). A greater faculty reach into global institutions 
and communities will also expand our potential interactions with new international students. Key 
strategic priority areas for the Colleg e, based upon existing core competencies include the following:  
 
• Climate Change Science and Policy Hub.  Launching this Hub will be one of the most important 
initiative s of the College , focus ing on so me of the most perplexing scientific challeng es of th e 
coming  decade s. Drawing upon  significant strength s across the College that already span the 
globe , the Hub will build upon existing  expertise that ranges from meteorological and climate 
services, ecosystem vulnerability, and new governance structures relat ed to geohealth and 
sustainable energy transitions . The Geography and Spatial Science s Department and SMSP 
both have extensive research program s in the Arctic and Antarctica . The Hub will work to 
enable these international collaborations and to significantly advance our scientific capabilities 
further.  
 
• New collaborative research partnership with developing nations . Many of the fundamental and 
applied scientific focus areas of the College may lead to possible research interfaces and to a 
foundation for effective cooperation with selected developing regions. Interested faculty will 
explore new footprints with various platforms (e.g., Green Climate Fund, UD’s existing MOU 
with the Glo bal Green Growth Institute) , considering a wide variety of research topics (e.g., 
the geopolitics of food systems) and regions (e.g., Central America and Sub -Saharan Africa).  
 
• Small Island Developing State s (SIDS) . The College will build  upon  the existing relationship 
with the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network  and the work of the 
Mangone Center to develop internationally recognized expertise for research and practice 
around the challenges of SID S.  
 
15 of 18 
 Goal 6 |  
 
The College ’s development strategies and alumni relationships are essential pillars for its continued success and the 
ability to raise external resources for meeting our goals. Cultivating, mentoring, and connecting with our students, 
(e.g., the graduate student cohort programs) lays the groundwork for enhancing community and philanthropic ties.  
Communicating our story effectively and broadening engagement strategies will expand the College’s reach across 
a variety of audiences (including alumni and volunteers, friends and community, corporate partners , and private 
foundations ). The following priorities will help to fulfill overarching development goals and alumni relations in 
collaboration with the UD development office:  
 
▪ Enhance engagement with alumni and friends . Many faculty actively participate in e vents, including 
Delaware to the World, SMSP’s Ocean Current s lecture series, Coast Day, UD Day in DC , and Osher 
Lifelong Learning Institute . Broader and sustained reach into national and international networks will 
require more  coordination and commitment that effectively leverage faculty and student relationships. The 
College will work closely with the UD development  office  to produce a roadmap  to enhance engagement  
and create initiatives  such as mentorship program s with new graduates and other alumni . 
 
▪ Foster existing relationships across the region . Beyond alumni and friends , there are untapped 
opportunities to engage more broadly with regional, Mid -Atlantic , and national communities. The College 
wants to serve its communities as an active partner and institutional resource in building capabilities in 
adaptation and resilience  and by sharing complex scientific information that affects their communities, such 
as more extreme storms and high -tide flooding. Faculty and staff will leverage existing relationships across 
the region with tactical support from the development office. A nother priority for success is to mobilize a 
regional community council from professional and intellectual networks that translate to a wider net of 
CEOE philanthropy .   
 
▪ Increase resources for faculty, undergraduate , and graduate student support . Recruiti ng diverse 
students from different cultures and less privileged communities will require greater invest ments  in their 
talent s and ambitions  by diversifying faculty and marshaling resources for scholarships . Philanthropic 
support through  Delaware First  will help to establish a new ly endowed scholarship or support an existing 
one; this will help UD to fulfill its mission of providing a world -class education for its students. We will 
also explore how to leverage existing relationships related to sponsored research that may lead to enlarged 
scholarship funding . CEOE  will work with the UD development office to expand faculty funding portfolios 
and to include corporate and private foundation funding sources.  
 
  Strengthening Development and  
Amplifying the Network of Alumni  
 
16 of 18 
 Ongoing Assessment of Progress  
 
• The Dean’s Office, in collaboration with the three academic unit heads, will create implementation 
roadmaps for this strategic plan that build s upon strategic hiring plans (and Self -Assessment Programs) , 
including budget and funding commitments . The Dean’s office will have an ongoing assessment process 
that utilizes the three academic unit heads and the Leadership  Team (see Appendix 2 for members hip) in 
the review of this Strategic Plan and subsequent roadmaps. The annual leadership retreat will assess the 
key metrics supporting this strategic plan. These metrics will include but are not limited to progress in 
fundamental and interdisciplinary res earch areas ; enhanced student success, inclusiveness, and 
recruitment on both the undergraduate and graduate levels ; and more effective partnerships for 
community and global engagement. Barriers to and opportunities for realizing the strategic plan will be 
discussed and solutions identified with the College leadership  and the Human Resources Manager . 
Students, particula rly graduate students, will be consulted wherever appropriate to formulate solutions 
and strategies for their success .  
 
• An early priority for the College will be progress on development of a climate change science  and policy  
hub. The Dean’s Office will or chestrate initial planning steps  with the  three academic unit leads , including 
identifying  leadership and defining the availability of seed funding. Interested faculty wi th shared thematic 
areas that best intersect with current and future research  will be recruited . In collaboration with UD’s 
Research Office , potential multi -institutional proposals where CEOE has considerable success (e.g., NSF) 
will be targeted to map priority funding for existing research strengths, such as coupled natural and human 
systems , human dimensions of the A rctic System, U N Sustainable Goals and Innovations at the Nexus of 
food and water  systems  (GeoHealth  grand challenge ). Also,  other colleges (and external univ ersities) with 
compl ementary climate change science expertise will be identified and engaged in partnering . 
 
▪ Progress on the continuous improvement process and highlights of the annual assessments will be presented 
to CEOE faculty, staff , and students annually.  
  
 
17 of 18 
 APPENDICES  
 
Appendix 1. The Planning Process  
The overarching objective of the strategic planning process was to define aspirations that will guide a CEOE vision 
for the next 10 years, including  interdisciplinary and impactful res earch areas, student success, and community 
engagement.  
 
The CEOE strategic planning process began in October 2018 with a formation of a committee appointed by Dean 
Atekwana and co -chaired by Professor Fabrice Veron, deputy dean, and Bonnie Ram, interim director of strategic 
initiatives and partnerships of CEOE (see Appendix 1 for members). A three -phased process was developed for this 
planning process beginning in Fall 2018.  
 
• Phase I.  The objectives of the first phase (October 2018 -February 2019) were to assess core strengths, refresh 
the vision and mission statements, identify opportunities to sharpen undergraduate and graduate enrollment 
strategies, consider University -level presiden tial priorities, and explore scientific grand challenges that would 
help to weave common threads across the three units. While the departments and the school have recognized 
core strengths and a robust legacy of fundamental science and applied problem -solving and disciplinary 
educational programs, the committee recognized that CEOE also has  considerable strengths and history related 
to climate change research and training.  
 
• Phase II  (March 2019 - August 2019) The faculty committee, along with insights gaine d from separate faculty 
interviews, identified a set of grand challenges that were based upon strategic hire plans, research grants, and 
publications. There was a recognition that most of these strengths related to climate science and the climate 
change sc ience and policy hub idea  was born.  Working groups were formed around a set of four grand 
challenges  and potential goals were discussed related to student success, diversity and inclusiveness, and 
community engagement. In light of our substantial basic s cience research interests, other thematic areas were 
identified for further considerations such as biogeochemistry, GIS, and big data. A College -wide survey was 
also conducted  and comments were reviewed and incorporated into a revised draft . Throughout the  planning 
process, the co -chair Ram attended faculty meetings in each of the three academic units and other committee 
meetings to keep CEOE leadership and faculty informed  and engaged . Also interviews were conducted across 
and external to CEOE, including a lumni, undergraduate , and graduate students groups, and the Dean’s Advisory 
Council (DAC). A nother revised  draft plan was produced and circulated to the committee for review and 
comment in May 2019. During the summer, committee comments were reviewed and the several versions of 
the plan were  revised again.  
 
• Phase III  (September 2019 - December 2019). The object ives of this phase involved a continuation of the 
review and comment process of the draft plan (V9) by the broader College, including staff, faculty, students, 
and researchers. This phase also targeted engagement with internal and external partners such as  DESG, DGS, 
CEMA , and the Dean’s Advisory Council (DAC) f or review and comment. In the late fall, a revised draft plan 
(V9) was circulated to the broader College with a brief survey to obtain comments. A draft was also distribu ted 
to select  university reviewers , academic unit leads, and the DAC . These comments were then  reviewed and 
incorporated into the final document  (V10) .  
 
 
18 of 18 
 Appendix 2. Members of the CEOE Strategic Planning 
Committee  
 
Dr. Estella Atekwana, CEOE Dean  
Dr. Fabrice Veron , CEOE Deputy Dean, Committee Co -Chair  
Bonnie Ram, Interim Director, Strategic Partnerships, Committee Co -Chair  
 
Dr. Saleem Ali  
Dr. Eliot Atekwana  
Dr. Jennifer Biddle  
Dr. Jeremy Firestone  
Mark Jolly -Van Bodegraven , Director EPE  
Dr. John Madsen , Acting Ch air, Department of Earth Sciences  
Dr. Sue McNeil , Chair, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering  
Dr. Keeley Powell , Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Services  
Dr. Neil Sturchio  
Jon Swallow , Director, Marine Operations  
Ex-Officio – Dr. Mark Moline, Director , SMSP and Dr. Del Levia, Chair, Geography and Spatial Science  
 
Dean’s Advisory Council  
Dr. Lee Anderson , Professor Emeritus  
Karen Carlson  
Dr. Luis Cifuentes  
Jeffrey Jacobs  
Dr. Brandon Jones  
Ralph Leon, Co -chair  
Dr. Ann Masse  
Stephen Rahaim  
Dr. Gary Schmelz  
John Talley, Co -chair  
Dr. Evan Ward  
Ming Xu  
 
Leadership Team  
Dr. Estella Atekwana, CEOE Dean  
Dr. Fabrice Veron, CEOE Deputy Dean, Committee Co -Chair  
 
Mark Dobbins, CEOE Business Officer  
T.J. Cournoyer, Senior Director of Development  
Dr. Kathy Coy ne, Director , DESG  
Paul Dumigan , Director , College Computing Operations  
Mark Jolly -Van Bodegraven , Director , EPE 
Kelli Kerbawy, Assistant Dean, Graduate Services  
Dr. Del Levia, Chair, Geography and Spatial Science  
Dr. John Madsen, Acting Chair, Department of Earth Sciences  
Dr. Mark Moline, Director , SMSP  
Dr. Keeley Powell, Senior Assistant Dean, Student Services  
Bonnie Ram, Interim Director, Strategic Partnerships, Committee Co -Chair  
Dr. David Wunsch, Director, D elaware Geological Survey 
