IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIISUNY BUFFALO STATE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026
2   |   STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026From the President   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
From the College Council  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Pillar #1:  
Commitment to Access, Social Justice,  
and Belonging   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Pillar #2:  
The Land we Occupy as an Urban-Engaged  
Anchor Campus   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 
Pillar #3:  
A Shared Vision for Student Success   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Pillar #4:  
Professional Success for Faculty and Staff   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Pillar #5:  
Sustainability for a Better Future   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Acknowledgements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10TABLE of CONTENTS

STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026    |   3
As we began the journey to develop our 2022–2026 Strategic Plan, 
we approached and then concluded a milestone period for Buffalo 
State: our sesquicentennial. The celebration marking the 150th anniversary 
of our establishment as an educational institution was filled with a great 
deal of joy, reflection, remembrance, and hope for our continued bright 
future. We now move forth with this bold Strategic Plan to guide us 
during the next four years.
Buffalo State embraces its transformational educational experience, 
and with this plan, we will build on our legacy as a campus that prepares 
leaders; strives for justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion; and transforms 
the lives of its students while lifting our communities. Our campus sits 
within the city of Buffalo, and we are intricately connected with the  
education and successes of our citizens throughout the region, the state, 
and beyond. We proudly connect with our urban-engaged mission, which 
is manifested in the varied and engaged aspects of our work.
The vibrancy and diversity of our world characterizes our campus—both 
now and in the future. Diverse voices bring nuance and vitality to our 
classes, our campus discussions, and the issues we face as a society. 
When thoughtful individuals of all ages, socioeconomic levels, racial and 
ethnic groups, gender definitions, and degrees of ability come together, 
it provides a rich canopy in which to explore our academic pursuits,  
research exploration, and civic engagement. We know that true equity 
and total inclusion are the only ways to fully bring the best to our world 
and do the best for our constituents.
The ever-changing environment we inhabit requires our administrators, 
faculty, and staff members to engage in new thoughts and behaviors and 
necessitates continued professional development. With creativity and 
energy, we will continue to address the changes around us and demonstrate 
the adaptation needed to thrive as we move forward.
We pledge to cultivate a mission-driven sustainable future for our 
campus, one that cherishes our many assets, including our natural and 
human resources. Just as the solid foundation of our past has allowed for 
the success and elevation of over 120,000 alumni, with this Strategic 
Plan, we will lay down the elements for our future success.
A Buffalo State degree has catapulted thousands of students and their 
families to places of leadership, promise, financial stability, and dedi -
cation to their communities. The current Strategic Plan recognizes the 
complex environment of today and sets forth a direction for Buffalo 
State that will carry our legacy forward as we continue to advance our 
mission well into the future.
Katherine S. Conway-Turner, Ph.D.  
President, SUNY Buffalo StateFROM the PRESIDENT

4   |   STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026
The Buffalo State College Council stands committed to the 
mission and direction of SUNY Buffalo State as documented in 
the 2022–2026 Strategic Plan. Buffalo State holds a prominent 
place within the higher education ecosystem, in Western New York, 
and across SUNY. As the only urban-engaged campus in the State 
University of New York system, Buffalo State not only provides an 
outstanding and affordable education on the bachelor’s and master’s 
levels but is also intricately connected to the city of Buffalo. You will 
find Buffalo State engaged in and supportive of every aspect within 
the city. Led by outstanding faculty members, students connect their 
major and minor studies to the issues and concerns of the Queen 
City. This allows students to provide value to important questions 
while also forging direct ties to the courses and curricula they are 
studying, preparing them for future leadership roles.
The pillars described in the Strategic Plan also recognize the current 
and growing diversity of our student body and the need to keep equity 
and inclusion always at the center of the educational experience. A 
part of this work will include further diversifying the faculty and staff 
and providing professional development to address the current and 
future needs of our students and all constituents.
The current strategic plan frames a clear sense of who we are and how 
we can deepen our commitment to the education of diverse students 
in ways that engage them inside and outside the classroom. The College 
Council looks forward to the continued success of Buffalo State as 
guided by the new Strategic Plan. The world is changing every day, 
and we applaud the many ways that Buffalo State continues to evolve 
to meet the current challenges and to collaboratively thrive in ways 
that advance the educational goals of the campus.
Linda Dobmeier, ’71  
Chair, Buffalo State College CouncilFROM the  
COLLEGE COUNCIL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026    |   5Our students will be provided with opportunities for a  
quality higher education experience at the baccalaureate 
and master’s degree level and receive necessary support to  
navigate through their unique academic and personal experiences. 
Providing access to quality education is who we are as a campus 
and is central to our mission, vision, and values. 
Our home is Buffalo, and Buffalo State acknowledges that  
the college is situated within the traditional territory of the 
Haudenosaunee Confederacy, including the Seneca, Tuscarora, 
Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, and Mohawk nations, and of their 
Indigenous relations and neighbors, the Erie and the Wenro.  
We hope to demonstrate respect for the treaties that were made 
on these territories, and we pledge to work toward partnership with 
a spirit of collaboration with our current Indigenous neighbors,  
the Seneca and Tuscaroras. 
GOAL 1: Strengthen and diversify the pipeline of students 
GOAL 2:  Continue to grow and develop a welcoming and  
 equity-minded culture for all students 
GOAL 3: Promote instructional diversity and asset-based  
 teaching models
GOAL 4:  Address ever changing social issues and promote  
 social justice and equity for allPILLAR #1:  
Commitment to Access, Equity, Social Justice,  
and Belonging

6   |   STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026As the only urban comprehensive college within SUNY,  
we take pride in our community and our civic-engaged 
campus. We strive to provide curricular and co-curricular learning 
opportunities, develop civic skills, and build reciprocal community 
partnerships that promote equity and address community-  
identified priorities. These experiences will impact our students 
throughout their academic and professional careers. Our community 
efforts strengthen our city, state, and region by promoting our 
cultural richness and history, and help to improve the local and 
regional economy. 
GOAL 1: Expand sustainable experiential, high-impact practice  
 learning opportunities giving students an opportunity  
 to engage directly with our communities 
GOAL 2: Strengthen existing community partnerships and  
 respond to other partnership opportunities 
GOAL 3:  Expand support for community-based research  
 and scholarship
GOAL 4:  Ensure community partnership data and feedback  
 is used in assessment, academic planning, and  
 institutional decision-makingPILLAR #2:  
The Land we Occupy as an Urban-Engaged  
Anchor Campus 

STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026    |   7
Student success at Buffalo State encompasses a variety of 
experiences that contribute to students building a sense  
of belonging. To accomplish this, we will provide an array of 
engagement activities with peers, staff, and faculty that  
support and clearly create a pathway grounded in students’ 
curricular and co-curricular interests. Our holistic approach 
will enhance the total experience we provide to students  
including commuter, transfer, online, and many other student 
stakeholder groups. We commit to continuously improving 
upon our understanding of our students and adapting and  
responding to their changing needs. 
GOAL 1: Create a clear pathway to develop unique, innovative,  
 and timely programs relevant to the external landscape,  
 including student clubs and campus community activities
GOAL 2:  Through a commitment to strengthening assessment  
 systems that support all aspects of Buffalo State,  
 we will deploy evidence-based practices to support  
 transparent data-informed decisions 
GOAL 3:  Review campus processes, policies, and communications  
 with students to enhance involvement and participation
GOAL 4:  Strengthen data stewardship and practices and create  
 innovative, efficient, and effective data strategies that  
 lead to an outstanding educational experience for our  
 students
GOAL 5:  Closely monitor and respond to our students’ sense of  
 safety on campus, including their physical and emotional  
 well-being; empower students to self-advocate PILLAR #3:  
A Shared Vision for Student Success 

8   |   STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026As Buffalo State, we will celebrate the accomplishments of 
our exceptional faculty and staff and commit to addressing  
strategies to support and enhance their work. We have amazing 
people doing amazing things, striving for excellence and fostering 
a positive campus atmosphere. 
GOAL 1:  Increase professional development opportunities and  
 training programs that are relevant to our campus  
 community and support work in serving our students
GOAL 2: Acknowledge and reward faculty and staff for their  
 exceptional work; respond to efforts that are making   
 a positive impact in our campus community
GOAL 3: Promote collaboration across campus
GOAL 4: Increase recruitment and retention of faculty and  
 staff from diverse backgroundsPILLAR #4:  
Professional Success for Faculty and Staff

STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026    |   9During Buffalo State’s 150-year history, we have  
demonstrated remarkable flexibility, creativity, and  
ingenuity. While recent global pandemic challenges have  
affected all, our population of current and potential students  
has most significantly felt the burden of recent global events.  
Our commitment to sustainability reflects this new reality  
and preserves the future. 
GOAL 1:  Develop plans that are fiscally responsible, align with  
 institutional priorities, and follow best-practices 
GOAL 2:  Develop plans that are environmentally responsible  
 and are informed by the United Nations Sustainable  
 Development GoalsPILLAR #5:  
Sustainability for a Better Future 

10   |   STRATEGIC PLAN 2022–2026College Council
Linda A. Dobmeier, ’71, Chair
Melissa Brinson
Allen F. “Pete” Grum
Mylous A. Hairston, ’86 
Charles J. Naughton, ’85
Cindy L. Odom, ’96
Robert M. Zak
Daniel May, Student Representative
President’s Cabinet
James Mayrose, Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs 
James Finnerty, Vice President for Institutional Advancement and 
Executive Director of the Buffalo State College Foundation 
Laura J. Barnum, Vice President for Finance and Management 
Timothy W. Gordon, Vice President for Student Affairs 
Lisa T. Morrison-Fronckowiak, Interim Chief Diversity Officer
Randyll P. Bowen, ’99, Vice President for Enrollment Management
Brian C. Cronk, Dean of the School of Arts and Sciences 
Carol A. DeNysschen, Dean of the School of the Professions 
Wendy A. Paterson, ’75, ’76, Dean of the School of Education 
Institutional Planning Advisory Committee (IPAC)
Kim Barron, AVP Institutional Effectiveness and Planning, Co-Chair
Jim Mayrose, Provost, Co-Chair 
Philip Badaszewski, Assistant Dean, Residence Life Office 
William Benfanti, AVP, Institutional Advancement Office 
Elisa Bergslien, Associate Professor, Earth Sciences and Science  
Education Department 
Andrew Binder, Director of Operations, Performing Arts Center  
at Rockwell Hall 
Emily Boyce, Associate Professor, Music Department 
Curtis Brickhouse, Director of Student Affairs Operations,  
Student Affairs 
Atta Ceesay, Chair and Associate Professor, Political Science and 
Public Administration Department
Kelly D’Aloisio, Director, Financial Management Office 
Olivia Delos, Assistant, Institutional Research Office
Katrina Fulcher, Associate Professor, Speech-Language Pathology 
Department 
Tiffany Fuzak, Research Analyst, Institutional Effectiveness and  
Planning Office 
Michelle Hockett, Associate for Institutional Research, Institutional 
Research Office 
Yanick Jenkins, Director, Educational Opportunity Program Lin Xia Jiang, Professor, Art and Design Department 
Kim Kline, Professor, Higher Education Administration Department 
Carolynn Krupp, Director of Institutional Planning, Institutional  
Effectiveness and Planning Office 
David Loreto, Director of Undergraduate Admissions, Admissions Office 
Charles Lyons, Director, E. H. Butler Library 
Lawrence Maheady, Distinguished Professor and H. Mann Endowed 
Chair, Exceptional Education Department
Nigel Marriner, Registrar, Registrar’s Office
Amy McMillan, Director, Muriel A. Howard Honors Program 
Melissa Meehan, Director of Web Administration, Marketing and 
Communications Office 
Kristen Mruk, Associate Director, Student Leadership and  
Engagement Office 
Wendy Patterson, Dean, School of Education
Laura Hill Rao, Director, Civic and Community Engagement Office 
Sarah Reid, Campus Planner, Campus Planning Office 
Perry Schmidt, Student (B.S.) Dietetics Department
Bhakti Sharma, Associate Professor, Art and Design Department 
Deborah Silverman, Chair and Associate Professor, Communication 
Department 
Gary Solar, Chair and Associate Professor, Earth Sciences and  
Science Education Department 
Amitra Wall, Associate Provost, Academic Affairs 
Amy Wilson, Chair and Associate Professor, Higher Education  
Administration Department 
Institutional Effectiveness and Planning Office
Kim Barron, Assistant Vice President
Carolynn Krupp, Director Institutional Planning
Tiffany Fuzak, Research Analyst
Professional Development Center
Rebecca Eggleston, Professional Development Assistant
Students, faculty, and staff who provided feedback in the  
strategic planning process
CONTACT:
President’s Office
Katherine S. Conway-Turner, President
Cleveland Hall 517  
1300 Elmwood Avenue  
Buffalo, New York 14222
(716) 878-4101
president@buffalostate.eduACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
