The UK’s European university 
UNIVERSITY 
OF KENT 
STRATEGY 2025 
2University of Kent Strategy 2025 
3 www.kent.ac.uk 
OUR VISION – BY 2025 
We will be delivering one of the best education and 
student experiences among UK universities that 
enables and inspires our students. We will be 
internationally known for a transformative student 
experience and employability outcomes regardless 
of background. Our discoveries and research will
emphasise existing and new signature areas, where 
we match the best in the world. Our education and 
research, and the talents of our staff and students,
will support social, economic, cultural, intellectual
and public life in ways that will make us one of the 
leading civic universities. We will have a balanced 
portfolio of programmes having deepened our science 
and engineering base, grown our cultural, creative 
and digital offer, and opened the new Kent and 
Medway Medical School. We will remain distinctive 
amongst our peers in operating with a major stake 
in continental Europe, with a strong European 
dimension in our academic activity. We will be 
delivering education in a variety of ways face-to-face,
online and through alternative routes in particular 
higher and degree apprenticeships. 
OUR VALUES 
Our values are enduring. We have always been a university 
that equally values education and research, believing that 
one enhances the other. We work as a community, based on 
collegiality. Freedom of speech within the law and freedom of
inquiry are fundamental. We are outward looking, we embrace 
change and are willing to do things differently and see things 
differently. We value excellence and we support potential,
wherever it may be found. Our university is based on equality,
diversity, respect and we value each other. We are international
in outlook. 4University of Kent Strategy 2025 

5 www.kent.ac.uk 
AMBITIONS AND ACTIONS 
To deliver this vision we have re-stated our ambitions and 
actions in relation to our core activity of Education, Research 
and Engagement and identified a set of strategic priority areas 
to focus on. These are set out below:
Education and student experience 
We will offer one of the best education and student
experiences in the UK 
Research and innovation 
We will undertake research and innovation that is of the 
highest standards judged by international comparators 
Engagement, impact and civic mission 
We will be a leading civic university 
6University of Kent Strategy 2025 
7 www.kent.ac.uk 
EDUCATION AND 
STUDENT EXPERIENCE 
In order to become one of the very best universities in the 
country for education and student experience, we will take 
the following actions:
•Review our portfolio of programmes and modules, aligned with work to 
set out the size and shape of the University over the next five years. In 
particular, we will grow and expand science, engineering, medicine, and 
creative, cultural and digital programmes. We will ensure our portfolio is 
viable and reflects the diverse needs and best interests of our students. 
•Reward and share great teaching practice and innovation to help flexible 
and creative delivery that develops independent learners and develop a 
coherent and rewarding career pathway for excellent educators to 
achieve their full potential.
•Embed our best practice in access and widening participation,
supporting student attainment, providing mental health support and 
enabling employability. 
•Embed our graduate attributes of Confidence, Creativity and Innovation,
Critical Reflection, Global/Cultural Awareness, Integrity and 
Accountability, Intellectual Curiosity and Resilience into our courses 
and wider University experience.
•Enhance pathways through education by expanding the number of
programmes that offer an intercalated year, opportunities for a year in 
industry or abroad, Higher and Degree Apprenticeships, work-based 
learning and online learning. 
•Enable students to contribute to their curricular and co-curricular
experience through co-production – building a sense of being part of 
an academic community enhancing student voice and engagement.
•Raise our profile and student recruitment in and beyond London and 
the South East. Make use of key partnerships and geographies in our
international recruitment and increase the proportion of international
students. We will refocus our marketing and recruitment practices to 
respond to the rapidly changing environment. 
8University of Kent Strategy 2025 
RESEARCH AND 
INNOVATION 
In order to raise all our research to the level of our best,
increase research intensity and our reputation and profile,
we will take the following actions:
•Identify and invest in a number of signature research areas and 
themes that represent the very best of our work, address global
challenges and can be used to raise the profile of Kent and research 
and innovation at Kent.
•Adopt a ‘researcher developer’ approach, to identify and support
individuals and research groups to deliver significantly high quality 
outputs and impact and generate income with the potential to be the 
next signature area.
•Increase our external income for research and innovation. While 
recognising disciplinary differences, we will intensify support to 
increase our external research income generation to at least that 
of our peer group.
•We will ensure successful delivery of our two research ‘super centres’
which support our ambitions to grow and deepen our science base – 
the Institute for Biotechnology and Molecular Medicine (IBaMM) and 
the Centre for Studies in Cyber Security and Conflict (SoCyETAL).
•Focus support for building excellent research across the university,
supporting careers and professional development across the 
academic life-cycle, from postgraduate to professor.
•Expand and grow our community of Postgraduate Researchers.
•Support and incentivise international collaborations and networks. 9 www.kent.ac.uk 
10 University of Kent Strategy 2025 
ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT 
AND CIVIC MISSION 
In order to give enhanced emphasis to our civic mission,
delivering social, educational, cultural, public and economic 
benefits across Kent and Medway, we will take the following 
actions:
•Build on recent civic initiatives such as the Kent and Medway Medical
School, the Institute for Cultural and Creative Industries and the Centre 
for Higher and Degree Apprenticeships and use them as exemplars of
regional contribution and impact. 
•Profile our sponsorship of secondary schools and student and staff
volunteering as demonstrable ways in which we make a difference to 
our local communities.
•Work in partnership with organisations in Kent and Medway to support
activity which brings resources into the region, enables economic 
growth and contributes to long term sustainability and quality of life 
in Kent.
•Work with disadvantaged groups across the region in order to 
promote access to the university. 
•Actively promote access to our campuses and resources, facilities,
research and international expertise, open lectures and archives and 
building a sense of community and engagement with the university.
•Embed sustainability through building the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals into our research, education, leadership,
operations, administration and engagement.
•Refresh our alumni relations strategy and deliver a fundraising 
campaign that supports our strategic ambitions.
11 www.kent.ac.uk 
STRATEGIC PROJECTS 
The priority areas below are specific projects we need to take 
forward over the next 5-7 years in order to achieve our core 
ambitions and our vision for 2025.
An exciting vision for Medway 
The University has been offering higher education in Medway for over 
20 years, since 2005 as part of the ‘Universities at Medway’ initiative, 
with a mission to provide access to Higher Education in an area of
disadvantage. Over this period the university has played an important
role in the Medway locality working with partner universities, Medway 
Council and the Historic Dockyard to bring about significant change and 
regeneration to the area. However, we now need a fresh and exciting 
vision for our Medway campus activity which addresses current student
recruitment challenges and staff and student experiences as well as our
wider civic mission within the Medway region. In particular, we need to 
build identity and purpose that is distinct from our Canterbury campus,
offer and student experience under the umbrella of the University of Kent
overall mission.We have identified core strengths, and associated 
demand, in creative and digital industries, health and well-being, in 
innovation and business oriented programmes, as well as expertise in 
supporting further and higher degree apprenticeships and work based 
learning. We will foster an approach to delivery which emphasises agility,
creativity and innovation and to creating a student experience which 
responds to the changing demographic of students. We need to be more 
engaged with and open to the local Medway community and work in 
partnership with the historic Dockyard and Medway Council.12 University of Kent Strategy 2025 
13 www.kent.ac.uk 
Institute for Creative and Cultural Industries 
The creative industries are the fastest growing sector of the UK economy 
contributing £91.8bn to the economy in 2016. The government has 
recognised that the creative industries could be worth £128.4 billion to the 
economy by 2025 and help to create up to 1 million new jobs by 2030. Our
proximity to London provides exciting opportunities for Medway, not least
in terms of the proposed Thames Estuary Production Corridor.
The University has longstanding strengths in creative and cultural
industries. These include our academic programmes in architecture,
history, design, drama, media, digital arts and music technology and our
cultural offer through Gulbenkian and Colyer Fergusson programming 
activities in innovative live performance, visual arts and film. We hold 
National Portfolio Organisation status with Arts Council England (ACE) and 
have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with ACE to work together
to develop the creative economy in Medway. Our vision is for the University 
to work as a key partner in Medway’s strategic repositioning as a Creative 
City, so that Medway plays the leading role in the Cultural and Creative 
Industries (CCI) in the South-East. 
To promote and co-ordinate all this activity we will establish an Institute 
for Cultural and Creative Industries (ICCI) as a home for our creative 
industries’ activity at Medway and as a vehicle for connecting, promoting 
and branding all University of Kent CCI activity regardless of location. ICCI
will provide a focus for the Creative Industries embedding business, digital
and innovation in our courses to equip our students to be exceptional
candidates for employment and for self-employment - to invent the jobs of
the future. Working in close partnership with industry and national strategic 
bodies such as the Creative Industries Federation and Nesta, Kent will be 
acknowledged as a leading university for the CCI. 
CONTINUED OVERLEAF 
14 University of Kent Strategy 2025 
STRATEGIC PROJECTS (CONT)
Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS) 
We have secured funding for 100 medical school places to establish the 
first medical school in the County of Kent with our partner Canterbury 
Christ Church University. Kent and Medway faces significant and well
documented challenges in developing and maintaining its clinical
workforce. These challenges are compounded by a population that is 
ageing, growing, and is in places, particularly along the coast, among the 
most deprived in England. Our new Medical School will directly address 
the key challenges to the local health economy: playing a unique and 
transformative role for the patients and users of services. Our vision for
Kent and Medway Medical School is that it will be inclusive and accessible.
It will be a beacon for first class medical education and research, drawing 
on the distinctive strengths of both universities across arts, humanities,
social science and science and will be the first choice for all those aspiring 
to achieve excellence in person-centered medical care in the UK. By 
providing distinctive, socially diverse and insightful graduates KMMS will
enable, influence and drive changes within the clinical workforce to deliver
high quality healthcare and outcomes across Kent and Medway. We have 
a unique opportunity to do things differently and influence the education 
of the future medical workforce and future health care delivery and health 
outcomes in our region as well as grow exciting research activity that
spans the bench to the bedside. The School must be ready for its first
intake in 2020 with its first graduates in 2025.
15 www.kent.ac.uk 
DPC 128194 1/19 
