Visionaries for  
the topics  of the future.  The Stut
tgart Way  
We study the future ! Themenbereich3
We are visionaries  
for the topics of the future  
on the Stuttgart Way  
of integrated interdisciplinary  
research and teaching.„
Vision
5 4
1911 | First Academic Chair for  
Aeronautical Engineering 
In this year, Alexander Baumann became the first professor for “ Aeronautical engineeringand automotion” in Germany. Today’s focus on aerospace engineering and also automotive research developed from these beginnings.Lightweight construction | 1962
From the 1960’s, the University of Stuttgart deve
 loped
 into a center of lightweight construction for natural  
construction and supporting structures oriented to biological  
models (among others Frei Otto).19
96 | Supercomputing
In the 1950’s already the capacity of the Stuttgart mainframe computer was  comparatively high for the requirements  of aerospace technology. In 1997 the  Supercomputer Center (HLRS) became the  Federal Computer Center. Thus a further  step was taken on the way to today’s focus on simulation technology.2012 | Europe’s largest driving 
simulatorThe innovative driving simulator  enables the research and development  of intelligent driving assistance  systems that are intended to reduce both fuel consumption and also the number  of traffic accident victims.
1996 | Towards the sun
The solar glider Icaré II is a project of the aerospace technology department. It is a masterpiece of lightweight construction. In 1996 Icaré II made a successful attempt  at a world record: The solar glider was able to fly the greatest distance to date, 350 km, without a stopover. 2005 | 1st Collaborative Research Center (CRC/TRR)
In the Center of the CRC /TRR “Control of Quantum Correlations 
in Tailored Matter” , the development of new states of matter and dynamic quantum states takes place. In this process the scientists  of the universities of Stuttgart, Tübingen, and Ulm, and also of  the Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research in Stuttgart intend  to connect aspects of quantum optics with Solid State physics.
The Stuttgart Way  Vision The Stuttgart Way  VisionVisionary since 1829
1848 | The Fehling Test 
From 1839 to 1883 Hermann C. Fehling was Professor of Chemistry at the Polytechnic School Stuttgart. He was the discoverer of the “Fehling solutions” for determination of sugar content.  But Fehling was much more important than his solution. He made Chemistry in Stuttgart a flagship discipline and a magnet for the general public.
The first motor-driven carriage | 1886 
From 1857 to 1859, Gottlieb Daimler studied 
mechanical engineering in Stuttgart.  
In the year 1886, he was the first person to 
install a motor into a carriage, and hence  
became the inventor of the automobile –  
a milestone in history.Invention of nylon | 1938  
From 1915 to 1922 Paul Schlack studied 
Chemistry at the Technical University of 
Stuttgart, and afterwards he was an  
Assistant Professor in the Chemical Institute 
until 1924. In 1938 Schlack discovered  
during his experiments the polymerisability  
of caprolactam, and he developed from  
this a polyamide fiber, so-called nylon.1972 | Discovery of the tobacco mosaic virus
In 1972 Karl-Wolfgang Mundry was involved in the discovery of the tobacco mosaic  virus and assisted in solving basic questions of molecular biology. He was one of the founders of the study program “Technical Biology” , which is today among the most successful reform attempts in Germany in the field of biology.Foundation as  a vocational school1890Technical University1983English-language international Master’s Degree Programs2010
STEM College2014“Joint Degree Program” with Georgia Tech
1900Right to grant doctoral degrees1914First woman to receive a degree1973/7410,000 students enrolled
2007Success in the excellence initiative2012/13
1st Research campus 
ARENA20361957Start of Construction Campus Vaihingen2016
The Times Higher 
Education Ranking: 
1st place worldwide 
in the category 
external funding 
from industry1967University of Stuttgart2012System accreditation
1829
7 6
 Mission statement
The University of Stuttgart is one of the leading technically 
oriented universities in Germany with global significance. Located centrally in an economically strong region with vast cultural integration, the University sees itself as a hub of university-based, extramural and industrial research. Furthermore, it takes a role  as a guarantor of research-based teaching, focused on quality  and holism. The University is dedicated to researching and strengthening the interfaces between technology, society and culture in an interdisciplinary manner, defined as the Stuttgart Way.This means integration of engineering, natural sciences,  humanities and social sciences based on the funda
 mentals of 
cutting-edge research at a disciplinary level.
The University of Stuttgart implements innovative concepts 
 
in research and teaching in order to provide knowledge  
and strategies for a meaningful and sustain
 able development. 
 
It focuses on basic research that is both knowledge oriented  as well as application related and is actively part of regional, national and international research networks.The University of Stuttgart is committed to the principle of unity between research and teaching. Students acquire knowledge, expertise and the power of judgement, in accord with the guidelines of scientific research and awareness. The University fosters fascination for the sciences, supporting its students and junior researchers at all stages of their careers. It promotes independent thinking and provides an environment for responsi-ble action. In doing so, the University educates individuals into exceptional experts who think integratively and globally and act responsibly in sciences, economy and society.
Founded in 1829, at the beginning of the Age of Industrial
 ization, 
the University of Stuttgart continues to prepare the way for 
innovation within an economically and scienti
fi  cally power
 ful 
region and contributes to the economic success and prosperity of our society
. This process combines with the requirements of a 
social and cultural change, which allows an early and extensive input of social interests in research and design, as well as teaching and further education.
As an employer, the University provides support for all of its 
employees and enables individuals to reach their full potential. The University strives for a healthy work-life balance as well as equality and diversity. It is committed to a leadership style of cooper
 ation and esteem and to dealing with one another fairly – 
independent of status, age, origin or gender
. In its decisions  
and adminis
 trative procedures, the University aims for greatest 
possible transparency and promotes loyalty to its alumni, partners and sponsors.
The University of Stuttgart stands for open- mindedness, individuality and community spirit. It brings together students that are eager to learn, highly motivated employees, outstanding teachers, excellent researchers as well as visionary thinkers and inventors.  By means of its culture of integration, the university creates and conveys knowledge for shaping the future of our society.
The Stuttgart Way  Vision The Stuttgart Way  Vision
8
We study the future ! Themenbereich We study the future ! Themenbereich 9
Research
Globally 
renowned 
10
Simulation sciences 
In 2000, the University of Stuttgart was the first university in Germany to research simulation technology in its whole interdisciplinary breadth and it thus achieved a worldwide reputation.  To the present day the University has lost nothing of this glamor, on the contrary: the Cluster of Excellence Simulation Technology (Sim Tech) is already being funded in the second phase of the Excellence Initiative of the Federal Government and the Federal States’ Governments, and it will also play a central role in the public competition for the future Excellence Strategy for funding top university research. In Sim Tech more than 200 scientists bundle simulation models and methods that up to now were only developed in isolation, into unified systematic knowledge with the goal of making computer simulations more efficient, predictions more reliable and visualizations more precise. With this unique approach, scientists from the fields of engineer-ing, mathematics, computer science, natural science and also humanities and social sciences forge new paths together in the research area  of modeling complex problems and of computer simulation. The Research Project “Data-Inte- grated Simulation Science” is aimed at new possi
 bilities to store and analyze very large quan
 - 
tities of data – key word Big Data – a regional 
 
Research Alliance of the Universities of Stuttgart and Heidelberg.The dynamic simulation of systems with very large numbers of particles is the focus of  the Collaborative Research Center 716. The com
 puter
-reconstructed behavior of atoms and 
molecules can answer scientific questions.
Production technologies
In Stuttgart numerous institutes in the fields of construction, production and vehicle technologyand also additional partners combine their experience and their knowledge in practically allfields of production technology. This creates decisive synergies not only for research on basic principles and teaching, but also especially for industrial applications. An example of this are the fields of mechanical and systems engineer-ing, infrastructure, material science, process engineering, automobile construction, optics and medical technology.The Research Campus ARENA2036 (Active Research Environment for the Next Generation) bundles the competences established in the region in lightweight construction and innova-tive production technologies. In a 10,000 m
2 
high-tech center at the University of Stuttgart, Science and Economics jointly develop automo-bile production and the automobile of the future.The “Graduate School of Excellence advanced Manufacturing Engineering” (GSaME) conductspromotion of the new generation in the context of its internally developed interdisciplinary Interdisciplinary Research Highlights
The Stuttgart Way  Research The Stuttgart Way  ResearchThe University of Stuttgart is considered to be among the outstanding research universities in Germany and worldwide. For years, scientists here have conducted internationally competitive, cutting-edge research, and they prove their success again and again in the competition for funding and excellence projects. Thus the University offers excellent conditions for research with numerous interdisciplinary projects that are relevant worldwide and achieve international recognition.doctoral studies program, which is intended for future technical and management tasks at a university or in industry. The doctoral students contribute with their research to working out  the scientific foundations of production design, dominating industrial production in times  of internationalization and digitalization, and designing the factories of the future.
Quantum technologies
In the world of quantum mechanics everything  
is different, since in the range of a few nano-  
meters, classical ideas of matter are often no longer correct. The University of Stuttgart is one of the German universities at the forefront of making this world accessible – from research on principles to the development of technological applications.Thus the scientists at the “Center for Integrated Quantum Science and Technology IQ
ST”  
research, for example, the fusion of gases, crystalsand supra-fluidities. Scientists from the one-of-  
a-kind association of researchers from the Universities of Stuttgart and Ulm together with the Max Plank Institute for Solid Body Research have been able to successfully create a supra-  
fluidity from dysprosium atoms, among other projects. The so-called “Quantum Ferrofluid”  
is not only a supra-fluid, but it also displays astounding magnetic characteristics similar to the ferrofluid known in the Classical world.  
Networked disciplines –  
The Stuttgart Way
13 12
For example, it can form drops that are one 
million times lighter than helium or water drops.The new kind of material could be the first step to a supra-crystal, a spatially arranged material with suprafluid properties.The research team of ZAQuant, the interdisci-plinary center for applied quantum technology has set for itself the goal of further developing novel nanophotonic quantum sensors. To this end the sensors must use the most recently developed principles of quantum physics and  of nanophotonics and combine them with  each other. In this respect the research method pursued on the ZAQuant is unique interna
  -  
tion
 ally
, which takes place in a research building 
built specifically for this purpose.To build upon the IQ
ST, the “Alliance for quantum 
innovation” of the Universities of Stuttgart  and Ulm have made it their goal to confront the challenges of the second quantum revolution and blaze trails to technical application. To this end, the knowledge of biology and medicine gained at Ulm is to be implemented in the center for applied quantum technologies ZAQuant in prototypes.The linking of broad fields of investigation  has as its goal new possibilities for sensors, metrology and material research.The Collaborative Research Center (CRC/TRR) ”Controlled interaction in customized material” (Cocomat) investigates quantum physics phenomena, combines atom- and solid body physics into new applications and investigates novel quantum states of matter. In this process, scientists study the border regions of physics and biology. An opto-electronic measuring station enable research of applied quantum technologies.Digital Humanities The Digital Humanities take a new look at  the contents of humanities and broaden their spectrum using computer technology –  for example in linguistics: The Collaborative Research Center (CRC 732) “Incremental specification in context” deals with double-  and multiple meanings in language, thereby combining theoretical linguistics and computer linguistics.The Center for Reflected Text Analysis (CRETA) researches technical methods and tools for text analysis in the research area of Digital Human-ities. The methods are to be developed and employed across subject matters for posing text-analytic questions from literature, language, history and social science as well as philosophy.The Stuttgart Research Center for Text Studies conducts interdisciplinary research in areas of text science, focusing on the main subject of hermeneutics, Material Studies (in association with the German Literature Archive Marbach) and Digital Humanities (together with the Institute for Natural Language Processing of the University of Stuttgart). The Center has initiated among other things the project “ePoetics”, which prepared a selection of twenty German- language poetics as digital text corpus and developed interactive analysis and visualization tools.The Stuttgart Research Focus “Language and Cognition” operates interdisciplinary research in the fields of linguistics and cognition. In the center of this is a collaboration unique in the 
Confronting the challenges of the future with quantum research.Research pavilion: 
Exceeding the limits  of traditional building constructionsGerman-speaking area between theoretical 
linguistics (Institute for Linguistics) and Computer Linguistics (Institute for Natural Language Processing).
Architecture and adaptive building
Current developments in the field of computer- based modeling, simulation and production offer architecture new possibilities to analyze principles from nature, to transfer them into  an engineering model, and to apply them to construction and other areas of technology.The goal of the Collaborative Research Center (CRC/TRR) “Biological Design and IntegrativeStructures” are multi-functional, adaptable and at the same time ecologically efficient structures that leave the limitations of traditional building construction far behind. To this end scientists from the Universities of Stuttgart, Freiburg and Tübingen have in sight the ecological features of natural structures, in addition to the improve-ment of the efficiency of technical constructions.Further research activities in the field of adaptive shells and structures aim to modify geometries and also material and component properties so that material and energy is saved on a scale that was previously considered unattainable.
The Stuttgart Way  Research The Stuttgart Way  Research
14 15
The University of Stuttgart, nestled in one of 
Europe’s most vibrant industrial regions, links science, economy and society. This creates many forms of inter-disciplinary collaboration – for instance, in numerous Collaborative Research Centers (CRC sometimes CRC/TRR), but also in applications-oriented research assignments.The University also maintains a close relation-ship with non-university research institutions such as the Max Plack Society, the Fraunhofer Society, the German Aerospace Center  and the German Literature Archive Marbach. Hence the optimal prerequisites for cutting- Science at the highest level
edge research at the highest level are all to be found in Stuttgart.
Gauss Center for Supercomputing
High Performance Computing is both science and also key technology in today’s society.  The access to high- and highest-performance computers and their use has become indispens-able for scientific work in many fields of re-search. Industry and economics today develop top-quality products that cannot be designed without model formation and supercomputing.The three most efficient national supercomput-ing centers (HLRS Stuttgart, JSC Jülich and  LRZ at Garching) together make up the Gauss Center for Supercomputing (GSC).Together they offer one of the largest and  most powerful supercomputing infrastructures in Europe and undertake a wide spectrum of industry and research activities. The Stuttgart HLRS operates “Hazel Hen” , currently the quickest supercomputer in Europe.
Flying Observatory SOFIA 
The Stratosphere Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA) is a German-American project to research the cosmos. The University of Stuttgart is in charge of the scientific guid-ance of the mission, and it thereby underscores the international claim of Stuttgart aerospace science. With a 2.7 m telescope integrated into  a modified Boeing 747 SP , astronomic obser
-
vations are carried out in infrared and sub-milli
-meter wavelength ranges far above the inter -
ference of Earth’
s atmosphere. The distance 
infrared spectrometer FIFI-LS of the University  of Stuttgart enables scientists to observe stars and solar systems in creation. The project, which is comparable to a galactic expedition can already point to numerous scientific successes.
Wind Tunnel
In the large-scale vehicle wind tunnel at the Research Institute for Automotive Systems and Vehicle Engines, real conditions on the streets can be copied with extreme precision. The treadmill system can be exchanged for serial and racing vehicles, a flow stabilizer and a  side wind generator help reproduce the most  realistic possible test conditions. This testing and measurement equipment enables us to better reach the goals of modern automobile construction, such as for example the reduction of CO
2 emissions and of internal noise and also 
the increasing of costs efficiency by optimization of wind current resistance and of the develop-ment process. Thus the wind tunnel makes  an important contribution to the readiness for the future of the automobile city Stuttgart.
International Center for Cultural and  
Technological Studies (IZKT)Technical innovations change not only our everyday life, but also our culture and our thinking. At the same time, the way we handle technology is influenced by culture.The IZKT combines research at the interfaces  of culture and technology. Of particular interest  are the connections and influences between cultural changes and technical progress at an international level.With the support of extramural partners, the Center offers a novel forum for interdisciplinary and international exchange and at the same  time serves as a showcase for the University of Stuttgart to the general public.
Visual Computing
The goal of the Collaborative Research Center  “Quantitative Methods for Visual Computing”  
is to simplify the representation and processing of continually increasing amounts of data in order to further increase the quality of computer generated images. To this end processes are developed to make the applicability of data and images measurable and determinable.Behind “Visual Computing” there are numerous applications from research and industry and also private life. One field of research, for example, is the effect of virtual environments and city models on people: How are three-dimensional data – real or simulated – collected? Does the representation include all important information? What is the added value offered by new interaction options? New technologies such as brain-computer interfaces, among others, aid in the research. The Visualization Institute of the University  
of Stuttgart as a central university research insti
 - 
tution is unique in Germany
.Drops under extreme conditionsDrop-dynamic processes take place in many areas of nature and technology – oftenunder extreme environmental conditions.There is still not much fundamental knowledge about these processes. Hence the goal of  the Collaborative Research Center (CRC/ TRR)  “Drop-dynamic processes under extreme environmental conditions” is to glean a more profound physical knowledge about these processes in order to improve technical  systems and be better able to predict natural processes. The CRC/TRR is complemented by the German-Italian graduate students’ association “Tech
  
no
 
logies for Drop Interaction” (DROPIT), 
which analyzes the difficult to distinguish detailed process and also the microstructure  of the surfaces.
The Wind Tunnel: 
trail-blazing innovations
SOFIA enables unique glimpses of distant galaxies.
The Stuttgart Way  Research The Stuttgart Way  Research
17 16
Founding a startup with Startup Autobahn
The Drive of Silicon Valley at the center of  the art of engineering: Startup Autobahn is a project common to the University of Stuttgart, the Research Campus ARENA2036 and also  the companies Daimler and Plug and Play. Startup Autobahn focuses above all on hard-ware- and software oriented projects and  ideas that deal with the future of mobility.
Founding a startup at the University of Stuttgart
The founders of startups from the university environment put their scientific knowledge into practice directly as added economic value. Whether it be scientific publications or founding a startup, the TTI (Technology Transfer Initiative) supports students and research assistants from the University of Stuttgart and neighboring universities with multifaceted measures on the way to entrepreneurial self-sufficiency.
Open Research Platform
Who researches what? Where do I find what devices? The open research platform gives quick answers to businesses who wish to search for  a research partner or use research infrastructure at the University of Stuttgart.Patents or licensesWhether in chemistry technology, energy, material processing, electrical devices, optics, measurement techniques or engineering – the range of patents of the University of Stuttgart  is very wide, and it illustrates the international position as effective pioneer for innovation.  The University boasts more than 1,000 patent applications and patents, with which it – together with software and licensed expertise – reaps 7-figure income each year. The patent portfolio in the field of laser technology and also patents in the fields of material flow/logistics and biology, for instance, are especially interesting.
Intra- und Entrepreneurship
Since the winter semester 2016/2017 , the University of Stuttgart offers a Master’s study program for professionals on the topic “Intra- and Entrepreneurship, jointly with Stuttgart Media University”. The focus of this continuing education program is on managing and imple-menting technology-oriented company founda-tion and innovation projects. The study program combines business- and technology-related contents that are oriented to the special require-ments of intra- and entrepreneurship.
Successful Transfer of Knowledge and Technology
ContactUS! Science meets economicsWith ContactUS! the University of Stuttgart offers a contact point for both smaller and mid- sized businesses and also for global players in the economy. ContactUS! supports businesses in the search for the correct contact person and provides discipline-appropriate contacts  to scientists and institutions of the Universityin addition to an overview of the research focuses of the University.ContactUS! does not only serve to initiate cooperation arrangements with businesses, but also to construct long-term, strategic relationships with them and involve  the companies early in research, teaching and continuing education.
Startups and new entrepreneurs
Baden-Württemberg with its large number of startups is among Europe’s most active regions.  Startups from top research are important for this power of innovation. Anyone who would like  to go into business for himself taking results of research or a project, will find at the University of Stuttgart numerous funding programs, consulting offers and information – from study programs to accompanied startup programs, from consulting appointments to the provision of office space.
The University of Stuttgart sets up a close relationship and a successful transfer of knowl-edge and technology between its research institutions and business enterprises in the region – and beyond the region. The very practical orientation benefits research and teaching. At the same time, economic players profit from rapid access to new scientific knowl
 edge and contact to experts in their 
specialized fields. There are numerous possi
-
bilities of collaboration for businesses: From small assignments such as measurements 
 
on the university’s diagnostic and measuring equipment, use of machines, analyses or expert reports to research and development projects and longer-term designed research assignments.The collaboration with the University, for example in the context of practically oriented Master’s theses and dissertations, helps busi-nesses to make contact with graduatesand with the next generation of scientists and thus assures well-educated new blood.The results of the University’s research, espe-cially discoveries, patents and industrial  patents, can be valued economically in different ways, for example through licensing. In the context of cooperation agreements, the Univer-sity of Stuttgart accompanies the process of further development of licensed technologies into market-ready products.
Innovative and  
 reliable partner for the 
transfer of knowledge  
 and technology 
The Stuttgart Way  Research
18
We study the future ! Themenbereich We study the future ! Themenbereich 19
Teaching
Attractive 
for students
21 20
The Stuttgart Way  Teaching The Stuttgart Way  Teaching20 The study programs and fields of study
Engineering fields
The University of Stuttgart offers first-class conditions for studying engineering. The diverse study programs range from Architecture, Urban Planning, and Civil Engineering to Electrical Engineering, Information Technology and Computer Science  to Simulation Technology. Vehicle and motor technology also play an important role in Stuttgart. The more recent study programs include Electromobility, Integrated Urbanism and Sustainable Design and also Didactics of Technology.
Science and mathematics
Scientific foundations are imparted in Mathematics, Physics  and Chemistry. Besides, there are specialized courses of study, such as food chemistry and technical biology.
Language and cultural studies
Study programs such as English, German, Romance Languages, but also Philosophy of Technology and Art History are included in the wide range of language and cultural studies at the University of Stuttgart. These are complemented with interesting disciplines such as Language Theory and Comparative Linguistics, Computer Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Practice- oriented Philosophy of Culture.
Economics and social sciences
The University of Stuttgart offers a wide array of study programs with social relevance from Technically oriented Business Admin-istration and Empirical Political and Social Research to Sports and Social Sciences to Information Systems.Studying at a top research universityThe strong third party research funding received by the University of Stuttgart leads to outstand-ing conditions for research and teaching.  Here researchers work with the most modern equipment on large, future-oriented projects. They know exactly what they are talking  about when they teach contents and methods. Students also profit from state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Many research facilities are also available for teaching. For example, Europe’s largest driving simulator enables a large number of experiments on automobiles. The Visualization Institute VISUS  is able to illustrate  massive amounts of data. The development of new materials and sub-stance is tested  for stability at the materials testing institute.The University of Stuttgart has worldwide connections. It offers 555 exchange options  with partner universities on all continents. There, students can gain experience abroad and get a view of the science of other countries. Once there, students get an insight into the world of science in a foreign country and gain international experience. However, students remaining on site will also profit from an international research culture: 20 percent of  all students come from abroad. Interdisciplinary focus projects combine the knowledge and methods of different lines of research. One significant example for such an  interdisciplinary project is the excellence cluster Simulation Technology (SimTech), which also offers an elite study program. Of course, engineering sciences, natural sciences, the humanities and social sciences at the University of Stuttgart work together. Researchers do not stick with their own kind at the University of Stuttgart. They are part of active exchanges with the urban community through field laboratories and public projects. Thus, knowledge does not accumulate in  vain but the research regularly receives new impulses from the challenges of the future.  Here there is lots of room for own good ideas, discoveries and developments.
Research-led teaching and learning.
23 22
Faculty  1
Architecture and 
Urban Planning Faculty 4
Energy-,  
Process- and Bio- 
EngineeringFaculty 3
Chemistry
Faculty 6
Aerospace  
Engineering and 
GeodesyFaculty 7
Engineering Design, 
Production Engineering 
and Automotive 
Engineering
Faculty 8
Mathematics 
and PhysicsFaculty 9
HumanitiesFaculty 10
Management, 
Economics and 
Social Sciences22 23
The MINT-Kolleg Baden-Württemberg is an 
institution for new students and those interested in studying, who would like to improve their knowledge in the STEM subjects Science, Tech- nology, Engineering and Mathematics. (MINT  is the German equivalent for STEM.) The college was founded in 2010 as a shared institution  of the University of Stuttgart and the Karlsruhe Institute for Technology, in order to make the transition from high school to university easier.The comprehensive options are divided into courses preparing for and courses complement-ing university studies.Those interested in studying at a university can choose, according to their level of knowledge, between compact courses, such as the three-week pre-course,  or preparatory courses, lasting from one to two semesters.In these courses, which coincide with the university courses, students can strengthen and deepen their knowledge. Typical courses deal with higher mathematics or technical mechanics.The courses take place in close coordination with the respective study programs. Exam- Preparation courses and general courses, such as work techniques, time-management and self-organization, round off STEM’s offer. MINT-Kolleg – The best way to begin studying The Faculties
Additionally, the “open study room” allows students to learn independently under qualified supervision.Each semester, roughly 1,400 students attend the MINT-Kolleg courses in Stuttgart. Furthermore, around 1,600 new students visit the pre-courses before entering the university. The MINT-Kolleg has 20 highly-qualified teachers who support the students in preparing themselves optimally for studying science and/or engineering at the university.
The MINT-Kolleg offers  
courses which lay the foun- 
dation for an optimal start to 
studying at the university.Faculty 5
Computer Science, 
Electrical Engineering 
and Information 
TechnologyWith its research-driven teaching and its interdisciplinary-oriented profile through the integration of engineering sciences, natural sciences, the humanities and social sciences  the University of Stuttgart has positioned itself as a nationally and internationally sought-after study destination. With its wide range of subjects, the university is considered a future- oriented place for successful research and teaching. It creates framework conditions for technically and methodologically top-quality  and unified study programs, successful gradua-tions and a comprehensive formation of the students’ personality. The University is divided into more than 150 institutes and 10 faculties.
Faculty 2
Civil- and  
Environmental
Engineering
The Stuttgart Way  Teaching The Stuttgart Way  Teaching
25 24
24
The University of Stuttgart is a cosmopolitan institution of higher leaning where 
scientists and scholars are glad to receive students from all over the world. Young persons from more than 100 countries and all continents currently compose one-fifth of the students at the University of Stuttgart. Our English-language study programs are especially popular among international students, and these are continually being expanded. Studying at the University is an international experi-ence, and this aspect is being actively expanded upon: Numerous partnerships, institutional arrangements and formal exchange programs with universities around the world demonstrate the University’s global networks. The University of Stuttgart participates in the global scientific society in national and international networks such as TU9, European University Association and Magalhães.University studies on a global scale
International Center (IZ)At the Vaihingen Campus, the International Center (IZ) offers information and study guid-ance regarding study stays abroad, partner universities, and double degree programs.  For international students and applicants the International Center offers German courses for preparation of the Exam of German as a Foreign Language, and also preparatory, intensive courses for international exchange students. The Center provides practical information on living and studying in Stuttgart. International students receive professional advising, super
-
vision and support in office hours, in special supervision programs and at regular events that facilitate integration. The Center is also an important contact point for guest researchers from other universities who wish to inform t
hemselves about a research stay at the University 
of Stuttgart.
Welcome Center
The Welcome Center of the University of  Stutt
 gart offers a comprehensive service for 
guest 
researchers to facilitate their adaptation  
to Stuttgart. This includes in addition to support  for pre
 paring and carrying out their stay at 
 
the University of Stuttgart, support with paper-work that arises in connection with the stay. Options are complemented by support and integration activities during the stay. In addition, the Welcome Center supports employees  of the institutes where international scientists  are active as guests. The Welcome Center of Stuttgart University considers itself the central contact point and also the interface between university and extramural institutions with which the international visiting scientists will come into contact.
Double Degree
Double Degree programs offer students the option of acquiring a degree from two univer
 si-
ties in the context of their Master
’s Degree 
studies. The University of Stuttgart currently offers double degrees with Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, France, the Netherlands, Japan, Malaysia, Sweden and the USA – in selected Master’s study programs. For the double degree, a pre-structured program must be completed, which as a rule includes a one- year stay at the host university. The master’s thesis is directed and evaluated by professors from the University of Stuttgart and the respec-tive host university.Welcome Campus – integration of refugeesWith the Welcome Campus, the University of Stuttgart has set up a coordination point for refugees interested in studying that is intended to facilitate their (re-)entry into university studies. The Welcome Campus offers individual consultations. The further support measures of the University include especially language promotion through language mentors, language exchanges and language courses among  other things. The choice is continually being expanded, which enables integration of refugees  as quickly and smoothly as possible into the University’s daily life.
The Stuttgart Way  Teaching
We study the future ! Themenbereich27 26
The Stuttgart Way  Continuing education26 27
Life-long learning and continued education are today more important  
than ever. Society, economy and job descriptions are in continuous transformation. Due to demographic changes, a higher retirement age  and the predicted shortage of specialized labor, people will have to work longer than ever. The requirements on the job market increase, and  the creation of new technologies requires continual refreshing of one’s knowledge in order to maintain one’s own employability. Well and continually educated skilled workers are of great importance for business and for the whole society. Continuing education is therefore increasingly regarded both among employees who wish to keep up to date, and  also by companies, who place a value on scientifically grounded continu-ing education of their employees to be invaluable.A parallel study program enables professionals to acquire new qualifica-tions without having to abandon their job. All Master’s programs for parallel study for professionals at the University of Stuttgart are designed in this way. In addition to a first degree qualifying for the profession, these programs require at least one year of qualified professional experience which must be demonstrated in a field relevant for the study. The students study in the online master study programs according to the so-called “blended learning” -concept. This stipulates that roughly 80 percent of classes are attended online and according to own arrangement. 20 percent are attended in in-person classes. The options in construction economics and international building law are conducted as compact “block” modules at the University. The majority of Master’s online study programs  (Citizen Participation, Logistics Management, Integrated Gerontology, Intra- and Entrepreneurship) can also be taken in the context of so-called contact studies in individual modules. These lead to a certificate from  the University and can be applied to a Master’s Degree program.Master’s Degree programs parallel to employment Center for Teaching and Continuing Education, Language Center
The following Master’s Degree  Programs for employed persons are currently offered at the University  of Stuttgart:
y yBuilding Physics M.BP .,  
 Master Online
y yCitizen Participation M.Sc.,  
 Master Online
y yLogistics Management M.B.E.,  
 Master Online
y yIntegrated Gerontology M.Sc.,  
 Master Online (expiring)
y yIntra- and Entrepreneurship (tech)  
 M
.B.E., Master Online
y yIndustrial Real Estate Management   
 (IREM), M.Sc.
y yInternational Construction:  
 Practice and Law M
.B.E.Center for Teaching and Continuing EducationAnyone who as an outsider enjoys participating in the University’s ambiance  and wishes to continue their education has come to the right place at the  Center for Teaching and Continuing Education. The center promotes exchange between disciplines, cultures and generations and offers all interested persons  a place for university learning and continuing education. In the context of  Studium Generale, for instance, auditors can attend regular classes and special classes organized for auditors, without being matriculated in the University  or employed there.The Coordination Office for Scientific Continuing Education also offers com
 -
 
pre
 hensive educational possibilities on different topics: from (
e-)seminars and  
(e-)workshops to continuing education courses on topics such as Coaching, Mediation, Project Management and Manage-ment. The development of individual work techniques is included among the options, along with courses for social commitment or social entrepreneurship.
University Language Center
The Language Center offers numerous general, degree-oriented and professionally oriented language courses from Arabic to Esperanto, Russian and Japanese – also in periods between academic terms. The 16 languages include,  of course, German as a foreign language. The supplementary curriculum “Learning to teach German as a foreign language” takes into account the continually increasing need for teachers  for German as a foreign language and as a second language with the appropriate language teaching skills.The work of the Language Center makes an important contribution to the sought-after inter- nationalization of the University of Stuttgart. Students will receive support in learning the University languages of German and English, and they will be assured additional advantages on the international job market. The Language Center values inter-culturalism, communication skills and multilingualism in its teaching staff. The opportunity is directed at students enrolled in all departments. In spite of this, free places may be taken up by employees of the University of Stuttgart, students of other universities and also auditors.
29 28
28 Attractive and reliable employer Rankings 29
THE/The Times Higher Education Ranking 2016/17 
 External funds from industry per researcher:
 z1st place internationally
 Doctoral degrees granted per researcher:
 zin the top group with a 98.2 score (out of 100) 
 Financial means per researcher:
 zin the top group with a 95.8 score (out of 100) 
QS World University Ranking 2015
 Rank at
tained worldwide
 by subject
:
 zCivil engineering  |  Top 51–100
 zElectrical engineering  |  Top 101–150
 zMaterials science  |  Top 101–150
 zMechanical engineering  |  42nd place
 by faculty:
 zEngineering and technology  |  107th place 
Rank among German universities
 by subject
:
 zCivil engineering  |  2nd place
 zElectrical engineering  |  4th place
 zMaterials science  |  4th place 
 zMechanical engineering  |  3rd place
 
  by 
faculty:
 zEngineering and technology  |  5th place 
 
U-Multirank 2015
 
  Overall 
ranking:
 zTop grade in 11 categories
 
  Faculty 5 – Computer Science, Electrical Engineering 
 
 
  and Information T
echnology:
 zTop grade in 9 categories
 EU-Research Framework Program (updated: 11.3.2016) 
 Number of par
ticipations in EU projects:  
 23
6 /  3rd place among all German Universities 
DFG Funding: Funding Atlas 2015
 DFG grants in absolute figures
 zCivil engineering and architecture  |  2nd place
 zEngineering sciences  |  4th place
 zHeat technology/Process engineering  |  9th place
 zInformation technology, system-/electrical engineering  |  3rd place
 zMechanical engineering  |  7th place 
DFG grants per professor
 zHumanities and social sciences  |  4th place
 zNatural sciences  |  7th place 
Humboldt Ranking 2014 
 International a
ttractiveness of Stuttgart research in the  
 engineering fields: 
Research stays of international fellows and  
 prize-winners of the A. 
v . Humboldt Foundation:
 z7th place in in Germany (absolute ranking) 
German Council of Science and Humanities Research Ranking 2012 
 English linguistics 
 zoutstanding 
English literature and cultural studies
 zvery good 
CHE University Ranking 2015/16
 Information technology and physics
 zoutstanding in at least 5 selection criteria
Third-party research funding per professor  (Federal Office for Statistics, Nov. 2015)
 z1st place among German universities with  
 roughly 
744,000 euros per professor 2013Extremely family-friendlyWith over 5,000 employees, the University of Stuttgart is an important employer in the regional capital – and a family-friendly employer as well. Part of the University strategy is to achieve compatibility of profession, studies, and family. Information and practical help concerning this topic is offered by “Service Uni & Familie” ,  which is a part of the Center for Gender-Equality of the University of Stuttgart. Due to its commit-ment in these matters, the University has been repeatedly commended as a “family-friendly University” .
Childcare
For the young children of employees the Uni
 -
 
versity provides daycare places at daycare centers. Children of students receive preference to childcare places at the institutions of the Student Center Stuttgart and from the associa-tion Stups e.V . in Stuttgart, Esslingen and Ludwigsburg. In emergencies, the “Service Uni & Familie” offers for employees and students care for children between the ages of 0 and  12 years – in exceptional cases even around the clock. In addition, “Service Uni & Familie” also coordinates the Stuttgart Research Holidays,  a creative and exciting day program for school children during the school holidays.STEM Daycare CenterA university daycare center for children from  0.5 to 6 years old is currently being planned on the Vaihingen Campus. Here children will be introduced in play to scientific and technical topics with a specific, didactic concept that fits with the profile of the University of Stuttgart. Starting in 2018, children of students and employees will be able to research and play to their heart’s content in the new Daycare Center.Family friendly infrastructureAt both locations, the University places value  on a family-friendly infrastructure: At the central location there are options for breastfeeding and diaper changing, in new and reformed buildings further spaces are to be added. A parent-child room in the student’s building at the Campus Vaihingen is being planned, and in addition the Student Center provides family housing unitsfor students with children.
The Stuttgart Way  University of Stuttgart
30
Stuttgart has ideal conditions for studying and researching in one of  
the most vibrant economic regions of Europe. The region lives from  its healthy sectoral mix and its combination of world-class businesses, innovative mid-sized businesses, high technology and cutting-edge research. In Stuttgart one cannot only study and work in excellent con
 di
  -
 
tions but also enjoy an outstanding quality of life: The city is nestled in  a picturesque landscape, and it is surrounded by gentle hills, woods  and vineyards. Urban flair and idyllic country life, cultural offers varying from opera to hip hop, top sporting events and master chefs make their contribution to the image of the city.Welcome to Stuttgart!
Culture in StuttgartStuttgart boasts great cultural opportunities – it is no wonder that the Swabian metropolis has recently been voted the culture capital of Germany for the second time. The central point of Stuttgart’s high culture is the Opera, the Stuttgart Theater, the Stuttgart Ballet and the Kunst- museum together with the Staatsgalerie with world- famous performing art. At the Mercedes-Benz world and the Porsche Museum, automobiles become works of art.  Also musically Stuttgart calls the tune: International superstars give top-class concerts, at places like the Hanns-Martin-Schleyer-Halle, the Porsche-Arena, numerous smaller stages, and  naturally also in the world-famous concert halls of the Liederhalle. In Stuttgart, people of different religious and cultural backgrounds live together.  
The culture and leisure options reflect this diversity: Stuttgart’s cultural life is shaped by influences from all cultural circles, and not least of all by a colorful array of intercultural and multi-cultural festivals and events. 
Celebrating in Stuttgart
Downtown there is always a reason to party: Night becomes day in countless clubs and taverns on the “longest party-mile in Germany” , the Theodore-Heuss- Strasse (“Theo”). The almost legendary department and residence parties are also popular with many students! In Stuttgart, people celebrate high-spirited festivals throughout the whole year: from the spring festival and the Cannstatt Folk Festival, the traditional Stuttgart “Wine Village” and the idyllic summer festival around the Neue Schloss (New Castle) to the lively, alternative street festivals in the Heusteigviertel, in the Bohnen- viertel or at the Marienplatz.The Christmas Market, which draws countless visitors from near and far to Stuttgart each year, must also  be mentioned. There is always something happening in Stuttgart.
Sports
Many high-quality sports events fill Stuttgart’s sports calendar each year and secure Stuttgart’s fame as  
a sports city. This includes, for example, the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix, the Stuttgart run (marathon),  
the Mercedes Cup International Weissenhof Tennis Tournament, the German Open Championships, the ADAC Super Cross, the EnBW gymnastics World  
Cup (DTB-Pokal) and the German Masters International Horse Show.
Relaxing in Stuttgart’s nature
Who studies a lot, has to relax as well. There are many opportunities to do so. Stuttgart boasts Europe’s second- largest supply of mineral water, which means there  are numerous baths and springs that invite to relax and unwind. With its parks and woods, Stuttgart is one  of Europe’s greenest big cities. And whoever has had enough of city life, can reach nature quickly – the woods of the regional capital continue to the South on an almost unbroken trail, to Schönbuch, a 156 k m
2 nature 
park with wooded hills, enchanted valleys and ponds full of waterlilies. Thanks to its good transportation connec-tions, Stuttgart is the stepping stone to the Swabian Alps, the Black Forrest, Lake Constance and of course to numerous grape-growing regions around the city. 
The Stuttgart Way  Stuttgart The Stuttgart Way  Stuttgart
www.uni-stuttgart.deUniversity of Stuttgart
University CommunicationsKeplerstr. 770174 Stuttgarthkom@uni-stuttgart.de
Picture credits:
German Aerospace Center, Frank Eppler, Christina Fischer, Institute for Lightweight  Design and Construction of the University  of Stuttgart, Max Kovalenko, NASA,  Uli Regenscheit, Research Institute for  Automotive and Engine Technology Stuttgart, SimTech/David Ausserhofer, visuell.de
Text:
University of Stuttgartvisuell.de
Print run: 1,000
December 2016
visuell.de
