THE UNIVERSITY OF MONTPELLIER
ADOPTS ITS MASTER PLAN FOR
ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION (SDTE)
In view of the curr ent challenges facing our  society , the University of Montpellier
decided to draw up a master  plan for  its ecological transition a year  ahead of
schedule, and to vote on it at the Board of Governors meeting on November  20. Four
axes and 48 actions to be deployed over  the 2023-2026 period (fully articulated with
the institution's 2021-2026 multi-year  contract and 2023-2025 contract of objectives,
means and performance) in order  to reinfor ce the measur es alr eady put in place over
recent years at the UM and to initiate and coordinate the implementation on each site
of an ecological transition policy commensurate with its ambitions.
A FEW WORDS ABOUT THE MASTER PLAN
FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION
The University of Montpellier's SDTE is a year ahead of schedule in its response to the
Climate-Biodiversity and Ecological Transition Plan launched by the French Ministry of
Higher Education and Research, and supplemented by a framework note in June 2023,
which calls for each institution to draw up a sustainable development - social and
environmental responsibility master plan by 2024.
Adopting this master plan for ecological transition as early as 2023 was of the utmost
importance. That's why the UM had already anticipated a number of actions and planned
others. It was therefore only natural that this plan should be produced in 2023, in perfect
harmony with the 2023-2025 Contract of Objectives, Means and Performance and the
2021-2026 Multi-Y ear Contract.
"This master plan for ecological transition (SDTE) is therefore a major responsibility for
the university . I have every confidence in the momentum generated and in the deployment
of this unifying project, which brings together all the university's structures and which I
am sure will be enthusiastically supported by all students and staf f," declares Philippe
Augé, President of the University of Montpellier .
THE MAIN STRATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES
OF THE MASTER PLAN FOR THE
ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION
FOCUS 1: EDUCATION AND TRAINING, "TRAINING
STUDENTS AND STAFF FOR THE ECOLOGICAL
TRANSITION".
Main objectives :
In particular , this area will meet the requirement to set up training modules on ecological
transition for sustainable development (TEDS) for , and comprises 1 1 actions.
An educational engineer will be recruited, teacher training courses will be or ganized and
teaching resources will be made available via UM's moodle platform.
Technological demonstrators will also be set up on campus to involve students in concrete
ways.
Training courses on the ecological transition will be of fered to UM staf f, as well as
specific training related to their profession .
AXIS 2: RESEARCH AND INNOVATION, "PROMOTING
RESPONSIBLE RESEARCH FOR THE ECOLOGICAL
TRANSITION".
Main objectives :
One of the main objectives of this area is to encourage research laboratories to assess the
impact of their activities on the environment, taking into account business travel, resource
consumption and purchasing . To this end, the adoption of the Labo 1.5 research
consortium approach supported by CNRS, Inrae, Ademe, Inria and Sorbonne Université
will be encouraged, and available indicators will be provided to laboratories.
AREA 3: ENVIRONMENT, "ACTING FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT AND CHANGING BEHAVIORS
Main objectives :Integrate ecological transition and sustainable development issues into teaching
methods •
Promoting and supporting the development of staff skills in ecological transition •
Encouraging student commitment to and pr omotion of the ecological transition •
under graduates
Integrating the ecological transition into r esear ch and innovation at the UM •
Increasing interaction between science and society•
Reducing UM's carbon footprint •
Reducing and managing waste •
Protecting and pr omoting biodiversity •
Last January , the UM adopted an ener gy conservation plan aimed at reducing its ener gy
consumption and thus its contribution to reducing global warming. The SDTE plans to
support this approach by carrying out a major diagnosis of greenhouse gas emissions
throughout the UM. The actions under this heading are an extension of the numerous
energy-ef ficiency upgrades to buildings and connections to district heating networks
carried out under the stimulus plan, and include the installation of photovoltaic panels.
These actions are coupled with a policy in favor of soft mobility , with the gradual
replacement of the fleet of combustion-powered vehicles by electric vehicles, and the
encouragement of the use of bicycles and public transport. A travel charter should soon be
in place to encourage UM staf f to choose the train rather than the plane for their business
trips whenever possible.
Another focus of the plan is waste management. For several years now , the UM has been
organizing the collection and reconditioning of IT  equipment and certain of fice furniture.
For everyday waste, sorting bins are available on certain sites, but selective collection
needs to be rationalized and standardized.
With regard to biodiversity , the SDTE plans to continue the actions already undertaken on
the campuses: " zero pesticides, zer o watering, late mowing and pruning to encourage the
reproduction of insects and bir ds, which are greatly impacted by the envir onmental crisis
", recalls Frédérique Carcaillet. To help staf f and students discover the richness of their
campus, biodiversity workshops have been planned so that everyone can discover the
common biodiversity of everyday life, and participate in the ef fort to inventory , monitor
and promote it.
AXIS 4: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE, "BUILDING
GOVERNANCE FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION
AND PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS".
Main objectives :
Since 2022, the UM's ecological transition policy has been overseen by the vice-president
in char ge of environmental issues, together with all the other vice-presidencies and
departments of the University . An administrative and operational support of fice dedicated
to sustainable development and corporate social responsibility has been set up within the
Direction du pilotage, with the principal mission of steering and monitoring work related
to the ecological transition. In its first year of operation, this support of fice has set up a
decision-making and operational structure comprising a steering committee, an operational
committee, a network of "ecological transition" referents and thematic working groups. 
Tools for steering and monitoring the implementation of the various actions will be
developed and deployed in order to best allocate human, technical and financial resources
for the UM's ecological transition. They will also enable the performance of the approach
to be assessed and analyzed, and will be a valuable source of information for
communicating, raising awareness and encouraging commitment and support from all.Integrating the ecological transition policy into UM's management structur e •
Mobilize the necessary human, technical and financial r esour ces •
A responsible development appr oach that r econciles economic, social and
envir onmental concerns•
