   University of Southern Queensland  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2021–2025
 OUR 
IMPACT OUR 
CONNECTIONS OUR 
PEOPLE OUR 
PLACES
Solving problems that matter starts with local solutions 
to global challenges. 
The University of Southern Queensland will: The new world of work requires organisations to embrace 
change and transform their practice.  
The University of Southern Queensland will:Ideas and knowledge empower people, organisations and 
communities to change the world.  
The University of Southern Queensland will: As an open and engaged university we will create places 
that inspire creativity and innovation.
The University of Southern Queensland will: 
Empower Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
peoples to take their rightful place in our teaching, 
research and enterprise.
Prioritise innovative educational offerings that are a 
catalyst for transforming the lives of students, their 
families and communities.
Through our innovative research, develop new 
knowledge and new ways of looking at problems to 
deliver creative solutions to the challenges we face.
Support our students to amplify their life and work 
experiences through life-long educational pathways 
as they become leaders in their chosen field.
Partner with our communities as a responsible 
corporate citizen to achieve a better and sustainable 
future for all.Enable a learning, research and working culture that 
drives innovation and collaboration and focuses on 
the future.
Evolve our education and research offerings 
to strengthen resilience and enterprise in our 
students, industries and communities. 
Foster a safe, diverse and inclusive university 
culture and environment that enables everyone to 
achieve their potential.Provide cutting-edge social-learning and 
collaborative experiences for students, staff and 
partners through our physical and virtual campuses.
Support community-level innovation that brings 
new ideas, skills and technologies to life. 
Increase industry and community use of our 
campuses, creating opportunities for collaboration, 
innovation and a vibrant university experience. Extend the impact of our teaching and research in 
our flagship areas through active engagement and 
translation with industry and community.
Create new sources of value by better leveraging 
international partnerships and alumni networks. 
Build our capability to drive insights and impact 
from our data.
Maintain a strong financial position to enable us to 
seize opportunities and invest in the future. Act as a catalyst for economic and community 
development by enabling new and emerging 
industries to be successful and sustainable.
Build and strengthen shared purpose across 
our communities through engagement and 
philanthropy.Our success will be evaluated by measuring our performance in the following 
areas:
• Growing our student population and broadening participation in higher 
education
• Being the University of choice across our regions (for staff and students)
• Delivering an outstanding student experience and outcomes
• Growing the quality and quantity of research outcomes
• Contributing to the sustainable development of our communities
• Maintaining our capacity for investment into our future
This plan will be brought to life through the University’s Integrated Planning  
Framework as it is cascaded through a set of core business and enabling 
strategies. The University Council will monitor and evaluate progress 
regularly, through out the life of the plan.
The University supports the Government’s objectives for the community:
Good jobs
Good, secure jobs in our traditional and emerging industries
Better services
Deliver even better services right across Queensland
Great lifestyle
Protect and enhance our Queensland lifestyle as we grow.The University of Southern 
Queensland will be renowned for 
our innovation and excellence in 
education, student experience, 
research and engagement.VISION
Building on our strengths as 
Australia’s leading regional 
university, we will realise our 
vision by creating and sharing 
knowledge, transforming lives and 
solving the problems that matter 
to our world.MISSION OUR 
ASPIRATIONS OUR 
PERFORMANCE OUR 
STRATEGIC PLAN
VALUESWe acknowledge the traditional custodians 
of the lands and waterways upon which 
the University of Southern Queensland is 
located.  In developing our Strategic Plan, we 
celebrate the continuous living cultures of 
First Australians and recognise and respect 
the wisdom and diversity of Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander people as the keepers 
of ancient knowledge whose cultures and 
customs continue to nurture this land.  We 
pay our respects to Elders past, present and 
future.
 
Our new Strategic Plan is being brought to life 
at a time of increasing disruption in our global 
community. Building upon our signature 
strength of flexible, innovative education, we 
will continue to focus on student success as 
we transform our teaching and research to 
grow our student population and research 
capacity. We will achieve national and 
international recognition for our flagship 
areas of agriculture, health, space and 
defence and regional development.Our aspirations will be achieved by engaging 
locally and globally to translate ideas and 
knowledge for the benefit of our communities. 
Our work will have regional relevance, national 
significance and global impact.
We have considered our commitment to 
respect, protect and promote human rights 
when developing the strategies that are 
included in this plan.  
The University will grow, be innovative, 
engaged and future-focused, embracing 
the opportunity to develop a culture of 
disruption. We will harness our reputation as 
Australia’s leading regional university for the 
development and benefit of our stakeholders. 
 
Over the coming decade, the University 
of Southern Queensland will embrace the 
opportunities of a fast changing world, building 
a university culture that values and rewards 
innovation and creativity, demonstrating 
always the value that an open and engaged 
university brings to its communities. RESPECT
We respect each 
other and value 
diversity of people, 
culture and ideas 
within USQ’s 
community.INTEGRITY
In all we do, we 
apply and expect the 
highest personal, 
professional and 
ethical standards. 
Together we act 
with transparency, 
consistency and 
fairness.EXCELLENCE
Through expertise, 
innovation and 
creativity, we work 
together to excel 
in all that we do 
as a University 
community.
TRANSLATE 
IDEAS AND 
KNOWLEDGE INTO 
OPPORTUNITIESCREATE VIBRANT 
HUBS OF 
EDUCATION AND 
RESEARCHBE INNOVATIVE, 
ENGAGED AND 
FORWARD-
THINKINGBUILD A BETTER 
FUTURE 
WITH OUR 
COMMUNITIES
Drive the ongoing digital transformation of our 
operations.
This strategic plan was reviewed [August 2023] and remains current. 
