STRATEGIC PLAN  
2023 - 2025
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore2
 The 2023-2025 Strategic Plan stems from the Università 
Cattolica’s desire to strengthen its original, cultural 
and ideal mandate, rediscovered and relaunched 
during the Centenary celebrations, in order to respond 
to the demands of civil society and the Church: a 
rooting in the centrality of the person, understood as 
social subjectivity and the driving force behind every 
possible transformation and design of the future, in 
the sign of a profound unity of culture.
Strategic Plan 2023-20253
INDEX  
Mission and Vision 4
The new challenges 5
Methodological note 6
Strategic areas 7
	    Educational offer and student services 8
	    Research 9
	    Global Engagement and Internationalisation 10
	    Third Mission 11
	    Development of human resources, equal opportunities 13
	    Sustainability 14
	    Operation, digitisation and information systems  15
Final objectives of the plan 16
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore4
MISSION AND VISION
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore “in line with the spirit of its founders, specifically aims 
at assuring the presence of committed people in the academic and cultural world who are 
prepared to address and solve the problems of society and culture.” (Statute of Università 
Cattolica, Article 1). The University fulfils these tasks through an in-depth and qualified higher 
education which is adherent to the principles of Christianity, respecting the autonomy inherent 
in every form of knowledge, and according to a conception of science placed at the service 
of the human person and of civil coexistence, in accordance with the principles of Catholic 
doctrine and consistent with the universal nature of Catholicism and its high and specific 
demands for freedom. 
It is on the basis of this strong tradition that the University of Italian Catholics will be confronted 
in the coming years with scenarios of post-traumatic change (the post-economic crisis, the 
pandemic and now the conflict in Europe) of society and the role of the university, which will 
also bring into play longer term transformations (technological evolution, fragile international 
balances, climate challenges, the growth of economic and symbolic inequalities). This new 
phase requires careful and forward-looking planning.
With regard specifically to the basic choices, objectives and priorities that guide the University’s 
policies, the University  aims to transmit to its students a unifying education in knowledge, and 
this is better achieved in the context of a studium generale where each student (and professor), 
while dedicated to cultivating particular disciplines, is called upon to live and breathe an 
overall climate of dialogue and synthesis between the multiple horizons of knowledge, within 
which anthropological and ethical profiles are of particular relevance.
If one wished to indicate, in a concise manner, the priority objectives of Università Cattolica 
del Sacro Cuore, these can be identified in its intention to continue to be a place of research 
and an “educating community” that aims to contribute to the development of studies and to 
prepare young people for scientific research, public offices and professions with an adequate 
preparation and a moral education informed by the principles of Catholicism. The University 
aims to contribute to the advancement of the sciences and to adhere rigorously to the 
methodology required by each of them, without ever putting the primacy of the human 
person in second place.
The drive to foster the integral development of the person today translates into an academic 
community capable of generating intelligence and creativity capable of confronting the 
transformations taking place at national and international level.
Maintaining this unity of experience accomplishes the great cultural enterprise of forming 
people and citizens - not just specialists - who are accustomed to confronting the great 
questions that history, culture and society continue to pose.
Strategic Plan 2023-20255
THE NEW CHALLENGES
The centrality of the person is embodied in all the University’s major missions: a teaching 
methodology conceived as education and formative relations, Research produced from the 
perspective of rigorous investigation aimed at discovering and communicating the truth, a 
service to society for authentic human advancement, in the face of the new challenges that 
await us. 
In particular: 
● On the educational offer side, the University will have to contend, on the one hand, with the 
increasing competitiveness of the university environment, above all with the emergence of 
new education providers (who act in the sector with the logic and technology of the global 
companies of which they are an expression), and, on the other hand, with the increasingly 
pressing demands of our stakeholders for a significant strengthening of internationalisation 
activities and greater integration between traditional and digital education: both 
requirements linked to a growing need for customisation of educational services. In order 
to move effectively, while preserving its originality, the University will have to devise a policy 
of access qualification, a rethinking of the way in which teaching is delivered and the 
content of the education on offer, and a series of measures aimed at an ever-higher quality 
of the student experience.
● Research is required to continually improve the quality standards of projects and publications, 
to promote new research lines and methodologies consistent with the ‘mission-oriented’ 
approach of European research, for an original and distinctive positioning within the 
international and Italian ‘research system’, which is the cultural signature of Università 
Cattolica. The University is able to express a multidisciplinary approach, supported by original 
and authoritative scientific expertise that should be enhanced and further developed in a 
system approach.
● As far as ‘global engagement’ is concerned, the University is to intensify its collaboration 
activities with higher education and cultural institutions around the world in order to increase 
educational and professional opportunities for the academic community, developing 
partnerships, alliances and agreements for incoming and outgoing international mobility, 
for the development of scientific research on strategic topics for the University and for the 
strengthening of international cooperation activities.
● The crisis of the culture of dialogue and peace will require a greater incisiveness of the 
Third Mission, through the promotion of projects and initiatives aimed at affirming and 
disseminating the values on which the educational mission of the University is based, The 
numerous solidarity-based activities already undertaken at various levels, national and 
international, which offer students and the entire academic institution the opportunity to 
experience processes of sharing, inclusion and integration between peoples and cultures, 
will be further developed and strengthened.
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore6
 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 
In the course of 2022, the Rector launched, involving the Chancellors and Delegates, 
an analysis of the reference scenario in which Università Cattolica operates, which 
could form the basis for the drafting of a new strategic planning document for the 
University. The elaboration of these projects involved all academic and administrative 
components, through specific working tables for each strategic area.
The strategic document was discussed at a plenary meeting (November 2022) 
attended by the members of the working tables and the Faculty Deans before the 
“Strategic Plan 2023-2025” of Università Cattolica was submitted to the Academic 
and Governing Bodies for approval in December 2022.
Following the approval of the Strategic Plan 2023-25, an Integrated Operational 
Plan was drawn up that outlined the projects to be launched for each of the three 
financial years 2023-24-25.
The drafting of the Integrated Operational Plan has, therefore, had the aim of 
translating the strategic directions, indicated in the approved Strategic Plan, into 
activities to which the various components of the University shall commit themselves, 
thus contributing to the achievement of the University’s objectives in the period 
covered by the Plan.
Strategic Plan 2023-20257
STRATEGIC AREAS
 EDUCATIONAL OFFER
 AND STUDENT SERVICES 
 RESEARCH
 GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT
 AND INTERNATIONALISATION 
 THIRD MISSION
 DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, 
 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
 SUSTAINABILITY
 OPERATION, DIGITISATION 
 AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore8
EDUCATIONAL OFFER
AND STUDENT SERVICES
The project essentially has three dimensions:
● Interdisciplinarity: compared to the traditional first- and second-level training offerings, 
design of new training programmes and redesign of existing programmes, promoting 
interdisciplinarity and collaboration between faculties.
● Internationalisation: increase in the number of international study programmes/courses 
(where the international character is not only determined by the language of delivery but 
also by the disciplinary content of the training activities and the definition of the outgoing 
professional profiles) and opportunities for structured mobility  (e.g. dual and double 
degree) in order to increase the quality of the programmes and meet the demands of 
students; increase in the number of ECTS recognised following non-curricular mobility 
experiences (e.g. Erasmus +, international internships, summer schools, etc.); increase, also 
in programmes taught in Italian, of courses taught in English and/or which convey content 
useful for training professional profiles also sought after on the international market.
● Innovation: starting from a careful analysis of the three levels of education offered (Degree 
Programmes, Graduate Degree Programmes and Postgraduate Programmes), design of 
flexible and integrated training paths, useful to develop specific and transversal skills, highly 
demanded by the labour market.
Achieving these objectives also requires support for teachers in improving and innovating 
the teaching methods used, in order to offer students a quality learning experience that 
encourages active participation, the acquisition of knowledge and the development of the 
required skills, also by favouring the use of the latest technologies. In order to do so, starting from 
the numerous initiatives already active in our University aimed at enhancing and supporting 
the teaching skills of teachers and at accompanying the students’ learning experience in a 
qualified manner, under the coordination of the University Teaching & Learning Lab, training 
paths for teachers will be defined and exchanges of good practices will be promoted, which 
will also be useful to extend the use of new technologies.
Strategic Plan 2023-20259
RESEARCH
The aim is to create an environment conducive to the scientific growth of young researchers, 
starting as early as doctoral training, including through incentive mechanisms, maximising the 
present and future benefits of NOP and NRRP funding and the scientific returns from internal 
research funds.
The actions are aimed at reviewing the general guidelines for research at the University, 
completing projects funded by the NRRP and NOP and developing their future follow-up. Further 
objectives are: strengthening incentives for scientific production and its internationalisation; 
investing in databases and advanced calculation systems for research; strengthening the 
procedures for allocating internal research funding; developing a research communication 
plan.
The aim is to maximise the scientific results of the funding obtained under the NRRP, making 
them capable of generating persistent and evolving research activities, establishing the 
University’s role of national and international excellence.
Internal funds for scientific research are mainly dedicated to projects of particular interest to 
the University that aim to engage interdisciplinary research teams on sensitive and topical 
issues that are not only scientific but also social and value-related. Their nature as limited and 
valuable resources, which have allocative alternatives, dictates that the maximum fruits be 
obtained from them.
The objectives of the Plan are to bring the governance of internal funds to ensure the 
maximisation of results on three strategic fronts: (a) to carry out exploratory research on 
emerging topics that do not find space in European and national funding lines or which, 
by their nature, are on the fringe but are of particular relevance to Università Cattolica; (b) 
to promote original research of a multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary nature that generates 
structured collaboration between the disciplines present in the University, in particular between 
hard sciences and social sciences and humanities; (c) to create a base of results and expertise 
that can give rise to proposals in the context of national and international competitive calls 
for research.
Also, in line with the National Plan for Open Science 2021-2027, the University must adopt 
an Open Science strategy in order to orient all its scientific production towards it, so as to 
communicate research outputs for the benefit of both the scientific community and the public 
and private stakeholders to whom Open Science provides access.
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore10
GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT 
AND INTERNATIONALISATION
The aim is to continue and expand the process of strengthening the international profile of 
the University, increasing its attractiveness to Italian and foreign students and enhancing the 
global reputation of Università Cattolica. In particular, the actions are aimed at developing 
administrative processes suitable for the efficient and coordinated management of all activities 
of an international nature; enhancing the international educational offer, in synergy with the 
requests of Faculties interested in developing double degree programmes (global articulation); 
developing processes to increase the attraction of Università Cattolica  to international lecturers 
(visiting professors) and actions to promote and enhance the outgoing mobility of students 
and lecturers of the University. In order to enhance the international reputation of Università 
Cattolica, the establishment of national and international teacher and student communities 
and the promotion and consolidation of global academic networks are planned.
The central point of this initiative is to strengthen strategic partnerships with universities, research 
institutes, public bodies and companies for the development of programmes, articulation/
double/joint degree programmes, for students enrolled at Università Cattolica who wish 
to acquire a foreign qualification, together with the degrees awarded by the University, 
and to promote the enrolment of international students, registered at other universities, in 
undergraduate and graduate degree programmes offered by UCSC. In addition, the aim is 
to increase the number of individual courses taught in English within faculties and open to 
international students, in order to promote inbound mobility.
The development of partnerships may take place directly or through organisations specialised 
in the development of asynchronous online programmes such as Higher Education Partners 
(HEP) or through existing academic collaborations such as SACRU.
It also becomes necessary to adapt outgoing and incoming mobility, both in presence and 
virtual (e.g. Internationalisation at Home), to the European (ESG) and national (AVA) quality 
assurance system indicators defined by ANVUR. 
In particular:
● enhancing current mobility by improving the recognition of credits that the student acquires 
abroad;
● develop new programmes taking into account ANVUR indicators in order to achieve higher 
recognition of credits acquired abroad;
● developing the international mobility of PhDs in accordance with AVA3 requirements.
 
Strategic Plan 2023-202511
THIRD MISSION
The aim is to foster and strengthen the development of stable relations with the world of 
institutions, culture and business in order to increase the presence and attractiveness of the 
University on the national and international scene.
The University will have to create stable partnerships with external stakeholders, bringing 
together professors, students, facilities and research lines. The initiatives produce internal and 
external spin-offs for the University in terms of reputation and legacy (student attractiveness, 
research opportunities).
An important role in the strategic positioning of the University is played by the UCSC Alumni 
community, which was established in 2017 and is now made up of over 30,000 graduates 
who, thanks to their ability to circulate the image of Università Cattolica with renewed strength 
(Alumni Ambassadors), can support the generation of a progressively increasing flow of 
additional resources to support institutional activities.
The University has always paid special attention to continuing education. From the years of its 
establishment, it started specific lifelong learning programmes at all its locations, anticipating 
the European directives on lifelong learning by several decades.
The model realised so far can be confirmed in its general layout. It combines the free initiative 
of professors, research centres, high schools, etc. with a centralised management activity on a 
single platform and with standard procedures shared across all locations.
It therefore seems strategic in the next three years to focus as much on maintaining a good 
market level for the already mature sectors, in which, however, we see the competitiveness 
of other training players growing (in particular in the areas of CME, banking and finance, 
communication, teacher training, preparation for public selection process and professional 
qualification examinations) as on the growth of those sectors that are currently less developed 
with reference to continuing education (e.g. agrifood, public administration, management, etc.).
Nowadays, due to the ANVUR evaluation system and the ministerial conception of the work 
of universities, the activities of technology and knowledge transfer, spin-offs, trademarks and 
patents assume an increasingly important aspect in the overall evaluation of the university 
system.
In this sense, the company/research relationship becomes decisive for increasing the transfer 
of research carried out in the University to the productive world, particularly with regard to 
scientific faculties. In addition, the transfer of knowledge to organisations and institutions, 
including not-for-profit ones, for the improvement of the activities and processes of the 
institutions themselves, even with respect to personal services, is now increasingly in demand. 
Much is already being done in this area, but much more needs to be done.
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore12
With regard to the topic of patents, especially in order to address some of the critical issues that 
have arisen in recent years, a specific support action is needed for professors and researchers 
who intend to proceed with the registration of trademarks, patents and plant protection rights 
as part of their research activities.
Finally, in the area of widespread entrepreneurship, it seems more necessary than ever to offer 
concrete help to those who intend to set up spin-off activities based on scientific innovations, 
and at the same time to continue and expand activities aimed at young people who intend 
to develop innovative ideas in order to turn them into business realisations or, more generally, 
into solutions to be put into the labour market.
Strategic Plan 2023-202513
DEVELOPMENT OF
HUMAN RESOURCES, 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
The activities are aimed at developing actions that favour the valorisation of Human Resources 
and the recognition of the equal dignity of the person in terms of gender, generational 
equity, equality in terms of different abilities, support for the family and parenthood, and the 
dissemination of a culture of equality in the recognition of differences.
● Development of Human Resources: the actions envisaged by this project aim to - starting 
from a review of the operating model and underlying processes currently in place at the 
University in the provision of services to users - to introduce innovative approaches for the 
organisational analysis and streamlining of processes and operating models, in a context of 
continuous change that requires investment for the professional growth of staff and for the 
development of an “Organisational and Digital Culture” and for the evolution of the Human 
Resources Function as a facilitator of change and facilitator of learning.
● Maternity/paternity support for researchers and professors: the actions envisaged consider 
the activation of Family Enrichment Paths for professors and technical/administrative staff 
to support parenthood and the care of family ties and the activation of measures to remove 
any obstacles due to special family needs, guaranteeing equal access opportunities also to 
international mobility initiatives.
● Definition of a management model in the medium to long term of the University’s Gender 
Equality activities: it is envisaged to rationalise and optimise the UCSC actions in the field 
of Equal Opportunities through the networking of the various actors working on the equal 
opportunities issue (Equal Opportunities Committee, Technical Committee for the drafting 
of the GEP, GEP Team) and the establishment of a “task force” on the issue. It is also planned 
to initiate an evaluation of international and national standards and best practices on Equal 
Opportunities, which may lead, within the framework of the plan, to the elaboration of a 
proposal for an internal management model, to be submitted to the competent bodies.
● Activation of services to support parenting for professors, technical/administrative staff 
and students: the actions envisage, first of all, the launch of a need analysis process and 
the feasibility analysis of the various initiatives, which can be made available to professors, 
technical/administrative staff and students (socio-educational, recreational, innovative and 
excellence services for children that can make use of the most recent acquisitions in the field of 
educational sciences, psycho-social sciences and management of educational services). These 
services can be designed on the basis of the needs identified in the academic community, 
meeting the requirements and peculiarities of the different locations of the University.
● Strengthening the organisational coordination of the SISDD (Services for the integration of 
students with disabilities and with SLDs and SENs): in order to guarantee an increasingly 
high-quality service for students with disabilities and SLDs at all sites, the organisational 
coordination of the SISDD will be strengthened, separating services for students with SLDs 
from those with disabilities and identifying qualified staff and dedicated funding lines.
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore14
SUSTAINABILITY
The aim is to raise the University’s sustainability standards closer to international best practice, 
while also enhancing and increasing teaching, research and Third Mission activities in this 
area. The actions are aimed at optimising the combined operation of the structures already 
in place at the University (Steering Committee and Competence Centre) to produce a gap 
analysis on the sustainability of current management and initiate an investment programme 
for all locations, including a green procurement programme. Furthermore, courses, research 
and external initiatives related to sustainability will be systematically surveyed and monitored 
and valorised through communication. The research and collaboration networks dedicated to 
sustainability in which the University participates will be consolidated and expanded.
The European Union’s goal of progressively moving towards “climate neutrality” or “Net Zero” 
is adopted as the environmental management benchmark. In the current phase of energy 
markets, achieving environmental sustainability and climate targets through appropriate 
investments can generate energy and material savings that result in significant cost savings.
Strategic Plan 2023-202515
OPERATION, DIGITISATION 
AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The main objective is to pursue the progressive digitisation of the University’s activities with 
respect to both external stakeholders and internal processes and procedures.
The lines of intervention concern projects within the information systems function and projects 
supporting other business functions that require specific digitisation/automation projects.
Digital technologies are evolving with exponential speed. From Artificial Intelligence to 
blockchain, the innovations that will drastically change our future are already among us.
In an initial phase, emerging technologies in particular will be experimented with because 
of their potentially interesting connection to didactics and communication, with the aim of 
expanding the boundaries of traditional didactics. The immersiveness of Extended Reality 
technologies could be used in laboratory or simulation activities both in executive and in 
medical training (tele-presence in the operating theatre, virtual/augmented reality technologies 
for the study of human anatomy).
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore16
FINAL OBJECTIVES
OF THE PLAN
By implementing the projects envisaged within the Integrated Operational Plan, the University 
will be in a position over the next three years to:
● Support its distinctive positioning by strengthening its identity and mission elements 
through projects that increase Università Cattolica’s presence and attractiveness nationally 
and internationally.
● To make its educational offer more competitive, rationalising the existing one in such a way 
as to create the “spaces” to launch new initiatives foreseen in the plan.
● Improve student services in the crucial stages of the career path, in the entry phase (by 
innovating the methods of engagement, promotion and orientation of prospective students), 
during the path (by redefining the operational model of the Student Hub) and in the exit 
phase (by innovating placement initiatives and making the relationship with the world of 
work more proactive).
● Improving the Student Experience, by investing in Student Life (understood as the 
enhancement of meeting spaces and the evolution of learning spaces) and the optimisation 
of the User Experience of the student’s digital and application tools.
● Innovating and experimenting with new teaching methodologies through the use of new 
technologies to support classroom teaching.
● Internationalise the Faculty by enhancing the structuring of outgoing mobility paths and 
visiting professors.
● Internationalising the management processes and the student journey of the international 
student. Strengthen outgoing student mobility offers by defining a more transparent and 
straightforward University policy in the recognition of ECTS.
● Launch, after the successful experimentation of the Faculty of Economics, a project for 
International Accreditation of other programmes at the University.
● Provide mechanisms for the valorisation of Università Cattolica researchers to make the 
academic pathway in Università Cattolica more competitive.
● Increase the recognisability of the Università Cattolica Research system through a structured 
communication and dissemination strategy of competences and results.
● Fostering and promoting a culture of equal opportunities.
● Enhance and capitalise on projects and initiatives for an increasingly “Sustainable” University 
in an identified and communicable strategy.
● Optimise internal and external communication flows, relaunching the University’s Brand 
Identity. Reinforce the progressive path of digitisation and optimisation of internal processes, 
coupled with the development and training of human capital.
● Renew and upgrade the technology infrastructure and core management applications.
Milan
Largo A. Gemelli,1
tel. 02 7234 1
Piacenza
Via Emilia Parmense, 64
tel. 0523 599 111 
Cremona
Via Bissolati, 74
tel. 0372 499 110
Brescia  
Via Trieste, 17
Via della Garzetta, 48
tel. 030 2406 1
Rome
Largo F. Vito, 1
tel. 06 3015 1
 
 
 
www.unicatt.it
