University of St Andrews Strategy 2022-2027
World-leading | Diverse | Digital | Sustainable | Entrepreneurial
Introduction  2
Executive summary  4
Our commitment to social responsibility 6
World-leading  8
Diverse  12
Digital  16
Sustainable  20
Entrepreneurial  24
Find out more  28Contents
1
Great universities constantly move forward. They anticipate, lead, adapt,  
and are society’s engines of innovation and change. Momentum is everything.
When St Andrews flourishes, it does so because 
it combines a commitment to excellence with an 
inherent dynamism which moulds us to the challenges 
and opportunities of the age.
As we publish our University’s refreshed Strategy, 
there is war in Europe, and a cost-of-living crisis is 
exacerbating inequalities. The long tail of Covid 
lingers, the climate emergency begs ever more urgent 
intervention, digital technology signals profound 
changes for the way we live and work, and major 
constitutional and cultural questions are being asked 
in this country and others.
Universities exist for the pursuit of truth and 
scholarship but in executing that privilege we must 
also serve.
Rarely have the communities on our doorstep, and 
further afield, been in greater need of the public good 
achieved by the emphatic application of world-class 
research and teaching. Rarely has it been more critical 
that universities maintain the courage to speak truth 
to power.
Crises bring discomfort but they also bring ambition 
and hunger for change. This is what drives our 
dynamism at St Andrews. By our scholarship, we 
should want to change the world, not expect others 
to change it for us.
This refreshed Strategy develops the World-leading, 
Diverse, and Entrepreneurial themes of our existing 
Strategy, and brings forward two others in an 
interconnected way for a fast-changing world – 
Sustainable and Digital. All are underpinned by our 
continuing commitment to social responsibility.The Strategy 2022-2027 sets out how we will change 
to invest in key areas of research and teaching and 
strategic appointments; leverage our international 
partnerships to widen influence; make smart use 
of digital technology to bring people together to 
share knowledge and ideas; foster an inclusive and 
compassionate culture and become more diverse; act 
as a role model for how people and ideas can move 
seamlessly between academia, industry, and the 
wider world; and model the solutions and behaviours 
humanity will need to tackle the climate and 
natural emergencies.
The Strategy has been refreshed in partnership and 
consultation with our staff and students, and will 
guide the decisions, policies, and investments the 
University requires to bring the intellectual power of 
our community to the great challenges of this age, and 
to maintain the distinctive excellence of our research 
and teaching.
Our remarkable students and staff are the lifeblood of 
St Andrews. It is their energy, vision, and momentum 
this Strategy aims to support, to free them to use 
knowledge, ideas, and potential for the benefit of all.
Professor Dame Sally Mapstone FRSE
Principal and Vice-ChancellorUniversity Strategy 2022-2027
3 2
The refreshed University Strategy 2022-2027 is the result of close consultation with  
our Schools, Professional Service Units, and students at all levels. It will guide the 
decisions, policies, and investments the University makes over the next five years. 
The University’s fundamental goal remains to attract 
and nurture the best staff and the most promising 
students from around the world, and provide an 
environment in which they can produce their best 
work for maximum societal benefit. 
The objectives of the University Strategy are grouped 
under five themes – World-leading , Diverse , 
Digital , Sustainable , and Entrepreneurial  – and 
are underpinned by our commitment to social 
responsibility.
Each theme is introduced by its Vision and the 
ways in which it has Connections to other themes. 
Objectives are listed, before detail is given on Delivery 
and how we will measure Progress. For each theme, 
we demonstrate how it relates to our twin focuses of 
Research, impact, and innovation and Education and 
the student experience. 
Our key objectives are summarised as follows:
•  We will be a world-leading university, advancing 
knowledge to address global challenges in socially 
responsible ways.
•  We will share and grow our research, education, 
and impact through connecting disciplines and 
collaboration with influential global partners.
•  We will make strategic appointments and create 
development opportunities for those who want 
to lead.
•  We will foster an inclusive and compassionate 
culture where all feel able to be their authentic 
selves.
•  We will build greater diversity across our student 
and staff communities and make real progress in 
addressing inequalities.•  We will extend our influence and reach through a 
new online education model and grow the reach 
and reputation of our research in a digital context.
•  We will embed digital, entrepreneurial, and 
sustainable opportunities and skills development 
in our curriculum and culture to prepare us all for 
the future.
•  We will ensure our governance and processes 
accelerate our transition to becoming a more 
sustainable institution.
•  We will decarbonise our energy systems as we 
develop our estate responsibly.
•  We will cultivate a culture of innovation and offer 
support, space, and funding to enable staff and 
students to progress their ideas.
•  We will be a role model for how people and ideas 
can move smoothly between universities, industry, 
and the wider world.
•  We will respect, nurture and promote our local 
community and environment. 
The University Strategy will steer us through changes 
and challenges to realise our objectives. We will 
connect our staff, students, and stakeholders, engage 
actively with governments, funders, and policy makers, 
and mobilise the support of our alumni, friends, and 
global community. We will develop action plans for 
each of the themes and revisit this framework regularly 
to measure progress. The existing Enabling Strategies 
for People, ICT, and Estate will be refreshed, and will 
provide the key operational frameworks for delivery.Executive summary
Collaboration
Consultation CreationProcess
Strategy
Outcomes
+ =Research, impact
innovationEducation and
student experience
ObjectivesAction plan
deliveryProgress :
Decisions
Policies
InvestmentWorld Leading Entrepreneurial Diverse Digital SustainableStaﬀ and 
StudentsUniversity Strategy 2022-2027
5 4
Social responsibility is a deep-woven thread which already 
runs through what we do at St Andrews. Our sense of 
responsibility towards our staff and students is visible across 
the themes of the Strategy. Our responsibility towards the 
environment has been extended under the new theme 
of Sustainable St Andrews. We retain a keen sense of 
responsibility towards our local community and recognise that 
our day-to-day activities and plans have a profound impact. 
The University will:
•  Act ethically, transparently, sustainably, and for the wider public benefit 
at all times.
•  Promote and defend the principles and importance of academic 
freedom, and freedom of speech.
•  Follow and contribute to best practice in the pursuit of greater equality 
and diversity.
•  Encourage our staff and students to prize a culture of tolerance, 
respect, kindness, and courtesy towards each other, and to our broader 
communities.
•  Involve our staff and students at the heart of our governance and 
decision making.
•  Make our research findings widely available for local, national, and 
global benefit.
•  Nurture a culture of civic engagement and volunteering amongst staff, 
students, and alumni.
•  Ensure all plans, work, and activities are ‘community aware’.
•  Work with businesses whose principles and commitments to the 
environment and sustainability align with our own.
•  Work with local businesses wherever possible, and consider the impacts 
of our growth and activities on the sustainability of businesses in 
St Andrews, Fife, and further afield.
•  Communicate promptly and transparently with our neighbours, 
stakeholders and partners, listen to ideas, and be willing to adapt where 
there is evidence that we can improve our proposals and practices.
•  Ensure that funds which the University holds in trust are invested in a 
socially responsible manner.Our commitment to 
social responsibility
More than 1000 people from across St Andrews gathered on West Sands in March 2022 
to form a powerful line in the sand, standing in solidarity with Ukraine.
7 6
World-leading
9 8
The University of St Andrews is ambitious for the quality 
and impact of our research and educational programmes. 
Research and teaching are at the heart of who we are 
and what we do, and the fact that we can connect them 
so strongly is distinctive and fundamental to our global 
reputation. In an environment where competition for 
resources and opportunities is ever fiercer, we must 
anticipate and be ready to act to stay ahead. Over the 
next strategic period we will accelerate investment and 
leverage international partnerships to enhance academic 
excellence and build those areas where we are, or have 
the potential to be, world-leading. We will strengthen a 
world-class environment that empowers our staff and 
students to lead in the development of knowledge and 
education, maximising opportunities for innovation in 
the service of future generations.
Connections
We couple the development of knowledge and research-
led education to all our strategic themes in order to 
catalyse progress. The climate emergency sets a tempo 
of urgency for sustainable change. A digital culture 
opens new avenues for research, education, sustainable 
approaches, and growth. A diverse international 
community of talented people and deep partnerships 
in an environment where they can develop is key to our 
priorities. An entrepreneurial mindset ensures that our 
research and educational programmes will have impact 
beyond the academy.Objectives 
•  We will be amongst the very best universities in the 
world. We will strategically strengthen and support our 
community in heightening our academic performance 
and impact. 
•  We will harness the power of interdisciplinarity – the 
connections we make between disciplines – to enable 
collaboration and address global challenges. This 
will include prioritised collaborations with key global 
partners to underpin our global identity.
•  We will attract excellence, build ambition, and 
recognise achievement amongst our staff and 
students. We will do so within an inclusive and 
scholarly environment that develops our students and 
staff to realise their potential and targets recruitment 
strategically. 
•  We will develop our estate to advance research 
and education as well as opportunities for 
interdisciplinarity. In central St Andrews we will deliver 
the ‘New College’ to further academic activity in the 
social sciences. This in turn will open up opportunities 
to support the arts and humanities. We will enable 
visionary innovation in our world-leading science 
disciplines based at our North Haugh by enhancing 
the physical environment.We will deliver this by: 
•  Making strategic appointments to take advantage 
of opportunities that accelerate progress with our 
objectives.
•  Investing sustainably in our estate as an enabling 
resource, underpinned by long-term, responsible 
master planning across our physical and digital 
requirements.
•  Creating development opportunities for people who 
want to lead, including collaborations across partners 
and disciplines.
•  Targeting support for emerging interdisciplinary 
activity in priority areas established by our community 
including: peace, conflict and security; cultural 
understanding; evolution, behaviour and environment; 
materials for the modern world; sustainability; 
engineering; and health, infectious disease and 
wellbeing.
•  Providing investment to deepen international 
partnerships strategically.
•  Working together to start up global institutes as 
flagships of international interdisciplinary excellence.
•  Linking the Eden Campus to our research and 
educational strengths across St Andrews.
•  Advancing our ambitious philanthropic campaign 
to drive our ambitions in St Andrews and further the 
reach of our community around the world.Progress will be indicated by:
•  The breadth of research in which we are judged to 
be world-leading.
•  Externally recognised impactful and interdisciplinary 
activity.
•  High quality and sustainable global strategic 
partnerships.
•  A student experience and outcomes of the 
highest quality.Research, impact, and innovation 
We will:
•  Invest in research which is world-leading 
within our disciplines and in interdisciplinary 
potential where it enhances our response to 
major challenges.
•  Build sustainable, funded collaborations with 
global strategic partners.
•  Enhance the impact and communication of 
our research outside academia.Education and the student experience
We will:
•  Deliver education of the highest quality 
across our physical and digital environments, 
building on our distinctive student 
experience to transform the potential of 
future generations.
•  Develop curricula and complementary 
opportunities integrating our 
research and pedagogical excellence 
in collaboration with students and 
external experts.
•  Ensure students are integral partners 
throughout the educational and student 
experience as we extend our community 
digitally.World-leading
Vision
We will be world-class across all 
our academic activities and support 
our world-leading potential. A defining 
aim is to address global challenges with 
demonstrable outcomes and in socially 
responsible ways.
11 10
Diverse
Pier Walk, St Andrews.
13 12
Diversity and inclusivity are essential to a thriving society 
and to our success as a forward-looking, world-class 
university. We will excel if we can attract and retain 
talented people with a broad range of backgrounds and 
if we value and mobilise the abilities of all of our staff and 
students. The University has been making a determined 
shift in its culture to ensure that everyone – our students, 
staff, and alumni – can thrive as part of the St Andrews 
community. Inclusivity is about valuing difference and 
enabling everyone to contribute. It requires always being 
willing to learn and to change and we will work this self-
reflection into our institutional identity through dialogue 
and openness.
Connections 
Diversity and inclusivity underpin delivery of our strategic 
themes. Being world-leading requires us to attract and 
retain the best talent, wherever it is found. Seizing the 
opportunities of the digital age requires us to ensure 
we develop skills and support on-going learning in 
step with technological advancements; and fostering 
entrepreneurialism and supporting sustainability require 
the creativity and effective problem solving that come 
from the ability to draw on a wide range of experiences, 
insights, and diversity of thinking.Objectives
•  We will ensure that our teaching, research, and 
operations are at the forefront of best practice in 
equality, inclusion, and diversity.
•  We will foster an inclusive culture where all feel able 
to be their authentic selves, and where prejudice and 
discrimination are robustly challenged.
•  We will make real progress in addressing the 
inequalities and disadvantages experienced by 
minoritised groups including, but not limited to, 
those related to race and ethnicity; socio-economic 
backgrounds; the experience of LGBTIQ+ people in our 
culture; disability; sex and gender. 
•  We will build greater diversity across our student 
community – strengthening the pathways that enable 
access and success – and in our workforce, particularly 
at senior levels, ensuring that the leadership of the 
University has an intrinsic understanding of the 
perspectives and potential of its community.
•  We will take steps to support staff and student physical 
and mental wellbeing and resilience and to foster a 
culture of care and compassion.We will deliver this by: 
•  Facilitating a community approach to culture change 
which recognises that everyone has a part to play in 
creating a diverse and inclusive environment.
•  Providing visible signals of inclusion through role 
models, networks, narratives, and the accessible 
configuration of the working and learning 
environment.
•  Demonstrating institutional commitment and 
leadership by seeking and maintaining a sector-
leading level of recognition through equality and 
diversity accreditation schemes.
•  Developing enhanced data and analytic capability 
and building trust and transparency in data collection 
and usage, to provide timely and accessible equality, 
diversity and inclusion information to inform policy 
and practice interventions.
•  Refreshing the People Enabling Strategy and 
developing appointment processes and career 
pathways that build diversity, especially at senior levels.
•  Supporting accessible and competency-based 
skills development to ensure that all staff have the 
opportunity to grow and fulfil their potential.
•  Enhancing the opportunities for our staff and students 
to engage in consultations, discussion, and open 
fora so that a full range of voices contribute to the 
development of the University and its future success.Progress will be indicated by:
•  The diversity of staff and of the student body.
•  Positive feelings of wellbeing, inclusion and belonging 
amongst our student and staff body, alongside 
external recognition within targeted frameworks (such 
as Athena Swan, the Race Equality Charter and the 
LGBT Charter).
•  Minimising participation gaps and attainment gaps.
•  Development of career pathways across both our 
academic and professional colleagues and a reduction 
in pay gaps amongst staff cohorts.Research, impact, and innovation 
We will:
•  Embed an inclusive research culture that 
recognises everyone’s contribution and 
values and incentivises collaboration.
•  Enhance structures and processes that 
support a diverse range of rewarding career 
paths and enable everyone to achieve their 
full potential.
•  Ensure a working environment that supports 
positive working practices and behaviours 
and ethical research methods.Education and the student experience
We will:
•  Celebrate belonging and diversity in an 
inclusive learning environment which 
supports all our students to achieve their 
fullest potential and be socially responsible 
citizens. 
•  Offer flexible and accessible academic 
programmes which support widening access, 
and encourage lifelong education.
•  Further advance inclusive teaching practice 
with particular attention to curriculum design 
and delivery in order to support students 
with disabilities.Diverse
Vision
We will make St Andrews a beacon of 
inclusivity, placing diversity and equality at 
the centre of everything we do and creating 
an environment in which all can flourish 
and realise their potential.
15 14
Digital
Our MSc in Digital Health – run by the Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies - teaches the theoretical 
underpinnings of digital health, and examines how digital data is integrated in clinical decision making.
17 16
Vision
We will create a digital identity, 
culture, and capacity that enables us 
to seize the opportunities which digital 
transformation can bring to our activities 
and ways of thinking, extending 
our ambition for our future as a 
leading global university. 
Digital approaches, platforms, and technologies are 
transforming our world profoundly. Digital St Andrews 
will accelerate a digital way of thinking and working in 
education, research, and how we operate, communicate, 
and connect. Digital St Andrews will provide valuable 
avenues for intellectual growth in education and 
research. Digital education will fundamentally broaden 
the access global learning audiences have to St Andrews 
and will provide opportunities to develop our diversity 
and make the University more resilient. Applying digital 
approaches will allow us to transform research agendas 
and accelerate progress on tackling global challenges. It 
will fundamentally broaden our reach and opportunities 
to engage learning and research communities with the 
knowledge and solutions we develop, and will enable 
capacity building globally.
Connections
Digital will open new opportunities for collaborations, 
both academic and entrepreneurial. Digital 
methods, expertise, platforms, and tools will catalyse 
interdisciplinary research. The fusing of our digital and 
physical environments will provide agile pathways that 
enhance attraction, engagement, and inclusion and offer 
more sustainable approaches. Digital information and 
expertise will underpin effective decision making and 
create capacity within our processes and systems while 
developing our people.Objectives  
•  We will create and improve capacity by prioritising 
digital opportunities which are transformational to our 
experiences and practices and extend the influence 
and reach of what we do across digital environments. 
•  We will invest in our people by providing 
opportunities for developing digital skills and digital 
innovations. 
•  We will extend the reach of our education and training 
and increase the diversity of our learners through an 
innovative digital learning portfolio which reflects the 
distinctive, individualised nature of the St Andrews 
experience.
•  We will enhance our research and impact by using 
digital capabilities to challenge and extend our 
disciplinary boundaries. These capabilities will require 
investment into our digital estate and enable our 
world-class researchers to break new ground.We will deliver this by: 
•  Supporting the development of digital solutions to 
drive evidence-based decision making, integrating and 
simplifying processes, and improving the experience 
of our staff and students.
•  Creating new and well supported online education 
models targeted at areas of demand in a way that 
represents value for learners, our Schools, and the 
University. 
•  Exploring entrepreneurial opportunities we identify 
through digital expansion.
•  Establishing specialist support tasked with 
engaging with our research community to deliver 
transformational change through digital technologies 
and perspectives.
•  Establishing an inclusive role-based approach to 
development and training in digital skills that enables 
our staff and students to contribute and innovate, 
escalating their digital learning and skills.
•  Developing our physical estate in alignment with 
our digital priorities and the refreshed ICT Enabling 
Strategy.Progress will be indicated by:
•  Additional students and learners on high-quality 
digital taught programmes, attracted from more 
diverse backgrounds than those from which we 
traditionally recruit.
•  A growing number of research outputs underpinned 
by or integrating digital research methods and means. 
•  Growth in digital skills across the staff and student 
community with positive impacts on careers and the 
ability to leverage digital capabilities that enable scale 
across our activities and operations.
•  Collaborations, public engagement, and impact 
resulting from digital events and outputs and through 
digital platforms.Research, impact, and innovation 
We will:
•  Encourage our academics to lead their 
disciplines in setting research questions and 
agendas that integrate digital research.
•  Accelerate research by embedding 
digital opportunities into resources and 
methodologies. 
•  Grow the reach and reputation of our 
research digitally to enhance our global 
impact, engagement, and identity.Education and the student experience
We will:
•  Develop digital education to reflect our 
values of excellence and quality. 
•  Embed digital opportunities and skills 
development in our curriculum and culture.
•  Create a digital student experience that 
captures the unique St Andrews experience 
in an authentic way.Digital
19 18
Sustainable
A team from the School of Physics and Astronomy carrying out glacier mapping in the Swiss Alps 
to understand how they will evolve in a warming world, developing the use of millimetre-wave 
radar to map and monitor glaciers at high resolution.
21 20
Vision
We will be leaders of sustainable change 
at St Andrews and in the world through 
what we research, our opportunities for 
learning, and how we operate.
Recognising the urgency of the global climate and 
natural emergencies, St Andrews has established 
three pathways to lead real and inclusive change; 
Sustainability Positive – our commitment to society that 
our research, education, impact, and entrepreneurship 
will improve the environment; Carbon Net Zero – our 
commitment to reduce carbon dioxide and greenhouse 
gas emissions dramatically across the full extent of 
the University’s activities, and manage unavoidable 
emissions responsibly; and Climate Adaptive – our 
approach to sustaining the University’s ability to operate 
in an irrevocably changing climate. We will show 
responsibility by reducing the University’s consumption 
of resources, limiting our greenhouse gas emissions 
and waste, and enhancing our resilience to become a 
Net Zero university by 2035. To effect positive change 
across society, and contribute to the United Nation’s 
Sustainable Development Goals, we will use the power 
of our research, amplified through education and our 
partnerships, to influence radical shifts in public policy 
and create opportunities for a rapid transition that are 
alive to the justice of outcomes.
Connections 
Sustainability sparks and requires innovation. To thrive 
within the finite resources of this planet we need to 
think in new ways about our priorities and how we 
achieve them. Connections to sustainability are essential 
for driving responsible change across the physical and 
digital university, as well as to enabling opportunities for growth. A future that is sustainable requires bold 
collaborations with partners from around the world, and 
the partnerships we nurture will be shaped by and will 
advance sustainability. 
Objectives 
•  To accelerate our transition we will incorporate 
sustainability into our vision for the University, our 
culture, and operations. 
•  We will support our whole community to make the 
informed personal and professional decisions required 
to contribute to a sustainable future. 
•  We will challenge and support all our academic 
disciplines to make a distinctive contribution to 
advancing discovery and learning in sustainability and 
the environment, as we champion interdisciplinary 
approaches in areas that will accelerate our transition.
•  We will develop living lab opportunities locally 
and especially at the Eden Campus which can be 
implemented globally to demonstrate the outcomes 
delivered by connecting research, education, and 
community. 
•  We will influence the policy environment to establish 
the shared frameworks needed to deliver progress that 
is just at a societal level.We will deliver this by:
•  Integrating sustainability in our governance 
and decision making at all levels, supported by 
accessible carbon footprint data as well as a life-cycle 
perspective.
•  Accelerating progress towards carbon Net Zero 2035 
and wider goals in the University’s Environmental 
Sustainability Strategy by implementing sustainable 
travel, procurement, energy management, and 
biodiversity plans. 
•  Investing in structures to support targeted research in 
the climate and nature emergencies and sustainability 
and enhance the impact of this research in education 
and society. 
•  Providing all of our students and staff with learning 
opportunities to enable them to make the informed 
decisions required to reduce their carbon footprint and 
contribute to a sustainable future. 
•  Ensuring that the frameworks which guide the 
development of our estate forward sustainability 
across our historical and ageing buildings as well as 
new investments, so that our physical environments 
serve future generations. We will eliminate the need 
for fossil fuels in our energy systems.Progress will be indicated by: 
•  Increasing opportunities for students and staff to 
develop skills and knowledge that enable them to take 
environmentally sustainable actions.
•  External engagement and externally recognised 
impactful research activity in the fields of climate 
change, energy research, and sustainability.
•  A reduction in carbon and greenhouse gas emissions 
directly and indirectly connected to our University 
operations and activities.
•  The management of more of our land for biodiversity 
and the implementation of a mechanism to monitor 
species and plants.Research, impact, and innovation
We will:
•  Develop a context for world-class research 
which acknowledges its environmental 
impacts and seeks to minimise them. 
•  Deliver more world-leading research that 
targets crucial themes in the climate and 
natural emergencies, and invest in key 
interdisciplinary perspectives that take on the 
complexity of acting on this challenge.
•  Make use of our research to drive policy 
change in support of a fair, sustainable future 
for all, locally, nationally, and globally.Education and the student experience
We will:
•  Furnish our students and staff with the 
knowledge and attributes that make their 
lives, as well as the communities around 
them, more sustainable. 
•  Prepare our students for careers in a world 
where sustainability issues will dominate by 
enriching the environmental sustainability 
content of the curriculum with learning from 
our research findings. 
•  Develop a teaching environment in 
St Andrews that minimises its environmental 
impact, recognising the value of our 
global reach.Sustainable
23 22
Entrepreneurial
On The Rocks – an initiative launched by St Andrews’ students in 2009 – is the largest student-run Arts festival 
in Scotland. Designed to showcase not only the best of drama and filmmaking in St Andrews, OTR provides a 
platform to demonstrate the creativity and talent of artists, photographers, dancers, musicians and comedians 
within the student community.
25 24
Vision
We will encourage a culture of innovation 
and create an inclusive entrepreneurial ecosystem 
to enhance our impact on society and diversify and 
grow our research funding streams. This ecosystem will 
be created through the interactions of students and staff, 
through enterprise and entrepreneurial education, 
and through strong engagement with business, 
government, the third sector, and other funders.
To be entrepreneurial in our culture is to see potential 
in existing and future activity and to translate that 
into enterprise for the benefit of wider society. 
Entrepreneurial St Andrews is rapidly gaining prominence 
as a mainstream activity in the University, enabling 
regeneration locally and transformation nationally. 
We will encourage our entrepreneurial ecosystem, 
securing increased funding for research, integrating 
entrepreneurial and enterprise education, and stepping 
up external engagement. 
Connections
Through our contributions to the entrepreneurial 
ecosystem and social enterprise, we will further our 
ambition as a university to effect the lasting changes 
society needs. The priority given to addressing the 
climate emergency will be emphasised through linking 
enterprise and entrepreneurial education directly to 
education for sustainable development in its broadest 
sense. That ambition requires ideas and innovation 
which are best generated in diverse groups and 
are strengthened through research and exchanges 
across disciplines. The Eden Campus will stimulate our 
entrepreneurial activities in St Andrews and beyond.Objectives
•  We will enable our staff and students, who express 
interest, to make the best of the ideas they generate 
by providing inclusive opportunities to engage 
with entrepreneurship through the core curriculum, 
co-curriculum, the Entrepreneurship Centre, and 
professional skills programmes. 
•  We will encourage activity to grow the pipeline of 
opportunities for the five commercial pathways of 
licensing, spin-out, start-up, contract research, and 
consulting engagements, and for the development of 
dynamic and sustainable social enterprises. 
•  We will provide support throughout the stages of 
the entrepreneurial journey in a seamless way, linking 
effectively to university operations. 
•  We will grow research volume by diversifying beyond 
traditional funding streams, including philanthropic 
opportunities.
•  We will establish a network which provides 
opportunities for friends and alumni actively to advise, 
mentor, and support entrepreneurs.We will deliver this by:
•  Developing our entrepreneurial identity 
underpinned by clear physical and virtual entrances 
to entrepreneurial activities at the University and 
supportive communications that effectively position 
the University’s capability and entrepreneurial culture 
globally. 
•  Nurturing and growing effective links with external 
stakeholders and supporters. 
•  Establishing networks which provide opportunities 
for friends and alumni actively to advise, mentor, and 
support entrepreneurs, and create opportunities for 
alumni and supporters to promote fledgling ventures 
in new markets. 
•  Establishing an integrated reporting system with clear 
accountability for performance goals, overseen by 
effective governance. 
•  Identifying and supporting the resource required to 
deliver our entrepreneurial education programmes.
•  Supporting staff to embed entrepreneurship in our 
curriculum through the encouragement of enterprise 
and entrepreneurship.Progress will be indicated by:
•  Increased sustainable funding generated from multiple 
entrepreneurial activities. 
•  The pipeline of opportunities for spinout, start-up, 
contract research and consultancy.
•  The establishment of a patent portfolio which is 
exploitable and exploited, and a rising number of 
invention disclosures. 
•  Opportunities for our staff and students to be 
innovative and engage in entrepreneurial activities and 
increase engagement with policy, consultations, and 
public dialogue. Research, impact, and innovation
We will:
•  Drive and support the development of an 
increasing volume of research from across all 
our disciplines that delivers the innovation 
that supports entrepreneurial success. 
•  Enable research that links strongly with 
external partners from industry, government, 
and the third sector to deliver research with 
societal impact. 
•  Become a role model for how staff and ideas 
can move smoothly between universities, 
industry, and the wider world.Education and the student experience
We will:
•  Support and recognise the design of curricula 
and forms of assessment to reward risk-
taking, problem-solving, and creativity, and 
ensure students are adept at identifying 
opportunities for enterprise and provide the 
tools to take these forward successfully. 
•  Promote the value of student and staff 
engagement with business, charity, and social 
enterprise initiatives. 
•  Offer training, dedicated space, and funding 
to enable students and staff to progress 
entrepreneurial ideas.Entrepreneurial
27 26
www.st-andrews.ac.uk
 @uniofsta    @uniofstandrewsScan to view:  
Web version of the strategy Scan to view:  
Research pagesScan to view:  
News pages
Drag Walk, St Andrews.
29 28
Designed by Print & Design, University of St Andrews, October 2022.  
The University of St Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland, No: SC013532.
