Strategic  
Plan
2016–2021
Design:  Whitespace
Produced by:  Communications, Marketing  
  and Public Engagement,  
  University of Stirling
Photography:  Elaine Livingstone  
  White House Studios 
University of Stirling 
FK9 4LA Scotland, UKwww.stir.ac.ukT: 01786 473171
Disclaimer Liability: The University of Stirling reserves the right without 
notice to vary the content of information described in this publication and to modify as seems appropriate. The University is a registered trademark. All information correct at time of going to print. © University of Stirling (2016). All rights reserved. The University of Stirling is a recognised  
Scottish Charity with number SC011159.
UZ0001 Stirling Document cover.indd   1 07/04/2016   12:45
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      3University vision,  
values and purpose
The University of Stirling is an international university,  
with a global reputation for high-quality teaching and 
research. Everything we do makes a positive difference  
to people's lives. We are an agent for change, connecting people, innovating and transforming the lives of our  
students, staff and the global communities we serve.
Stirling is numbered among the top 50  
new universities in the world; a reputation 
that has been gained through the quality of our research, the impact it has had on society, and the skills and competencies  
of our graduates.
Our distinctiveness comes from our 
academics collaborating across disciplines  
to generate different perspectives to  
address key world issues. Graduates of  
the University are well equipped to play  
a leading role in society due to knowledge, initiative and resilience developed as part  
of their educational experience, and  
from the wider cultural and sporting  
opportunities available.Stirling is a place where everyone is  
treated with respect and where ability – not background – is valued. We are open with one another and support people with specific needs; we acknowledge difference, and respect the right of students and staff to hold differing views. 
We don’t settle for second best. We strive 
for excellence in all we do, and work actively to support students and staff to perform at the very highest level. By doing so, our teaching and research makes a real and demonstrable impact on the economy, environment and society in Scotland  
and beyond.
“ S tirling is a place where 
ability – not background – 
is valued.”
UZ0001 Stirling Document cover.indd   2 07/04/2016   12:45
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      5The values that guide us:
Our values inform everything we do  
and underpin our actions. 
They are the foundation upon which  
we develop and grow as an institution:
 Excellence  
Leading the way globally in our areas of 
research expertise and through the delivery of an outstanding learning experience.
 Openness 
Being open in all we do, communicating  
the work and worth of the University to  
the wider world, and engaging people in  
the delivery of our vision.
 Ambition
Growing the University in innovative ways, embedding sustainability, and making it  
a role model for the sector.  
       Our purpose:
Our contribution and approach are  
defined by: 
Developing  people and helping society 
through the pursuit and understanding of 
knowledge. We create the conditions for innovative, interdisciplinary research, and communicate what we have learned to the wider world in a clear and useful manner.
 
Transforming  the lives of our students 
and staff by giving them opportunities to 
reach their full potential intellectually and emotionally; by making them resilient and giving them the skills they need for the modern world; and by instilling in them  
a sense of responsibility to promote  
public good.
 
Creating  global citizens, working in 
partnership with governments, business  
and industry, the public and third sectors, 
and colleagues in other institutions, to identify and meet the changing needs  
of society.Our vision is to be recognised across the world  
as a University that addresses the needs of society  
through innovative interdisciplinary research;  
learning and teaching of the highest quality;  
and by sharing our knowledge with the world.
Professor Gerry McCormac
Principal and Vice-ChancellorAt Stirling we take pride in providing 
education with a purpose and conducting research that makes a difference to society. Our aim is to unlock the full potential of our students and staff, so that they can use their knowledge and skills to shape the world  
in a positive way. Our ambitions for the  
future, set out in this Strategic Plan, can  
be achieved through our collective will, passion and commitment.“ H aving the right people, with the right 
skills and attitude, is central to achieving 
our ambitions over the next five years.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      5 4
Our vision for  
the University 

Strategic Plan 2016–2021      7The foundations of  
“education with a purpose”
The University of Stirling’s story starts with a visionary who  
recognised that society was being transformed and it needed  
men and women skilled in navigating change.
Lord Robbins, our first Chancellor, was an 
economist who changed the face of higher education. He understood the importance  
of a skilled workforce to the future wealth and well-being of society. The Robbins Report widened access to higher education, and for almost 50 years the University of Stirling has been delivering the vision he  
first articulated.
Robbins valued learning. For him it was all 
about ‘education with a purpose’. And that phrase sums up what happens here. Our people – staff, students and graduates – take the skills and knowledge learned here to shape our society, our economy, and the environment. Our primary goal is preparing people to go out into this fast-moving world and transform it for the better.                  The University is first and foremost a community of scholars. We exist to create new knowledge, deepen our understanding of it, and to share it at home and abroad. We have a global impact through our research, our international partnerships,  
and a growing international community  
of alumni providing leadership in countries, businesses and communities on every continent. 
Our aim is to educate the whole person. 
Our students are not just taught, they are active participants in the learning process. Facts and information are readily accessible in a world increasingly dependent on technology. But the skills needed to understand, innovate and to create new knowledge have to be learned. And that is best done in a place that cherishes research-active academics with international reputations and connections.
In his report, Robbins was explicit about the 
importance of learning and teaching within an environment where research is prized. The University of Stirling is such a place, and our graduates understand the importance  
of innovation, creativity and enterprise. 
Doing things differently
The University of Stirling has always had a reputation for doing things differently. Imbued with the radicalism that defined the 1960s, it has never accepted the status quo or been attracted to conformity. It embraces difference and it values independent minds. We know that a ‘one-size-fits-all’ education is not an education fit for purpose in  
today’s world.
At the University we help individuals identify 
and use their natural abilities; we create the space for them to discover their passions, and provide opportunities for them to fulfil their aspirations. We were among the first  
to embrace modular degrees, allowing students to choose the building blocks  
of their courses. 
We believe everyone with ability should have 
the opportunity to access higher education, and we have been pioneers in providing different entry routes to our courses. Many of our students are the first in their families to go to university and many come through non-traditional routes – for example through our partnership with Forth Valley College.  
As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence, our students have access  
to some of the country’s finest coaches  
and mentors. The link between physical well-being and academic achievement is  
well known. The sporting opportunities  
we provide reinforce our commitment  
to health and well-being: developing leadership and team skills, mental and physical agility, and building resilience.
Alongside sport, the University has valued 
art, heritage and culture from its inception. Visitors to the campus are exposed to the best in Scottish and international art –  
and they have access to the best in cinema and the dramatic arts in the Macrobert  
Arts Centre.  A clear vision
By delivering on our commitment to transform the lives of our students, and develop our staff, we fulfil a wider purpose.We make a direct contribution to the global communities we serve; we add to the economic and cultural capital of Scotland; and we make a difference to the lives of people around the world who benefit from our research and the skills of our graduates.
We have a clear vision. This Strategic Plan 
will guide our decision-making over the next five years – a period that includes our landmark 50th anniversary. It was developed as the result of one of the widest consultations in the University’s history and was shaped by the people who will deliver it. Our strategy reflects our sense of common purpose to lead the sector, and to deliver real benefits for people.
What we do, we do with a purpose –  
and that purpose is to give people the  
skills they need to shape the future and 
make a positive impact on the world.
6
“ O ur primary goal  
is to prepare people 
for this fast-moving world and transform  
it for the better.”Arron Gunn
BSc (Hons) Sport and  
Exercise Science
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      9 
8Connect 
Building deep and mutually-beneficial 
partnerships locally, nationally and internationally to help us deliver real  
benefits for society, the economy and  
our students and staff.Innovate  
Finding new ways of thinking and doing things that place us at the cutting edge; identifying opportunities that benefit students, staff and stakeholders; growing income through research, knowledge exchange and commercialisation; and ensuring our curriculum meets the  
needs of citizens in the 21st century.Transform
Inspiring our staff and students and exposing them to new ideas, experiences and opportunities; giving them the  
capacity to change society for the better; improving people’s quality of life and stimulating growth.Objectives
We are ambitious. During the development of this strategy, 
our staff, students and stakeholders were clear that we  
must set our aims high. This is the best way of securing  
our achievements and the surest way to build on them. 
We live in a world that is highly competitive 
and where change is a constant. The needs of individuals and society do not stand still, and we must be responsive to those changing needs.
To be a globally-connected university,  
we must continue to build and strengthen  
further our international links by: connecting 
with partner universities, organisations  
and people around the world; producing research with global relevance and impact;  
and graduating students as global citizens, who will play a leadership role in their communities, wherever they live.  
To achieve these goals we will: 
Ensure 
internationalisation is at the heart of everything we do We have identified a set of overarching  
institutional objectives that will help  
us focus on the practical steps needed  
to achieve our goals and to establish  
the University in the global top 200: 
Be one of the top 25 universities in the UK
Increase our income  
by £50 millionEnhance our research 
profile by 100 percent
Our objectives are underpinned by  
a more detailed set of operational  
strategies and performance measures 
that are monitored regularly, individually, collectively and by University Court.In delivering our 25-50-100 objectives, we will focus on four key areas: Learning, teaching and the student experience; Research with impact; Partnerships and public engagement; and Effectiveness and sustainability. Our objectives will be delivered using key institutional enablers which describe the way we do things at Stirling: our connectivity; our commitment to innovation; and our capacity to transform people’s lives.
25-50-100
Be one of the top 25 
universities in the UK
Increase student satisfaction and achieve 
a top-quartile position as measured by the NSS, PTES and PRES
 Ensure that student retention rates are 
in the upper-quartile of UK institutions
 Improve undergraduate entry tariffs to 
achieve a top-quartile position among benchmark institutions
 Increase the proportion of leavers 
entering graduate-level jobs to 85%
 Ensure the student:staff ratio is among 
the top-quartile of UK institutionsIncrease our income 
by £50 million
Increase total income by £50 million 
from a baseline in 2014/15
 Double the value of Research Grant 
and Contract (RGC) income
 Increase international student numbers 
by 65% through enhanced online, distance and trans-national education
 Grow our commercial activity and increase 
the value of other income by 50%Enhance 
internationalisation
Ensure an international outlook is 
at the heart of everything we do
Enhance our research 
profi  le by 100 percent
Improve our academic reputation and
increase our ranking in global surveysby 100 places
 Secure a place among the world’s top 
200 universities for research citations per academic member of staff
 Improve our research environment by 
growing the number of PhD students and externally-funded researchers by 30%
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       11 10Over the lifetime of this 
Strategic Plan we will:
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      13
Learning, teaching and  
the student experience
The University draws its students from around the  
world. Many of our undergraduates are school-leavers,  
but other students come to us through non-traditional  
routes, adopting different modes of study – part time,  
blended learning and online. 
Over the past five decades, we have  
built a reputation for the quality of our 
learning and teaching, our supportive  
and encouraging ethos, and the quality  
of our graduates. 
We give our graduates the best possible 
start in life by focusing on learning and teaching, embracing the latest advances in pedagogy, and building strong partnerships with future employers. The setting of our Stirling campus enhances the quality of life of our scholarly community, and is the base from which we connect with the world. As technology changes, the way our students and staff interact with the sources of knowledge, and how they communicate it, changes too. We will maximise the potential of the digital age – recognising  
its transformative power – but in a way that preserves our commitment to core academic skills that expand the minds of our students and deepen their learning.
Learning requires hard work and commitment 
from students and staff alike. But we know from experience that creating the right conditions to optimise learning is also  
vitally important.   
Maria Cid Castilla
Internationalisation Manager  
Development and External AffairsIn my role as Internationalisation Manager 
I am responsible for the development and management of short-term study programmes for incoming international students. I am passionate about offering our students the best possible experience. Working across the University, I am developing initiatives that enhance student experience from pre-arrival to post-study. I particularly like being part of such a diverse and vibrant academic community and being able to work with a lovely blend of cultures, languages and nationalities. I believe Stirling  
is a unique place to study and it is rewarding to know that my team is playing a part both  
in helping international students to achieve their full potential and in making our campus a rich, global learning, teaching  
and living environment.
“ I n helping our mix of 
international students to 
achieve their full potential,  
I am contributing to making our campus a rich, global learning and teaching environment.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       13 12
“ W e help our students  
identify and develop their 
passions, and thereby reach their full potential.”Karen Lai Hiu Man (Hong Kong)
BSc (Hons) Environmental Science
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      15I work closely with students, staff and 
employers to build Stirling’s capacity and reputation for helping our students achieve  
lifelong career management skills and success. This means supporting students to gain the right employability skills, developing these and engaging with those employers who interest and inspire them.  
I want to empower our students to make the most of their time at university – to develop confidence in their abilities and aspirations. Influencing positive change in students’ lives and seeing them take meaningful strides in their career development is what I love about my job.Pamela Crawford
Joint Head of Careers and EmployabilityStudent, Academic and Corporate Services
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       15 14Connect 
•  W orking with business, the public and  
the third sectors to identify and embed 
skills that will enhance the employability  
of our students, and give them the tools they will need to build successful careers.
•
  U
sing our global employer, alumni and 
university networks to offer international experiences to all our students, and to  
enhance international diversity on campus.
•
  C
reating an inclusive environment,  
actively promoting equality and enriching our students’ lives by encouraging  
them to experience and understand  
the different cultures, beliefs and traditions of our student body.
•
  D
eveloping shared spaces to enhance  
the sense of community, encourage  
group learning, and support people  
from across academic disciplines to  
come together.  
   Innovate
•  D elivering courses informed by the  
latest global research so students  
gain full benefit from studying at an international, research-led university.
•
  U
sing technology creatively to enhance 
pedagogy, and deepen and broaden the learning experience for all our students.
•
  C
reating learning spaces that exploit  
the potential of new technologies,  
and which support the different ways people learn and interact.
•
  V
aluing learning, and developing 
independent critical and reflective thinking through innovative learning  
and teaching.
•
  I
dentifying opportunities to improve  
what we do by actively embracing the digital age and deploying innovative assessment processes.  
 
 Transform
•  H elping students identify and develop 
their intellectual, sporting and cultural passions, encouraging well-being and resilience and supporting students  
to reach their full potential.
•
  P
roviding life-changing opportunities –  
in Stirling and through international exchanges – that give our students new perspectives and broaden their horizons.
•
  C
reating a personal relationship  
between our students and the University, promoting flexible study that adapts  
to our students’ individual needs.
•
  A
ttracting the brightest minds – regardless 
of background – to join our learning community and contribute to its vitality.
•
  P
roducing graduates who are active global 
citizens by making them socially, culturally and environmentally aware.  
 To achieve our learning and  
teaching objectives we will: 
Dr Markus Kittler
Programme Director  
University of Stirling Management School
As Programme Director, I am determined  
to create a positive, transformative learning 
experience for students. By working in collaboration with colleagues, employers  
and with students, we shape programmes which help our learners to become critical  
and creative individuals. Students play  
an important role in that development –  their feedback is crucial in shaping our programme delivery. I feel extremely humbled that my work is recognised by students and their nominations have led  
me to winning a number of Recognising Achievement in Teaching Excellence  
(RATE) Awards.
Outcomes
We will measure success with the  
following outcomes and targets:  
•
  S
ecuring student satisfaction scores  
in the National Student Survey (NSS), Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) and Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) that place  
us in the top-quartile of UK universities.
•
  I
ncreasing taught postgraduate  
student numbers by 20 percent  
from the 2014-15 baseline.•   I ncreasing overseas student numbers  
by 65 percent from the 2014-15 baseline, ensuring diversity by drawing students from a broad range of countries at  
all levels of study.
•
  B
uilding on our strong record for 
widening access, contributing  
to national priorities, and ensuring  
a high level of degree completion  
for all students.  
 •   E xpanding opportunities for students  
to get work-related experience and  
setting a target of 85 percent for graduates entering graduate-level employment or further study.
•
  W
orking with external partners  
to increase undergraduate places  
for all nationalities, including  
Scottish students.  “ I  work in close collaboration  
with students and colleagues  
to develop and shape our 
academic programmes.”
“ I
t’s great to see our students develop 
the confidence, skills and experience  
to succeed in the graduate market.”
Simron Kandola
BA (Hons) Human Resource  
Management and LawPia FäthMSc International Human  
Resource ManagementThomas Tierney
BA (Hons) Business Studies
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      17
My team conducts research that helps  
shape health policies to reduce the  
harm from alcohol and tobacco. We have 
generated evidence to inform key policies such as tobacco plain packaging and alcohol minimum unit pricing. Smoking and harmful use of alcohol are international challenges so we work with researchers, professionals and policy makers across the world. Collectively we are trying to find workable, innovative solutions to prevent health problems  
before they start.Research  
with impact
We strongly believe that the most effective universities are 
those that embrace a strong research ethos benchmarked against international standards. 
There is a direct connection between 
research and excellence in learning and teaching. The best educators are more  
often men and women who are working  
at the frontiers of knowledge in their  
subject areas.  
 Ground-breaking research is one of the  
ways we make an impact on society at  
home and abroad. It is central to our mission. It allows us to shape the future, impacting on people’s health, education and well-being; allowing people to better understand and engage with the world around them; and providing opportunities  
to create wealth and stimulate growth.  Academically, it gives us global reputational reach and connectivity, improves our ability to attract the highest-quality staff, and  
helps us inspire our students.
This in turn has a direct impact on our  
ability to achieve income growth targets 
from research, knowledge exchange and student recruitment activities. 
“ W e are carrying out  
ground-breaking research  
that has a positive impact  
on communities worldwide.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       17 16Professor Linda Bauld  
Dean of Research Impact and Director of the Institute for Social Marketing
Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport
“ P reventing chronic disease is one of the 
main challenges of our age. I’m fortunate 
to lead a team conducting research that makes a positive difference to the health and well-being of our society.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      19Strategic Plan 2016–2021       19 18
“ M y work combines the 
strength of academic 
and industry expertise. Together we are addressing sustainability problems  
on a global scale.”
Professor Herve Migaud  
Director of Research, Institute of Aquaculture 
Faculty of Natural Sciences
My work connects the University with 
leading organisations in the aquaculture sector to develop innovative projects that drive economic growth. I lead several  
high-profile research projects totalling  
£6.6 million. By collaborating with industry on a large scale we can find innovative  
and practical solutions to problems which affect worldwide sustainability and food supply problems, while boosting our research profile. Working collectively  
with the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre, Marine Harvest Scotland, Scottish Sea Farms and Biomar, we are helping  
to solve bottlenecks which are limiting  
salmon productivity.
To achieve our research 
objectives we will: 
Outcomes
We will measure success with the  
following outcomes and targets:  
•
   S
ecuring a place in the global top  
200 for our research and deepening  
our relationships with international 
universities with strong research reputations.
•
  I
ncreasing the number of research-  
active students, maintaining our recognised Doctoral Training  
Centres, and creating a critical  
mass of researchers.  •
   I ncreasing our external grant income  
by 100 percent during the lifetime of  
this strategy, and increasing externally-funded research-only staff numbers  
by 30 percent.
•
  G
rowing the number of teaching and 
research staff towards a target of 500 –  
in line with growth in student numbers.
•
  A
chieving an annual year-on-year increase 
in income from our enterprise activities.  Connect
•  C ollaborating with business and industry, 
other universities and the public sector to ensure our research directly benefits society, nationally and internationally.
•
  E
xtending and strengthening our research 
partnerships and collaborations, nationally and internationally.
•
  E
nsuring our research contributes to 
economic, social and cultural growth  
and gains the recognition it merits.
•
   T
ransferring knowledge by maintaining  
a culture of openness and accessibility.  
       Innovate
•  U tilising our established interdisciplinary 
focus to address real-world problems  
and find creative solutions.
•
  P
romoting the impact of our research  
on society and the economy.
•
  S
upporting the commercialisation of 
research and building our reputation  
for applied research.
•
  U
sing our research profile to support 
curriculum development, ensuring our learning and teaching is informed by current and new knowledge.  
       Transform
•  B uilding on the success of REF2014  
and expanding our current levels of research activity.
•
  D
eveloping and enhancing research 
leadership across all academic areas by creating an ethos that encourages personal development, interdisciplinary work, and mentoring.
•
  N
urturing a culture of success by 
developing our research talent and providing an environment in which  
early career researchers thrive.
•
  I
nstilling in our undergraduates an 
understanding of the importance of research, and creating opportunities  
for those who have the potential  
to develop research careers.  
   
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      21
Professor David Bell  
Professor of Economics  
University of Stirling Management School 
Helping shape government policy  
and position the University as a credible 
authority in the UK is work that I am very proud to do. I am working collaboratively with colleagues across faculties on a study into our elderly population, which will inform future improvements to well-being and improve our understanding of the implications of an ageing population.  
This shows the transformative change  
we can effect together – it’s what brings me to Stirling every day.Professor  Alison Bowes
D
ean 
Faculty of Social Sciences
My team’s research aims are to improve experiences of living longer, to ensure that older people’s contribution to our society is valued and that the benefits of longevity for our society are fully realised. Improving care and support in older age is one element of this, along with understanding how to share the benefits of healthy and active ageing. Our interdisciplinary approach brings together complementary skills and knowledge – this enables us to conduct research which really makes a difference to life for individuals, families and communities. We’re all ageing all the time: this is research that matters for everyone.
20
“ T he interdisciplinary work we are doing  
is shaping government policy and helping  
Scotland’s ageing population.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      23
Dr John Rogers
Director of Research and Enterprise
By working in partnership with businesses 
and other institutions to develop innovative courses in response to current and future demands of employers, we are better equipping our graduates with the skills  
they need in the global workplace. Through our strong links with Forth Valley College and connections to employers, we have established integrated degree courses  
which are producing skilled graduates  
in the digital, heritage, creative and life  
science sectors. Our Innovation Park is a major conduit for business and enterprise. Developing distinctive initiatives and opportunities like these requires us to use innovation and creativity every day – and is great fun!“ F inding new ways to connect with 
businesses and colleges ensures we 
produce skilled graduates who are ready for the future world of work.”Partnerships and  
public engagement
From their beginnings, universities have been important 
drivers of change. Academics and staff in professional  
support services understand instinctively the importance  
of partnerships. They work closely with governments,  
business and industry; they have global connections,  
and are entrepreneurial and committed to making  
the world a better place.
Universities provide a meeting place for 
business and industry, governments, the public sector, and people from across civic society. They are places where free thinking and free expression is cherished, and  
where difficult issues can be discussed  
in a constructive way.  
In an increasingly inter-connected world, our partnerships and public engagement activities help us make a real impact on society, making the most of our intellectual, cultural, and sporting assets. As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence we have a particular responsibility to provide leadership in this area – nurturing elite athletes who can compete at an international level; maximising participation in sport; and promoting well-being –  
with all the benefits that brings to people – physically, intellectually and emotionally.
One of the clear ambitions of this strategy 
is developing long-term intellectual capital, and economic and environmental sustainability. That can best be achieved  
by securing the active support for our vision from government, major funders, business and industry, and broader civic society. 
The better we understand the needs of  
our partners and the more they value our 
work, the easier it will be to deliver our overall strategy.  
 
“ O ur partnerships and public 
engagement activities help us  
make a real impact on society.” 
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      23 22
Dr Ken Thomson (Left) 
Principal, Forth Valley College
Strategi c Plan 2016–2021      25
Dr Na omi Brooks
Lectu rer in  Hea lth a nd E xercise Sciences
Facu lty of Health Sciences  and Sp ort I am passionat e about improvin g the  
healt h of th e community . My work with  
local providers helps me loo k at physical 
activity an d exercise level s in the community 
and enables m e to evaluat e programmes 
already in place . Working with local  
schools on the Daily Mil e projec t has  
been  a partic ularly  fulﬁlling and  rewarding 
experi ence. There are many  reported 
anecdotal bene ﬁts of the Daily Mile ; we  
are now invest ig
ating scientiﬁcally, whether 
something as si mple as a daily walk or  
run can make a differ ence to the physical 
well-being and concentration levels  
of children in th e classroom.“ My researc h examines 
whet her something as 
simple a s a dail y walk  
in the playground 
make s an impac t on 
children’ s physica l and 
menta l well-being.”
To achiev e our  partnership s and public 
engag ement objective s we will:
 
Connect
•  Positioning the University  of Stir ling 
as a model of a publicly-engaged 
university , building an d susta ining strong 
relationships wit h all ou r stakeholders.
•  Providing though t leadership and creating 
a public space wher e major issues  of 
the day can be explored ; championing 
knowledge exchange , and encouraging 
volunteering.
•  Buildin g global partnerships with 
instit utions, businesse s and industry for 
mutual bene ﬁt that creat e opportunities 
for students , staff and th e economy.
•  Communicatin g the impac t of our 
research  by using the University's 
environmental, cultural and sporting 
assets t o connec t with key audi ences.
•  Openin g the campu s to member s of 
our wider community, allowing the m to 
develo p their skills throug h exposure to  
art, sculpture, theatre, cinema , public 
lectures and sport. Innovate
•  Making bes t use o f our natural assets 
and th e built environment , champio ning 
environmental sustainab ility throug h the 
way w e work , the research w e conduct 
and ou r public engagemen t activity.
•  Developing  a cultu re of sporting 
innovation tha t transforms participation, 
well-being and th e health  of staff, 
students and th e wide r community, 
makin g them more res ilient to the 
challenge s of life.
•  Findin g new ways  of communicating our 
work to stakeholders and th e wider public 
with the aim of 
encouraging  a lear ning  
ethos in society and se curing active 
support fo r our work. 
 
 
 
 
 Transform
•  Actively promoting equality an d diversity, 
and eliminating discrimination  by  
creating an environmen t that reﬂects  
our commitmen t to social justice and 
ensures transf ormational e xperiences  
are acces sible to all. 
•  Using our expertise to play a leading 
role in the developmen t of public sector 
and industry agenda s at a national and 
international level.
•  Pi
oneering environmental sustainab ility 
through our busines s practices and 
behaviours ; and cha mpio ning sustainable  
practices and livin g through ou r research.
•  Fostering mutually-bene ﬁcial partnerships 
with or ganisations tha t help us a mplify 
the impact of our researc h and knowledge 
exchange , and enable us to use it fo r the 
public good.
•  Leading global initiatives tha t prom ote 
sport , health and well-being  by deploying 
our r
esearch reputation in sport, health 
sciences an d education, and  by embracing 
our role as Scotland’s University for 
Sporting Excellence.
Outcomes
We will measu re success with the  
following outcomes and targets: 
•  Developing up to ﬁve key multi-
dimensiona l and long-term overseas 
partnership s with leading international 
instit utions. 
•  Growin g the number and quality  
of partnerships th e University has  
with industry, policy makers and  
other hig
her educatio n institutions  
in the UK and internationally.•  Ensuring we mee t our ambitions to  
share knowledge  by improving our 
performanc e in national knowledge 
exchang e metrics.
•  Fully demonstrating th e impac t of  
the Universit y on society through 
an effectiv e programme  of public 
engagemen t – creating multiple 
opportunities fo r our stakeholders  
and the wide r public to engage with  
the University.•  Enhancing ou r external pro ﬁle and 
position  by actively promoting the  
work of 
the University and its people,  
and celebrating success.
•  Being seen  by the secto r and others  
as a role m odel for ho w large and 
comple x organisation s should be run.
•  Actively promoting  a work and study 
environmen t that enhance s the health  
and well-being  of staf f and students,  
and enable s them to achiev e their  
full p otential.
24We work to make knowledg e visible.  
My fo cu
s as curato r of the Ar t Collection  
is making ar t and cultu re a par t of everyday 
life for staff , students and visitors ; enabling 
exchanges between art , research and 
teachin g. I do this through a n active 
programme  of events tha t improves access 
and inspires peopl e to engag e with art.  
They tell m e that it enriches t heir l ives. I have tw o passions in my wo rking  life – 
public engagement and interdisciplinary 
research and teac hing. As th e Directo r o f 
the Cent re for Environment , History and 
Policy (CEHP) , I have the opportunity to do 
both. Working collaboratively with several 
local or ganisations , I am strengthe ning links 
with th e University and increasing public 
participation in art projects. “ A creative env iron ment  
stimulat es creativ e thinking  
and can inspire a whole 
community.”
Jane C ameron 
Curato r of the Unive rsity Art Colle ction
Deve lopme nt an d Exter nal Affa irs
Dr Catherine Mills
Director of the Centre for Environment, 
Heritage and PolicyFacu lty of Arts and  Human ities
Pupils fro m St Ni nians  
Primary  School , Stirling
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      27
As a global university, we have an important role to play  
in promoting sustainability, both locally and internationally, 
and a duty to nurture our resources – human and physical.
Sustainability is embedded in everything we 
do, whether that is teaching and research  
or the services we offer students and staff.
We are continually reducing our carbon 
footprint and are helping to support the government's carbon emission targets  
for Scotland.
By delivering world-class research we are 
sought out by governments, businesses and other universities wanting to be associated with the best. Our reputation for teaching excellence attracts high-quality staff and students and expands our international  reach. By embracing the highest levels of professionalism in how we manage the University, we strive to maximise  
our resources. 
As a major employer, we contribute 
significantly to the regional economy and take this responsibility seriously – investing in our staff and supporting them to achieve their ambitions. Stirling has always invested in professional and personal development, particularly in championing the role of women leaders in higher education through activities such as the Athena SWAN, Aurora and Stepping Stones initiatives.Building a strong leadership ethos –  
in academic and professional services –  
is important to us; but just as important is creating a sense of common purpose. Whether in academia, professional services or support roles, we are all part of the same team, working to achieve the same ends. Strong teams ensure consistency of delivery and reduce the risks of single points of failure – both critical for delivering  
a high quality service for our students,  
staff and stakeholders.
 
W
e recognise the need to secure  
the University’s future by maximising sustainable income streams and managing our expenditure. We prize good governance and are a well-run and effective institution, meeting the needs of our students, staff  
and society.
We take pride in our professionalism and 
are constantly reviewing and renewing our business practices to deliver more innovative services to meet the needs of our students, staff and stakeholders. We replaced the Wi-Fi system on campus, future-proofing it insofar as is possible in the fast moving world of IT. 
Increasing constraints on resources requires 
us to be more efficient and effective than ever before. We recognise that the best way of securing our future is by being effective, agile and resilient; by identifying and seizing opportunities; and by focusing on what we do best and delivering.
 Effectiveness  
and sustainability
“ W e embrace innovation by investing 
in new technologies to deliver more 
effective resources to our staff  
and students.”We are committed to being a responsible 
and sustainable organisation. The introduction of our Combined Heat and Power Plant (CHP) has reduced the University’s carbon footprint by around 2,800 tonnes per year, and generated  
an annual reduction in utility costs of  
over £500,000. This innovative project  
was one of only three major carbon-reduction schemes funded by the  
Scottish Funding Council. “ O ur CHP facility is reducing the  
University’s annual carbon emissions  
by around 2,800 tonnes – that’s enough  
CO 2 to fill 3,000 hot air balloons!”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       27 26
Lewis Matthews
Senior Maintenance ManagerEstates and Campus Services
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      29
“ P roviding a high-quality student  
experience is at the heart of what we do –  
by diversifying and growing our income 
streams, we can achieve even more.”
28Liam Spillane  
Director of Commercial ServicesI am focussed on positioning Stirling as  
a venue of choice for students, businesses 
and visitors. Working in partnership with organisations, such as VisitScotland, we bring global conferences to our campus and help to place Stirling on the business map. My team works incredibly hard to showcase all Stirling Venues facilities, including our hotel, conference facilities and student accommodation. When we meet our targets, we’re helping to generate additional income for reinvestment in high-quality facilities and services for our students –  
and that’s a big motivation for my team.  
Connect
•  D elivering effective and efficient 
professional services that are valued, consistently high quality, and financially sustainable.
•
  I
mplementing our shared vision through 
continued engagement with our staff, students and external partners. We will measure progress by setting milestones, making adjustments where necessary,  
and celebrating success. 
•
  C
onsulting stakeholders by actively 
listening to what they have to say  
and responding appropriately through transparent decision-making.
•
  D
emonstrating our accountability through 
effective governance structures that reflect the diversity of those we serve.  
 
    Innovate
•  Delivering oper ational best practice, 
ensuring it supports innovative learning 
and teaching; creative and sector-leading research activity; and effective partnerships and public engagement. 
•
  G
enerating new income streams  
to invest in institutional priorities, increasing the University’s self-reliance.
•
  B
eing creative in how we manage  
our assets to maximise their use  
and income raising potential.
•
  U
sing technology to improve 
effectiveness, ensuring business  
processes meet the needs of  
students, staff and stakeholders.
•
  R
eleasing the full potential of our people  
by: celebrating our achievements internally and externally; showcasing success;  
and instilling a sense of institutional  
pride in our staff.  
      Transform
•  Harnessing  the full capabilities of  
all our people by actively promoting  
gender equality, and advancing equality  
of opportunity among those who share  
a protected characteristic.
•
  L
everaging maximum benefit from our 
available resources to deliver our vision  
for the University.
•
  C
reating spaces where our community  
can come together intellectually, socially and culturally by investing in our estate and developing the University’s physical and technological infrastructure.
•
  E
nsuring staff are valued, passionate 
about their roles and inspired to  
provide the highest quality services.
•
  I
nvesting in personal and professional 
development and leadership at all  
levels in the University, encouraging secondments to deepen and broaden  
the professional experience of our staff, and actively encouraging ideas and innovative approaches to work. 
•
  T
hrough investment in our work  
and study environment, creating  
a campus that attracts and retains  
well-qualified staff.  
Outcomes
We will measure success with the following outcomes and targets:
•
  I
ncreasing our annual income by  
£50 million from the 2014/15 baseline, 
and generating sufficient revenue to invest in institutional priorities throughout the lifetime of the Strategic Plan.  
      
•
   B eing a sector leader by being  
ranked in the top quartile as ‘a good  
place to work’. This will be measured  
in our biennial staff survey.
•
  P
roviding outstanding academic and 
professional services, to build on our strong record for student retention, attainment and satisfaction.  
     
•
   B eing seen as an innovator in 
higher education management, and benchmarking our operational effectiveness against the ‘best in class’  
in the higher education, public and  
private sectors.
•
  A
chieving Athena SWAN institutional 
Silver and a departmental Gold award.  To achieve our effectiveness and 
sustainability objectives we will: 
Laurelin van der Molen  
Environmental Projects  
Co-ordinator 
Students’ UnionI run the Union’s environmental hub:  
the Green and Blue Space. From here  
we deliver the Union’s environmental 
projects around waste and energy-use reduction and facilitate sustainable and environmental student activity. We have a community garden on campus which is managed by students and shared with the local community. We grow everything using organic methods. I work with a wonderful team of volunteers, the Union, University, and a variety of external partners to build  
a sustainable community.“ R unning the Union’s environmental hub means 
I am contributing to helping the Students’ Union 
reduce waste and energy consumption.”  
Strategic Plan 2016–2021      31
Kathy McCabe
University Librarian and Director of Information Services“ B y using the best technology, and creating 
readily accessible online spaces, we are 
helping transform study and working environments.”Robert Morrison
Web DeveloperCommunications, Marketing and Public Engagement
My area is helping to transform the way our 
staff and students connect with each other and the wider world. We increased JANET network connectivity which has enabled  
the University to embrace cloud technology. The introduction of high-quality Wi-Fi allows us to remain constantly connected to the network and has led to a significant increase in student engagement with our virtual learning environment. As a Web Developer I work closely with our web editors across the University’s faculties and directorates. Building on the core technologies provided by Information Services, my job in the Marketing team is to create the templates, structures and styles that define the University’s online presence. By implementing these building-blocks effectively, we are connecting with a worldwide audience. It’s particularly rewarding to know we are consistently helping to improve the experience for  
everyone who visits our website.
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       31 30

Strategic Plan 2016–2021      33
The strength of Stirling is its people.  
We value ability and aim to retain  
and attract talented individuals and  
assist them in realising their full potential. 
The level of engagement and enthusiasm shown by our students, staff and  
members of the global University  
community in developing this Plan,  
gives us the confidence that together  
we will achieve our future ambitions. The Strategic Plan 2016–2021 signals  
the next stage in the realisation of our  
vision to be recognised across the world  
as a university that addresses the needs of society through innovative interdisciplinary research; learning and teaching of the highest quality; and by sharing our knowledge with the world. 
Eileen Schofield  
University Secretary and Chief Operating Officer“ O ur people are our most valuable asset  
and the contribution of staff is critical  
to our success.”Fiona Sandford  
Chair of the University Court“ T his plan illustrates  
the scale of our ambition 
to be a globally-connected university.”
Strategic Plan 2016–2021       33 32
This strategy builds on  
our previous Strategic Plan.  
On one level it recognises  
the importance of continuity  
but it also charts an even 
more ambitious trajectory.  Our objectives can be summarised  
by the mnemonic '25-50-100':
Be one of the top 25 
universities in the UK
Increase our income  
by £50 millionEnhance our research 
profile by 100 percentEach of the three objectives, and our 
commitment to be an international university, will be monitored by  
University Court. In delivering our objectives, we will:Summary
Ensure 
internationalisation  is at the heart of everything we do 
Conclusion
The University has delivered on that. It has 
done so through a mix of intellectual rigour and pragmatism, harnessed to a clear vision.
Everything we do is done with a purpose.  
We discover things and make sure those 
who can benefit know about it; we provide a challenging and stimulating environment for learning and teaching; we make a difference to society.The scale of our aspiration comes  
from active discussions with the broad University community and our external partners. That knowledge in itself is  
enough to give us confidence that we  
can deliver our shared vision, regardless  
of the changing environment in which  
we work. By 2021 we will be better connected; we will have delivered  
innovation in all sorts of ways; and,  
through our people, we will have transformed the lives of many others. Stirling has risen to the challenge set by Lord Robbins half a 
century ago. Robbins saw the expansion of higher education –  
of which Stirling was a part – as “an essential condition for the realisation in the modern age of the ideals of a free and democratic society.”
Find out how our people are  
delivering the Strategic Plan at: 
www.stir.ac.uk/strategicplan
34“ Everything  
we do is  
done with  
a purpose.”
UZ0001 Stirling Document cover.indd   2 07/04/2016   12:45
Strategic  
Plan
2016–2021
Design:  Whitespace
Produced by:  Communications, Marketing  
  and Public Engagement,  
  University of Stirling
Photography:  Elaine Livingstone  
  White House Studios 
University of Stirling 
FK9 4LA Scotland, UKwww.stir.ac.ukT: 01786 473171
Disclaimer Liability: The University of Stirling reserves the right without 
notice to vary the content of information described in this publication and to modify as seems appropriate. The University is a registered trademark. All information correct at time of going to print. © University of Stirling (2016). All rights reserved. The University of Stirling is a recognised  
Scottish Charity with number SC011159.
UZ0001 Stirling Document cover.indd   1 07/04/2016   12:45
