 Strategic Plan  2021-2025
University  
of Cyprus   
2025
      “Change and 
              Adapting to  
                     Challenges”
University  of Cyprus 2025 #2Rector’s Message ........................................................................................................3 
Introduction ..................................................................................................................4 
1.  UCY  in 2020 ..............................................................................................................5 
2.  SWOT analysis ..........................................................................................................6 
3.  Vision ..........................................................................................................................7 
4.  Mission ......................................................................................................................7 
5.  Values ........................................................................................................................7 
6.  Strategic  goals and operational objectives ..................................................8Contents
University  of Cyprus 2025 #3Where we were –30 years ago– when the University of Cyprus  
admitted its first students in 1992, where we are and where we wish  
to go. These are the questions that concern, motivate and keep our  
university community alert towards achieving the goals and  
objectives of the University of Cyprus. Our love for our organisation 
and our genuine care for its development further push us to think  
and act so that it can reach its full potential, while positively  
impacting our society. The strategic plan is our compass in this  
continuous journey of knowledge, research, innovation and pursue of excellence.  
This edition presents the main goals and objectives of the  
University of Cyprus for a 5-year period (2021-2025). Among our top  
priorities outlined in this guide are: Internationalisation, discovering new sources of revenue,  
synergies in teaching and research with partners across the globe, the optimal utilisation of  
copyrights and patents, using technology to promote hybrid and distance teaching, the  
development and sustainability of the university via attracting high-calibre researchers, students  
and staff both from Cyprus and abroad, and accelerating infrastructure development.  
A university, by its very nature, is called upon to respond effectively in its multiple roles, as an  
institution of education and culture, as an accelerator of positive change and impact, as a civic  
partner, a defender of values and principles, as a mentor to its students and alumni and, most  
importantly, as an example – a role model for society.  
A lesson learned from the COVID-19 pandemic and its management is that crises should not be excuses for idleness; on the contrary, crises should be considered milestones for becoming  
better, for improving, for progressing and for acting more effectively, restructuring and adjusting  
our operations when and where needed. 
The Strategic plan is a dynamic proposal that is constantly adapting according to the demands  
and needs of the changing environment in which we operate. Its success is based on the  
commitment of the university community in this “contract” for creative development and  
progress. 
 
Professor T asos Christoﬁ desRector’s Message

University  of Cyprus 2025 #4In a rapidly- changing context , the University of Cyprus ( UCY ) aims at excellence  and  
distinction in the broader Euro -Mediterranean  area. To rationally manage the challenges  
ahead and to ensure its operational  continuity amidst crises, UCY  is changing, adjusting , 
and evolving.  
The Aims and Objectives of the present Strategic  Plan, coupled with the Action Plan, will 
serve as a compass and road map, guiding UCY  in its journey between 2021-2025  
towards  producing excellent  outcomes and effectively handling any challenges. 
The Strategic  Objectives set are the outcome of the systematic  analysis of the first four 
years of implementation of the Strategic  Plan 2016-2025, the feedback received from it 
and the consultation sought both within the academic community and the external  
stakeholders. 
The  main priorities of UCY  for 2021-2025 are: Introduction
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.Internationalisation
Generate income
Recruit high-calibre academic staff
Attract students of high academic level
Develop hybrid and/or distant/remote forms of education
Accelerate infrastructure development
University  of Cyprus 2025 #5UCY  in 2020
18 
Faculties  22 
Departments  126  
Programmes of Study  
       •   29 undergraduates 
       •   54 postgraduates (master) 
       •   43 postgraduates (doctoral)  
6919  Students 
  •  5190 undergraduates 
  •  1050 postgraduates (master)  
  •    676 postgraduates (doctoral)27111 
Graduates  1996-2020 
          •  19837 undergraduates 
            •  6514 postgraduates (master)  
            •  760 postgraduates (doctoral)601-700 
Academic Ranking  
of World Universities 
(Shanghai Ranking)
501-600  
Times Higher Education  
World University Rankings340   
Members of Teaching and  
Research staff  
            •  117 Professors 
            •  125 Associate  Professors 
            •    53 Asistant Professors 
            •    45 Lecturers481  
Members of  
Administrative Staff
420/84 
Submitted/ successful  
research proposals€25,7 million  
Budget for externally funded 
research projects€169  million  
UCY  budgetFounded in 1989 
1st Public University in Cyprus 
Faculty of Humanities 
• Department of English Studies 
•  Department of French and European Studies 
• Department of Turkish  and  
Middle Eastern Studies 
Faculty  of Pure  
and Applied Sciences 
• Department of Biological Sciences 
• Department of Mathematics and Statistics 
• Department of Computer Science 
• Department of Physics  
• Department of Chemistry 
Faculty  of Social Sciences  
and Education 
• Department of Education 
•  Department of Social and Political Sciences 
• Department of Law 
• Department of PsychologyGraduate  
School 
 
 
Medical School 
 
 
10 Research Units 
  
2 Research 
and Innovation 
Centers of 
ExcellenceFaculty of Economics  
and Management 
• Department of Economics  
• Department of Business and  
Public Administration 
• Department of Accounting and Finance 
Faculty  of Engineering 
• Department of Architecture  
• Department of Civil and  
Enironmental  Engineering 
• Department of Electrical and  
Computer Engineering 
• Department of Mechanical and 
Manufacturing Engineering  
Faculty  of Letters 
• Department of Byzantine and  
Modern Greek Studies  
• Department of History and Archaeology  
• Department of Classics and Philosophy
University  of Cyprus 2025 #6SWOT  analysis    Strengths 
 
    Reliability and recognition at local, regional,  
and international level 
    Quality of human resources and alumni  
    Infrastructure and high-quality know-how  
    High level and broad range of programmes  
of study 
    Encouragement and support of scientific research  
    Local and international networking  
    Ability to secure competitive research  
programmes and external funding  
    Tuition-free undergraduate education for  
EU citizens  
    Essential contribution to society    Weaknesses 
 
    Time-consuming decision-making processes  
    Restrictive student admission system and criteria  
    Ineffective governing system  
    Restrictive legal framework for 
     o    offering undergraduate study programmes  
in a foreign language of instruction 
     o    administrative autonomy and financial 
management  
    Insufficient exploitation of basic and applied  
research results  
    Insufficient promotion of the organisation  
    Ineffective evaluation system for administrative  
staff 
    Insufficient promotion opportunities for  
administrative staff (limited promotion positions)  
    Lack of language policy 
    Delays in building construction  
    Restrictive legal framework for the creation of  
start-ups/spin-offs
Opportunities 
 
    Young Universities for the Future of Europe  
(YUFE) alliance 
    Reinforcement and exploitation of infrastructure 
and know-how for web-based teaching and 
learning (due to the pandemic)  
    Development of flexible employment and use  
of teleworking (due to the pandemic)  
    Attracting students from Greece and of Cypriot  
diaspora  
    Deployment of alumni as UCY ambassadors at  
national, regional, and international level  
    Effective use of recommendations made by the  
evaluation committees of The Cyprus Agency  
of Quality Assurance and Accreditation in Higher  
Education (CYQAA) regarding quality assurance  
of programmes of study  
    Capitalisation on “Brexit”  
    EU research & innovation framework programme  
Horizon Europe (2021 – 2027) 
    Geographical positionThreats  
 
    Financial deficiencies in implementing the  
Strategic Plan  
    Insufficient staffing to meet the development of  
the Organisation 
    Decreasing quality of secondary education 
    Limited competitiveness of the Organisation as an 
employer in relation to employment terms abroad 
(salary, benefits, incentives, etc.)  
    Pandemic – reduced student and staff mobility 
    Competitive programmes of study offered by  
universities in Greece and/or abroad  
    Large number of top Cypriot students opt for 
studying abroad 
    Decrease in the number of candidates participating 
in the Pancyprian Examinations2
University  of Cyprus 2025 #7“The University of Cyprus aspires to establish itself as one of the  
best universities in the world and envisions functioning as a  
beacon of science, ethos and creativity in the greater Euro-
Mediterranean area”
Vision
3  Mission
4“The training/education of scientists who are characterised by  
ethos and critical thinking, actively participate in scientific  
research and innovation, contribute to cultural creativity and  
social renewal, as well as to the sustainable economic and  
social growth of Cyprus and the greater Euro-Mediterranean  
area”Values
51. Meritocracy 
2. Transparency 
3. Responsibility 
4. Freedom 
5. Diversity  
6. Social inclusion 
7. Social equity and equality
University  of Cyprus 2025 #8Strategic goal#1 |Strengthening competitiveness and international recognition among 
the top universities in the world 
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
∞. 
Excellence in teaching 
and learningΑ1.  Improve quality of teaching and 
link it to research 
Α2.  Enrich existing departments with 
academic staff in new 
specialisations, while ensuring critical numbers of members are  
maintained  
Α3.  Attract excellent undergraduate  
and postgraduate students  
Α4.  Set up work experience 
acquisition mechanisms and establish links with programmes of study  
Α5.  Develop infrastructure,  
mechanisms and programmes  
for hybrid and/or distance education  
Α6.  Strengthen academic autonomy  
 
 
 
Β1.  Strengthen the ability of the  
University to internationally 
attract excellent academic staff  
Β2.  Attract excellent researchers 
Β3.  Strengthen and support  
sustainable development of  
research 
B4.  Maintain and support research  
areas of diachronic value 
Β5.  Interconnect research activities 
and innovation with  
entrepreneurship and the needs  
of the society  
Β6.  Establish new academic and 
research entities  
Β7.  Accelerate the IT, lab and  
building development of the  
University•   Percentage of new and current  
academic staff who received teaching training  
•   Percentage of undergraduate  
students admitted to UCY with a  
score >18.5/20 
•   Percentage of departments whose  
>20% of students acquire work  
experience >6 weeks prior to  
graduation 
•   Number of hybrid or distance 
programmes of study  
•   Average number of semesters up 
to graduation 
•   Student-to-Staff Ratio 
 
 
  
 
•  Number of peer-reviewed  
international publications per 
academic staff member (in recognised journals or collective works/volumes or conference proceedings) or number of monographs or books in  
international publishing houses  
•  Number of citations  
•  Percentage of researchers who 
secured tenure-track/tenured  
teaching and research positions 
•  Number of researchers employed 
through research programmes  
•  Number of submitted/approved 
externally funded research projects  
•  Number of internationally 
registered patentsB. 
Research and 
innovation 
developmentStrategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #9Strategic goal#1 |Strengthening competitiveness and international recognition among 
the top universities in the world 
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
C. 
Internationalisation C1. Attract and effectively support  
international students in existing  
or new programmes of study  
C2. Develop international partnerships 
to strengthen student and alumni  
mobility  
C3. Develop international partnerships 
to strengthen academic staff and 
researcher mobility 
C4. Develop international partnerships 
to strengthen administrative staff  
mobility 
C5. Develop international strategic  
partnerships to promote research and teaching (summer schools; establishment of international institutes at UCY, etc.)  
C6. Develop international activities 
C7. Increase UCY students’  
participation in international competitions either individually  or in teams•  Number of incoming/outgoing 
students within the framework of Erasmus+ and other bilateral agreements  
•  Number of Teaching and Research  
Staff members who visited UCY within the framework of the  
“University of Diaspora”  
•  Number of incoming/outgoing 
students within the framework of the Young Universities for the Future of Europe (YUFE) alliance and other collaborations  
•  Number of undergraduate 
programmes of study offered in a foreign language of instruction  
•  Number of foreign students 
•  Number of foreign Teaching and 
Research Staff members  
•  Number of international 
conferences and participants  
•  Number of administrative staff  
members who participated in Erasmus+ and/or other bilateral  
agreements  
•  Number of cooperations, one or  
more terms of which have already  
been implemented 
•  Number of UCY student  
participations in international competitions 
•  Number of Teaching and Research  
Staff members invited to give  
public lectures or teach at foreign  
universities (outside the framework  
of the Erasmus programme)Strategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #10Strategic goal#1 |Strengthening competitiveness and international recognition among 
the top universities in the world 
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
D. 
Connecting with 
alumni, industry, 
and external 
organisationsD1.  Develop strategic partnerships  
with universities, research 
centres, institutes, public services,  
cultural institutions and businesses 
D2.  Ensure optimal utilisation of  
copyrights and patents  
(cooperatives, spin-offs and start-up companies) 
D3.  Develop professional and lifelong  
learning as well as vocational education and training  
programmes and provide  
consultancy services to the public and private sectors.  
D4.  Develop and utilise synergies  
with local universities to maximise benefits for society  
D5.  Develop synergies between 
Greek- and Turkish-Cypriot  
students, alumni, and academics  
based on institutional provisions 
D6.  Strengthen effective participation  
of alumni in UCY development  
and activities by providing updates and services  
 
 Ε1.    Ensure continuous upgrading of  
existing study programmes and  
introduce new ones in line with  
the expectations of the  
international labour market and 
the ‘knowledge society’ . 
Ε2.    Enhance the language, critical  
thinking, and communication skills as well as the professional networking of students and  
alumni 
 •  Number of patents and other  
intellectual property rights utilised  
(e.g., licensed, sold or developed into spin-offs or start-up  
companies) 
•  Number of vocational education 
and training programmes offered  
to the public or private sectors and  
alumni 
•  Percentage of Teaching and 
Research Staff members who  
provide consulting services  
•  Percentage of students  
participating in “University Labour  
Market Liaison Offices” project 
•  Number of students and recent  
graduates who participated in the  
Erasmus+ Traineeships programme  
and were subsequently employed in a relevant sector in Cyprus or  
abroad 
 
    
 
•  Percentage of students who were  
employed in a sector relevant to  
their studies within 12 months of  
their graduation (or of having  
passed their professional 
examinations) 
•  Percentage of students who 
attended communication skills  
courses offered by the UCY Career  
Centre  
•  Percentage of students and 
graduates who attended B2 level  
courses at the UCY Language  
Centre  ∂. 
Enhancing student 
and alumni 
employability Strategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #11Strategic goal#2 | Sustainable development of UCY
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
∞. 
Developing new, 
and enhancing 
existing, funding 
sources Α1. Attract donations, grants and  
other external funding  
Α2. Attract investment through  
strategic partnerships with local  
and international companies and  
organisations  
Α3. Economic exploitation of  
intellectual property rights 
(copyrights and patents)  
Α4. Broaden UCY educational  
activities/services  
  
   Β1. Develop and monitor a plan for 
optimal utilisation of resources  
Β2. Prepare strategy for financial  
reserves’ management 
Β3. Ensure the steady development of  
the University into a Green and  
“Smart” University 
  C1. Enhance efficiency 
C2. Enhance flexibility in the  
management of human resources •  Income from donations/grants  
•  Income from economic exploitation  
of intellectual property rights  
(copyrights and patents) 
•  Income from new educational 
activities 
•  Income from Research and  
Development (R&D) consulting 
services 
•  Income from exploiting 
infrastructure and specialised equipment 
•  Income from postgraduate 
programmes  
 
 •  Return on Investment (ROI) of UCY  
•  Preparation and submission of 2022  
budget based on activities 
•  Implementation rate of actions  
for “smart campus” transformation 
   •  Implementation rate of Financial  
and HR Management (Success 
Factors Human Experience  
Management - SAP) systems 
•  Level of student/academic staff  
satisfaction with provided administrative services μ. 
Effective  
management of 
resources and 
financial reserves 
C. 
A model of 
effective 
administrationStrategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #12Strategic goal#2 | Sustainable development of UCY
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
D. 
Optimal 
organisationD1.Reorganise the administrative 
structure for optimal utilisation of  
human resources in proving 
services to the academic community 
D2.Ensure there is an effective degree 
of autonomy in the operation of  
organisational entities  
 
 
E1. Improve human resources 
management systems, enhance 
meritocracy, good administration,  
and gender balance in all decision-making committees, at  
all administrative and academic  
levels  
Ε2. Ensure continuous training and  
professional development of  
personnel 
Ε3. Develop an accountability 
mechanism and effective incentive systems  
E4. Strengthen synergies among  
Teaching and Research Staff  
members from different  
Departments and Schools 
Ε5. Use teleworking as an alternative  
working mode •  Implementation rate of the study  
on the effective degree of autonomy in the operation of  
academic entities  
•  Number of administrative staff who  
become available due to automation and can be redeployed  
to other positions 
 
 
•  Number of incentives applied for  
administrative personnel  
•  Percentage of administrative staff  
who attended at least one  
educational/ training seminar  
•  Number of publications and/or  
research projects with the 
collaboration of more than one  
Teaching and Research Staff  
member  
•  Number of interdisciplinary 
Programmes of Study  
•  Number of Inter-School and Inter-
Departmental Programmes of  
Study 
•  Number of complaints raised by  
members of the academic community related to issues of discrimination and harassment  
•  Percentage of administrative staff  
who made use of teleworking 
•  Time spent teleworking 
•  Average satisfaction score of  
academic and student community  
with the administrative services  
provided ∂. 
Fostering  
the desired staff 
cultureStrategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #13Strategic goal#3 | Vehicle of culture and contribution to society
Operational objectiveKey Performance Indicator 
(KPI)
∞. 
Enhance cultural 
contributionΑ1. Establish a long-term strategy for  
the support of existing, and the 
development of new, cultural  
activities 
  
Β1. Utilise the Medical School to 
support public health services  
Β2. Promote scientific culture through  
actions of scientific  
communication and public 
participation 
Β3. Civil society consultation 
mechanism and Lifelong Learning  
programmes  
Β4. Optimal utilisation of academic  
and administrative staff expertise  
for the benefit of society and the state  
Β5. Link research to the United 
Nations Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDG’s 
 (Indicators will be specified after  
drawing up the cultural strategy) 
  
 
•  Number of University Hospitals 
•  Percentage of Teaching and 
Research Staff who participate in 
the "Free University" institution 
•  Percentage of Teaching and 
Research Staff engaged in  
research and teaching activities in Cyprus (beyond UCY)  
•  Percentage of alumni and other 
interested parties participating in the Lifelong Learning programmes  
offered 
•  Number of Teaching and Research  
Staff, Special Teaching Staff, and  
administrative staff who  
participate in public services  
committees or other entities, or  
provide consulting services 
•  Number of immigrants and  
political refugees attending Greek  
language courses at the UCY  
School of Modern Greekμ. 
Substantial public 
contribution Strategic Goals and Operational Objectives 
6
University  of Cyprus 2025 #14University  of Cyprus
 
September 2021 Strategic Plan 2021-2025
