Seizing a sustainable future
         
Our strategy is rooted in global challenges to which we seek solutions in our profile areas through interdisciplinary research and multidisciplinary education. In doing so, we build a responsible and sustainable future.
The high standard of research and education of our university builds a global future and strengthens the vitality of eastern Finland. We foster education and culture by making research-based knowledge available to benefit everyone.
 UEF2030
  
   We have the right and freedom to learn, to teach and to do research.
We are
courageous, open and
responsible.
Our activities are guided by ethicality
and Sustainable Development Goals.
UEF2030
    
   IMPACT
                RESEARCH EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTERS OF THE STRATEGY Staff | Students | Partners
UEF2030
  
  PROFILE AREAS IN RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
STRATEGIC PROGRAMMES
Cultural encounters, mobilities and
borders
Research-based understanding
Modern and renewal- driven learning
A participatory and inclusive university
   Diversifying learning and interaction
Ageing, lifestyles and health
 Environmental change and sustainable use
of natural resources
UEF2030
  
 Strategic programme: Research-based understanding
World-class science – a high standard of interdisciplinary research
Finding solutions to the complex problems of our changing world calls for an ability to think and combine things in a novel way.
Science for all – a pioneer of open science and science communication
Open science and an open operating culture improve the quality and impact of research. The use of research findings by society is intensified and science reaches an increasing number of people.
Part of regional and global development – a key agent of interaction in ecosystems
We participate in the creation of ecosystems of impact in the university’s profile areas, bringing a greater number of people within science’s sphere of influence.
    
 Strategic programme: Modern and renewal-driven learning
A learner-centred university – student-centred and networked learning environments
We develop the contents, modes and structures of education in a multidisciplinary and challenge- driven way with the latest research findings, professional relevance and societal needs in mind. Students, high-level learning processes and student well-being stand at the core of our activities.
Continuous learning – education that anticipates societal needs
We enable continuous learning and access to our education through an extensive academic offering as well as through open, multi-modal and flexible teaching.
International expertise – stronger mobility and educational immigration
We strengthen internationality in education and educational immigration. The university’s most important contribution to society are its graduates, who have the working skills that are needed in changing and international environments.
    
 Strategic programme: A participatory and inclusive university
Strong sense of community – an academic community characterised by well-being
The university’s staff and students are its most important assets. The university is an international, creative, participatory and inclusive scientific community that encourages open interaction.
Renewal-driven expertise – motivated staff and recognised strengths
The university’s success calls for successful recruitment. We allocate our human resources according to our strategic goals. We offer our teachers and researchers a clear, goal-oriented and incentivised career model. We make it possible for our staff to focus on duties that correspond to their expertise at different stages of their careers.
Open interaction and smooth service
We offer smooth services that cater to the needs of the academic community and our stakeholders. We operate responsibly in society, through impactful and sustainable partnerships. Leadership is based on current information.
    