HULL UNIVERSITY BUSINESS SCHOOL
THE LOGISTICS INSTITUTEA fairer, brighter, 
carbon neutral future
Contents
Introduction   4
Our vision, mission & values  6
People 8
Place   10
Partnership 12
Measuring our success 14
Our commitment 
to a more 
sustainable future
2 INTRODUCTION
Our commitment  
to a more  
sustainable future
  INTRODUCTION  3
Inspired by the 
power of our 
global community
Founded in 1927 as a ‘centre of 
light and culture’ for Hull, the 
University is proud to play a 
leading role in the educational, 
social, economic and cultural 
development of our unique city 
and region. 
This strong sense of place remains at the heart of our 
identity. The global perspective and expertise of our 
talented people and our dynamic collaborations with 
partners locally, nationally and internationally enable 
us to bring communities together—to enrich lives, 
address the challenges facing our region and share 
solutions that are transferable across an increasingly 
connected yet polarised world. It is this union between 
education, research and knowledge exchange, and 
between the local and the global, which de/f.shortines our 
internationally engaged civic university.
4 INTRODUCTION
Motivated by society’s challenges
Persistent injustices exist across many diﬀ  erent 
areas of society: the inhumanity of modern 
slavery and exploitation, inequalities in 
education and health outcomes, and regional 
disparities in employment opportunities 
and economic security, to name but a few. 
Meanwhile, the threats from climate change 
grow ever more urgent, requiring a rapid 
transition to clean growth and a low-carbon 
future. Moreover, these are intersecting 
challenges, with the climate crisis a further 
source of injustice as its most severe impacts 
are set to fall on those communities both least 
likely to contribute to its causes and least able 
to mitigate and adapt to its eﬀ  ects. 
We know that a 
singular focus on 
economic growth brings 
disproportionate bene/f_i  ts 
to those with advantage .To achieve a more equitable and sustainable 
society, inclusive social and economic 
development is essential, and this is the case 
both for the Humber and globally.
Our strategy recognises that these are
challenges with no quick solutions. Making
a diﬀ  erence will require the dedicated, long 
term, collective eﬀ  ort of a strong community
over at least the next decade. The University
of Hull seeks to drive this change, drawing
on our areas of strength and collaborating
with partners from our region and around the
world. Working across the multidisciplinary
themes of energy and environment, social
justice and responsibility, health, cultural and
creative industries, and business and logistics,
we will shape socially and environmentally just
solutions. Our strategy establishes this as our
enduring and consistent objective through to
2030. This date is aligned with the target set
by the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
and takes in the signi/f.shorticant milestone of our 
pledge to become carbon neutral by our 
centenary year in 2027.
Fulﬁ  lling our vision
Strategy 2030 sets out a clear and stable 
vision of our purpose and the qualities that will 
characterise both our work and our University 
community. These provide a framework 
against which consistent decisions can be 
taken, resources can be prioritised, 
and coherent plans can be made.
The quality and impact of our work is 
dependent on the University’s own strength 
and resilience. Therefore, our strategy is 
underpinned by the need for robust /f.shortinancial 
sustainability and operational eﬀ  ectiveness 
and e/f_f.short  iciency.  We have already made 
signi/f.shorticant progress in this regard, and we will 
continue throughout to work as one University 
to invest in strength and opportunity, divest 
from areas of diminishing return and low 
potential, and focus on delivering excellence 
consistently across all areas and facets of 
our business. In all we do, our approach will be inclusive, 
empowering and progressive. 
We will be motivated by the desire to 
lead creative change at the forefront of 
environmental sustainability and social justice.
Through the talent and dedication of our 
people, our strong sense of place and the 
vitality of our partnerships, we will together 
shape a fairer, brighter and carbon 
neutral future.
  INTRODUCTION 5
To advance education, 
scholarship, knowledge 
and understanding through 
teaching and research, 
for the bene/f_i  t of individuals 
and society at largeOur mission
Motivated by society’s 
challenges and inspired by the 
power of our global community, 
we are shaping a fairer, brighter 
and carbon neutral futureOur vision
6 OUR VISION & MISSION As enshrined in our Royal Charter. 
Our values
We are inclusive
•  We provide a safe, friendly and welcoming 
environment for all, where our diﬀ  erences 
are celebrated
•  We help each and every one of our students, staﬀ   and 
partners to achieve their full potential with a personal, 
supportive approach
• We celebrate individual and collective success
•  We are mindful as to the positive and negative impact 
of what we each do, every day, on other individuals 
and communities both near and far
We are empowering
•  We empower people to succeed, recognising 
that with empowerment comes responsibility 
and accountability
•  We build people’s con/f.shortidence through understanding, 
knowledge, skills and experience
•  We stretch people’s minds and help them develop new 
ways of thinking and working that will help shape a 
fairer, brighter future
•  Through equal opportunity, we ensure everyone has 
the opportunity to shineOur values
We are progressive
•  We set high standards and challenge ourselves 
and others to deliver meaningful progress with 
tangible outcomes 
•  We follow and develop best practice across all 
areas of our activity 
•  We work at pace and are always future-facing and, 
with agility, ready to adapt 
•  We learn to be self-re/f.shortlective so we can seek 
improvement, make an even bigger diﬀ  erence 
and embrace a diﬀ  erent future
  OUR VALUES 7
People
Our inclusive, supportive and  
responsible community will enable 
talented individuals to flourish.
8 PEOPLE 
Our University will be characterised by
1.1.   A diverse and strong community of 
talented and motivated individuals where: 
 a.  all people, whatever their circumstances 
and from wherever they hail in the 
world, feel welcome, respected 
and supported
 b.  local, national and international 
students, regardless of background, 
have the opportunity to enter our 
University, realise their potential and 
achieve excellent outcomes
 c.  staﬀ   are developed and empowered 
to deliver world-leading education, 
research and knowledge exchange and 
an outstanding student experience
1.2.   A clear portfolio of attractive, engaging, 
student-focused undergraduate and 
postgraduate programmes that are 
informed by excellent research and which 
equip our graduates with the skills for 
lifelong careers and the drive to shape a 
just and sustainable future1.3.   A responsive, personalised and consistent 
approach to student support
1.4.   A vibrant research environment 
that supports interdisciplinary and 
collaborative approaches to create novel 
insights and address key regional, national 
and global challenges 
1.5.   An inspiring and collegiate workplace that 
attracts, retains and rewards talent from 
around the world
1.6.   A culture of intellectual challenge, 
innovation and enterprise that fosters 
creativity and collaboration and 
encourages our staﬀ  , students, alumni, 
partner colleagues and community 
visitors to achieve their best
1.7.   Recognition as a sector leader in equality, 
diversity and inclusion
To achieve our ambitions, we will
2.1.  Implement considered, evidence-based 
increases to entry tariﬀ  , in combination 
with a con/f.shortident programme of widening 
access and participation and pursuing 
growth in student numbers only where 
this aligns with our strategy, expertise and 
proven demands
2.2.   Tackle social barriers to success 
and demographic inequalities in 
student outcomes
2.3.   Ensure that our curricula are 
inclusive, decolonised and support 
diverse learner needs 2.4.   Raise awareness of, promote and foster 
physical and mental wellbeing 
2.5.   Embed inclusive practices across all 
our ways of working 
2.6.   Nurture talent and the realisation of each 
staﬀ   member’s potential through the 
alignment of personal and professional 
development with the strategic objectives 
of the University
2.7.  Facilitate through eﬀ  ective mentoring and 
support appropriate and timely individual 
progression and active succession 
planning that is sensitive to diﬀ  erent roles, 
career stages and trajectories 
2.8.   Foster high-performing, collegial and 
accountable teams, sharing and learning 
from good practice across the institution 
and rewarding excellence in education, 
research, knowledge exchange and 
professional services
  PEOPLE 9
Our University will be characterised by
3.1.  A strong sense of place evidenced through 
open, engaged and constructive relations 
with our city, our communities and 
our region 
3.2.   An explicit appreciation of the mutual 
relevance and resonance of global 
challenges to those facing the United 
Kingdom and the Humber, manifest in 
the design and delivery of our education, 
research and knowledge-exchange 
activity
3.3.   Thought leadership and outstanding 
challenge-led research, knowledge 
exchange and innovation that has 
application, impact and bene/f.shortit locally, 
nationally and globally3.4.   Responsive and collaborative leadership 
of the skills agenda in our region, 
delivering /f.shortlexible opportunities 
for learning that serve the needs of 
industry and our communities, support 
productivity and promote social mobility 
and environmental sustainability
3.5.   An outstanding student experience 
enriched by our ability to provide high 
quality ‘everything on your doorstep’ 
facilities in a safe, inclusive, friendly and 
welcoming environment  
3.6.   A truly international community that 
celebrates our place in a connected, global 
world and promotes open cooperation 
across borders, nationalities and cultures
To achieve our ambitions, we will
4.1.  Proactively engage with fellow academic 
institutions and key businesses, industries, 
and charitable and cultural sector 
organisations to realise our mission 
through leadership, collaboration and 
shared endeavour 
4.2.    Understand how the issues associated 
with our place and the expertise of our 
University are relevant to education, 
research and knowledge exchange 
nationally and globally—and use this 
insight eﬀ  ectively to foster existing 
strengths, anticipate emerging trends and 
move with pace and decisiveness to seize 
new strategic opportunities
4.3.   Work with strategic partners to identify 
and deliver the high-level skills required to 
stimulate inclusive and clean growth 
4.4.   Meet the economic, social, health and 
cultural needs of our region and beyond 
through educating and training a strong 
pipeline of talent4.5.   Draw on our expertise and excellent 
facilities to take a leading role in the 
cultural life and development of our city 
and region
4.6.  Develop a Civic University Agreement in 
full collaboration with students, staﬀ  , the 
public and key civic stakeholders in order 
to guide our civic activity and ensure our 
positive impact in our region
4.7.  Broaden international and on-campus 
opportunities for students and staﬀ   
that foster awareness, understanding 
and respect for all cultures, and the 
knowledge, values and skills required 
to collaborate eﬀ  ectively to deliver 
sustainable development in a competitive 
global environment
4.8.   Invest in further development of our 
international reach and global pro/f.shortile
10  PLACE 
Place
Our rich heritage as an institution 
rooted in our region and our strong 
international reputation, will drive 
our work as a responsive, globally 
engaged civic university.
  PLACE 11
Partnership
As an eﬀ  ective and dynamic partner 
of choice, we will work in strategic 
collaboration with others to deliver 
impact with mutual and wider beneﬁ  t.
12  PARTNERSHIP 
Our University will be characterised by
5.1.  Genuine partnership with our students 
which sees the co-construction of a 
university experience that is outstanding
5.2.   Active and meaningful partnership 
between academic and professional 
services staﬀ  , working with shared values 
towards common goals
5.3.   Partnership between academic 
colleagues, both within and external 
to our University, which drives the 
interdisciplinarity and collegial approach 
required to pursue research and 
knowledge exchange that delivers high-
impact solutions to global challenges
5.4.   A collaborative approach to delivering 
high-quality professional services, where 
innovation and best practice is achieved 
through partnership between teams and 
active external engagement with others 
within both higher education and 
other sectors
5.5.   Constructive dialogue and partnership 
working with trade union colleagues in 
the best interests of the University, its staﬀ   
and its students5.6.   Partnership with key government, 
community, public and private sector 
organisations which drives fair and 
sustainable social and economic 
regeneration, develops skills and talent 
pipelines, and facilitates in/f.shortluential 
collaborative research and 
knowledge exchange 
5.7.  International partnerships with like-
minded institutions founded on 
complementary research strengths and 
shared educational values
5.8.   Partnership with our alumni that nurtures 
a lifelong relationship with the University, 
supports and celebrates their success and 
delivers bene/f.shortit for the current and future 
generation of Hull students
5.9.   Public engagement via open dialogue that 
shares understanding, brings communities 
together and ensures that our research, 
knowledge exchange and education is 
responsive and relevant
To achieve our ambitions, we will
6.1.  Develop and foster our partnership with 
students at all levels of the organisation 
and through the Hull University 
Students’ Union
6.2.  Facilitate partnership working across the 
institution by:
  a.  moving to a user-led approach to all 
services, ensuring that they enable the 
achievement of our academic mission, 
outstanding student experience and 
excellence in research and knowledge 
exchange through lean, e/f_f.short  icient and 
eﬀ  ective systems and processes
 b.  removing barriers to creativity and 
innovation whilst eﬀ  ectively managing 
risk and ensuring good governance6.3.  Focus on high-quality strategic 
partnerships globally and nationally 
with organisations which share our vision, 
values and aspirations
6.4.  Diversify our provision by working with 
valued partners to prioritise, design and 
deliver programmes tailored to meet 
economic and social needs as well as 
market demand, locally, nationally 
and globally
6.5.  Intensify our focus on working in 
partnership to understand and shape 
local, national and international priorities 
and strengthen the impact of our 
research, knowledge exchange and 
entrepreneurial activities
  PARTNERSHIP 13
Strategy 2030 has been 
developed in consultation with 
staﬀ   and students, building 
on their prior engagement in 
deﬁ  ning our vision, values 
and behaviours.  
Our strategy describes the qualities that will 
characterise our success, and we will monitor our 
progress against these strategic ambitions through 
key performance indicators and qualitative measures. 
Equally, however, our success will be evidenced 
through our shared organisational aspirations, our 
culture, policies and processes and, fundamentally, 
the impact of our education, research, knowledge 
exchange and partnerships.Measuring 
our success
14 MEASURING OUR SUCCESS
Collectively, these performance measures and the 
milestones achieved through the period to 2030 will 
illustrate our progress against the following overarching 
indicators of success.
1.   We set and achieve ambitious targets for access, continuation, 
attainment and progression, enabling us to attract and 
support the success of a diverse range of talented students 
in sustainable numbers
2.  We are recognised by current and future colleagues as 
an inclusive employer of choicePeople
6.   Through meaningful and eﬀ  ective partnerships between 
academic and professional service staﬀ  , and with our students, 
all members of our University community enjoy 
an experience that is outstanding 
7.  Our partnerships advance our strategy, deliver mutual 
bene/f.shortits and amplify the impact each partner could 
achieve alonePartnership3.   Our campus is carbon neutral by 2027
4.  Our innovative education, research and knowledge exchange 
leads change that addresses global and local challenges and 
generates fair and sustainable solutions
5.   Our close collaboration with employers enables the seamless 
integration of education and training with regional and 
national workforce planningPlace
The success of Strategy 2030 will be reviewed regularly by the University 
Leadership Team and the University Council. The seven overarching 
indicators of success will form the framework for focused scrutiny of 
progress against the strategy’s key themes.
  MEASURING OUR SUCCESS 15
HULL UNIVERSITY BUSINESS SCHOOL
THE LOGISTICS INSTITUTE
University of Hull, 
Cottingham Road, 
Hull, HU6 7RX, 
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0)1482 346311UniOfHull
UniversityOfHull
universityo/f.shorthull
www.hull.ac.uk
