Strategic
Principles
Research and Innovation
Teaching and Learning
Equal Opportunities, Diversity and Sustainability 
Academic Career Development 
Organizational Culture and Staff Development
Cooperation with Third Parties and Internationalization 
Academic Medicine Zurich (UMZH) and One Health
University and Society 
Infrastructure and Administration
Finances_01
_02
_03
_04
_05
_06
_07
_08
_09
_10
New Strategic 
Principles of UZH
An organization that is successful today must not forget 
to prepare for the future. A practicable strategy is the cor -
nerstone of any organization’s ability to anticipate and 
actively shape current developments.
Mark Twain is believed to have once said, “If you don’t 
know where you want to go, don’t be surprised if you 
arrive somewhere else.” The University of Zurich knows 
exactly where it stands today and where it wants to be in 
the future. With its new Strategic Principles, UZH has 
laid the foundation for maintaining and expanding its 
leading role in research and teaching.
The Board of the University, the Executive Board of the 
University and the Extended Executive Board of the  
University have developed the new principles in a  
collaborative effort. Their work has given rise to a com -
pelling strategy. Compelling, because it is based on broad 
consensus and joint decision-making. It is a solution born 
from dialogue and discussions with all relevant target 
groups, with the aim of shaping UZH’s success in the 
long term.
This strategy is intended to have an effect internally as 
well as externally: Within the university, it represents a 
commitment. The Strategic Principles act as a cohesive 
guide for the whole UZH community. Outside of the  
university, the principles exemplify and bring to life the 
university’s high academic standards.The operational measures derived from these principles 
must now be just as compelling. The starting point is 
promising: With its excellent research and high-quality 
teaching, UZH ranks among the best universities in the 
world and UZH graduates are in high demand.
The Strategic Principles will make sure that this contin-
ues to be the case in the future. While these goals are 
ambitious, I am confident that UZH will live up to them.
 
Silvia Steiner 
Director of the Department of Education of the Canton   
of Zurich and President of the Board of the University
A Compass 
for UZH
The University of Zurich is the largest and most diverse 
university in Switzerland, with over 26,000 students from 
all over the world and more than 9,000 employees in a 
variety of roles and disciplines. This diversity is one of 
the University of Zurich’s defining characteristics, and 
also one of its main strengths. For the different perspec-
tives and subject areas to coexist, however, there must be 
a reliable “compass” that can show the way when it 
comes to answering fundamental questions.
At UZH, this is achieved through our mission statement 
as well as the Strategic Goals 2020. The latter will soon 
expire, which is why last year a working group of the 
Extended Executive Board of the University, chaired by 
the Deputy President, developed a new set of Strategic 
Principles for UZH. 
The new Strategic Principles were approved by the Board 
of the University on 30 September 2019. They consist of 
10 points that sum up the central ideas and values with 
which UZH identifies. The principles complement UZH’s 
mission statement by focusing on areas that are particu-larly significant from a strategic viewpoint. In addition, 
concrete measures to implement the university-wide 
strategy have been defined in a priority program of the 
Executive Board of the University.
Excellent research, innovation and academic career devel-
opment are core elements of the Strategic Principles.  
Our collaboration with external partners as well as our 
organizational and management culture also receive spe-
cial attention. The Strategic Principles highlight the 
importance of cooperation and competition when it 
comes to research and teaching, and express UZH’s 
self-image as a successful institution on the national and 
international stage. At the same time, the University is 
committed to equal opportunities, diversity and sustain-
ability, and embraces a culture of cooperation and mutual 
respect. 
With its Strategic Principles, UZH has created a pivotal 
tool that sets the stage for future developments and  
supports leaders and managers at all levels in continuing 
to lead the way.  
 
 
Gabriele Siegert 
Deputy President of the University of Zurich
_01 
Research
and Innovation 1. Research 
and Innovation
UZH is part of the international research community, in 
which it plays a leading role. We facilitate and foster 
excellent research that refines and develops our existing 
fields and opens up promising and innovative research 
approaches. In doing so, UZH is committed to embracing 
diverse and equal research cultures, inter- and transdisci -
plinarity, independent and free research as well as close 
national and international cooperation. Our professorial 
appointments are based on these standards.
UZH’s research is focused on achieving outstanding 
quality through successful research work that is long-
term, sustainable and innovative. These achievements 
range from developments in basic research to innovations 
from which society, business and politics can benefit.
02_ 2. Teaching 
and Learning
UZH’s degree programs enable students to gain a com-
prehensive and sound academic education; our teaching 
is of high didactic quality, grounded in research and ori-
ented toward the acquisition of skills at all academic  
levels. UZH encourages students and staff to be curious, 
intellectually flexible and to develop a thirst for lifelong 
learning. We also expect our students to demonstrate a 
high degree of initiative and commitment. Students at 
UZH are supported to be responsible members of society 
and prepared for a variety of professional careers.
The quality of teaching and studying at UZH is evaluated 
on a regular basis and suitable measures are taken to  
continuously improve teaching quality. We aim to be 
inclusive and foster an open dialogue.
At UZH, we believe higher education should be accessi -
ble. We make information about studying at UZH  
available in a clear and barrier-free manner, and, where 
appropriate, in several languages. We provide an envi-
ronment that supports the compatibility of studies, work 
and family life, and offer advice and support to students; 
we also encourage our students to gain international 
experience and engage in extracurricular activities.
Teaching
and Learning
_03 3. Equal Opportunities,  
Diversity and Sustainability
Equal opportunities, diversity and sustainability are core 
values of university life and the responsibility of all  
organizational units and members of UZH. The Univer -
sity of Zurich commits itself to implementing the relevant 
policies and recommendations in an effective and effi -
cient manner.
In particular, this includes embracing forms of organiza-
tion that are in line with the core values of UZH and 
maintaining ethical standards and cultural values. We 
recognize and reaffirm social justice for individuals and 
groups – taking into account the current needs of society 
as well as those of future generations.
Diversity andEqual Opportunities,
Sustainability
04_ 4. Academic  
Career Development
UZH supports junior academics at all stages of their 
careers. We encourage students to become familiar with 
research and teaching processes at an early stage, and 
provide the best possible conditions to enable our stu-
dents and scholars to complete academic qualification 
work efficiently and to a high scholarly level. The rele-
vant ordinances and regulations are in line with profes-
sional academic standards. UZH supports junior scholars 
in assuming responsibility for their own careers, and 
makes sure that dependencies on supervisors do not have 
any negative consequences for their development.
UZH also facilitates and promotes diverse academic 
career paths and takes into account equal opportunities 
and compatibility with skill profiles, family responsibili-
ties and different life stages. This includes providing 
challenging and rewarding academic career options that 
do not necessarily follow the traditional professorship 
pathway.
CareerAcademic
Development
_05 5. Organizational Culture 
and Staff Development
At UZH, a balance is struck between leadership and  
participation. Leaders and managers at UZH fulfill their 
leadership responsibilities by taking strategically sound 
decisions and ensuring that they are implemented.
We embrace a motivating approach and a participatory 
culture of mutual appreciation. Members of UZH, in  
particular those in leadership and managerial roles, foster 
respectful communication and cultivate a constructive 
practice of giving feedback. In so doing, we facilitate 
non-discriminatory participation and create a climate of 
loyalty and solidarity that welcomes new ideas and con -
structive discussions.
UZH takes suitable measures in all areas to improve 
working conditions on an ongoing basis. In particular,  
we support our employees in acquiring skills that will 
equip them for the future. Our staff development takes 
into account UZH’s goals and the professional qualifica -
tions and personal development of its staff in equal mea -
sure. UZH avoids all forms of discrimination in hiring 
and promotion processes.
Culture andOrganizational 
Staff Development
06_ 6. Cooperation with Third 
Parties and Internationalization
UZH maintains strategic partnerships and cooperates 
with leading research and education institutions. UZH 
has positioned itself as a successful institution on the 
international stage, and attracts researchers and students 
with its research, academic career development, teaching 
and studying opportunities. As Switzerland’s largest 
comprehensive university, UZH plays a key role in  
shaping the Swiss higher education sector and maintains 
close ties to strategically significant local partners, in par -
ticular ETH Zurich, the universities of teacher education 
and the universities of applied sciences. At an interna-
tional, national and regional level, UZH aims to achieve 
the right balance of collaboration, coordination and  
competition.
UZH also maintains partnerships with stakeholders from 
the general public, politics and the private sector. Here, 
we understand our role as that of an expert organization 
fostering scholarly reflection, innovation and active 
knowledge transfer. We draw up initiatives to promote 
the knowledge transfer skills of our members.
UZH is committed to high ethical standards in all its 
dealings with third parties.
 Third Parties andCooperation with
Internationalization
_07 7. Academic Medicine  
Zurich (UMZH) and One Health
UZH is committed to ensuring excellent medical and 
health care for the public through its research and  
teaching. We are developing the medicine of the future in 
close cooperation with our Academic Medicine Zurich 
(UMZH) partner institutions (UniversityHospital Zurich, 
University Children’s Hospital Zurich, Balgrist Univer -
sity Hospital, University Hospital of Psychiatry Zurich 
and ETH Zurich), our partner and teaching hospitals, as 
well as through the teaching practices of the Faculty of 
Medicine.
UZH follows the transdisciplinary One Health approach, 
which adopts a holistic view of the health of humans, 
animals and ecosystems. All faculties contribute to this 
approach, since the notion of health covers not only 
physical but also psychological, social and other aspects, 
and requires the involvement of all areas of society.
Zurich (UMZH)Academic Medicine
and One Health
08_ 8. University 
and Society 
UZH is an active participant in a vibrant, pluralistic soci-
ety. We embrace and encourage cooperation between  
academia and all areas of social life, namely civil society, 
politics, business and culture. We shape the public  
discourse in particular by sharing our research findings. 
In the process, we address socially relevant topics and 
confront the social, cultural, economic and ecological 
challenges of the present.
UZH raises society’s awareness that diverse, free aca-
demic research and teaching are an important part of 
maintaining and developing a democratic, constitutional 
society that is committed to fundamental rights and 
international cooperation. The same applies to the com-
plex cultural principles underpinning society.
University
and Society 
_09 9. Infrastructure 
and Administration
UZH provides efficient infrastructure and administrative 
conditions that meet high international quality standards 
for research and innovation as well as for teaching and 
learning. Our site development strategy takes into account 
the needs of the departments, institutes, faculties, Central 
Services units and representative bodies at UZH in close 
cooperation with the relevant partners.
Technology platforms, libraries and digital services  
provide broad access to information and state-of-the-art 
technology. This benefits research, teaching and innova-
tion, and reduces the workload required for administrative 
tasks.
Infrastructure
and Administration
10_ 10. Finances  
In accordance with its founding principles, UZH views 
itself as an institution established “by the will of the  
people”. We are aware that public funding is a vital  
component of free research and teaching, recognizing  
our particular responsibility to use resources in a tar -
geted, economical and sustainable way.
In addition, UZH seeks to diversify its financial base by 
acquiring competitive third-party funding and strength-
ening the UZH Foundation. Here, too, the protection of 
academic freedom and the responsible handling of 
resources are a matter of course.
When raising third-party funds, UZH maintains its full 
autonomy. Moreover, we ensure transparency with 
regard to the source and intended use of third-party 
funds. Information about UZH’s sources of funding, any 
conditions attached to the awarding of third-party funds 
as well as any outside professorial activities and interests 
is disclosed to the public.
Finances
Publishing Information
© 2019  
University of Zurich
Images:
Frank Brüderli (Cover picture, portraits,  07, 08)
Marc Latzel (01)
Ursula Meisser (02, 03)
Meinrad Schade (04, 05)
Johnny Greig, iStock (06)
Herzog & de Meuron, Visualization of the FORUM UZH (09)
Melanie Lindner, Infographic (10)
Printed in Switzerland
