VILNIUS
UNIVERSITY
STRATEGIC PLAN
FOR 2021–2025
- 2The span of the Vilnius University community is extremely 
wide. It unites those who study, teach, research, administer, 
as well as the members of the society who have received their 
education or their first career impetus here. The strategy is 
a document of this community where we state in which di-
rections we want to further develop our University, how the 
University will participate in the life of Lithuania and Europe. 
The main goals are the internal mobilization of the communi-
ty, fostering its diversity, the growth of a significant freedom 
of choice for students, the unfolding of each of our calling as 
a meaningful realization of responsibility to the society and 
the state. Our potential would increase if we better integrat-
ed science and studies, discovered new interdisciplinary links 
in the process of knowledge and innovation, and consolidat-
ed the resources of faculties, institutes, centers and common 
affairs units. The people of the University teach and learn, 
research and solve problems based on the in-depth knowl-
edge instead of simply following their job descriptions. The 
expected results and indicators are only guidelines, we can-
not plan everything precisely, and therefore we will monitor 
the progress and discuss action approaches along the way. 
We strive for a national leadership in all academic fields and 
are able to be among the top 400 universities in the world, 
adhering to the highest standards as understood in the in-
ternational community of every scientific field. This requires 
a constructive dialogue with the public authorities, so that 
the funding of science and studies would allow for the plan-
ning of a long-term perspective and a broader understand-
ing could prevail that the well-being of the society can only 
be achieved by strengthening people’s cognitive and creative 
powers. First and foremost, however, our joint ambition and 
involvement is needed.
Vilnius University Rector 
Rimvydas PetrauskasA NOTE FROM
THE RECTOR
2
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS, 
LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES 
AND THEIR INDICATORS
1.  
2. Collaborative
3. SustainableGraduates capable of solving societal problems
Research of a high international level
Growing influence in the society and the state
The pedagogy of the 21st century1.1
1.41.31.2
Interdisciplinary and international research and studies 2.1
Motivated employees and engaged students
Infrastructure that meets the future needs
Financial growth through income diversification 3.1
3.2
3.3
3Creating the society and the state
1. Strategic direction – CREATING THE SOCIETY AND THE STATE
4LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATOR
1.1.  Graduates capable of solving
        societal problems1.1.1.   The study impact assessment on careers 
          (a graduate survey)
As we foster the graduates who will create our future society, we will create conditions for such 
student development, which is enabled by the change of the attitude towards oneself and the 
world arising from a deep subject knowledge. Therefore, in the study process we will emphasize 
a more active, individual and interdisciplinary learning based on scientific cognition methods, 
strengthen the development of core competencies and measure the career changes of gradu-
ates within five years after graduation by surveying them.
LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
1.2.  
By focusing on a national leadership and international recognition, we will create conditions 
to ensure the prospect of high-level research and the strengthening of scientific potential by 
preparing and implementing development programs for individual fields/areas of science. 
To increase the international competitiveness of research we will use the best practices to 
educate young researchers (doctoral and postdoctoral), strengthen the competencies of re-
searchers to successfully participate and lead in international project activities and network -
ing, promote interdisciplinary research integration, create an international research environ-
ment by bringing together highly qualified researchers.Research of a high international 
levelAn increase in the comparative assessment 
of the quality evaluation of scientific fields 
(a higher evaluation in 2023: no less than 
10 fields evaluated no less than 4–5 out of 
5 – 60% of fields).1.2.1.
1.2.2.
1.2.3.International recognition of research: an 
increase in the number of top-level interna-
tional research grants (ERC/MSCA IF/Coor -
dinated Horizon Europe projects) (50%).
The growth of the share of foreign resear- 
chers working at VU for at least a year from 
the total number of academic staff (50%).
5LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
1.3.   
We will seek leadership in academia and public debate through critical reflections on key is-
sues and expert solutions. We will consistently implement forms of expert participation in the 
formation of the state policy. By contributing to overcoming the current challenges, we will 
create an interdisciplinary research and study environment focused on the implementation 
of the sustainable development goals – health and well-being, high quality education and 
climate change prevention. In parallel, we will further the research of Lithuanian studies as a 
scientific knowledge of the totality of Lithuania.
Another important dimension of our responsibility to the society is scientific communication, 
which shapes the public opinion on the basis of a solid and reliable knowledge. We will realize 
the need to not only persuasively inform about the works of scientists, but also to strengthen 
the public understanding that a scientific knowledge and critical reflection are fundamental 
and its practical value is tangible. We will use the principles of open science and various 
forms of dissemination for the availability of research results. We will strengthen our interna-
tional reputation in order to establish Vilnius University as a place of science and studies on 
the European and global university map.
By attracting motivated students, we will expand activities with schools and encourage the 
active choice of studies as a path of personal development based on a scientific knowledge. 
For postgraduate students, we will provide more opportunities to transform a deep scientific 
knowledge into ambitious professional goals.
LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATOR
1.4.   The pedagogy of the 21st century 1.4.1.  
With two national teacher training centers in Vilnius and Šiauliai implementing their aca-
demic potential and with subject faculties getting involved in teacher education, we will im-
plement our national leadership in pedagogical research and studies, assuming ideological 
responsibility for the development of education in Lithuania and creating preconditions for a 
21st century school – an educational process that meets the needs of the future society. We 
will implement the concept of teacher training, improvement of their competencies and de-
velopment of professional qualifications based on international research and the experience 
of advanced education systems.Growing influence in the society 
and the state1.3.1.
1.3.2.
1.3.3.
1.3.4.The impact of experts on public policy 
formation (the qualitative evaluation indi-
cator)
A significant growth of scientific communi-
cation
Attracting motivated students to all levels 
of study (first choice to the first and second 
cycles, best graduates to doctoral studies)
Involvement with the implementation of 
Sustainable Development Goals (Ranking 
and number of activities)
The areas under evaluation of the field of 
pedagogy valued at least 4 points out of 5 
in the external evaluation of 2024.
2. Strategic direction – COLLABORATIVE
6LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
2.1.  
By committing to ensuring the ability of University graduates to operate in a global environ-
ment, we will create conditions for all students to engage in global exchanges of scientific ideas 
through physical or virtual mobility, as well as an international subject content. The interna-
tionality of studies at the University will be developed by increasing the internationality of the 
study environment and by implementing internationalization plans of each study program.
For the internationalization of research and studies, we will use the opportunities provided by 
Arqus the European University Alliance – an innovative and open laboratory for institutional 
learning. We will create long-term, sustainable structures and mechanisms of close inter-insti-
tutional cooperation in the fields of studies, research and social partnership.Interdisciplinary and international 
research and studies2.1.1.
2.1.2.Opportunities for all students to gain inter -
national study experience (the indicator of 
internationality of the studies)
The impact of Arqus Alliance Partnership 
on VU studies and science (the number of 
community members involved, joint science 
and study initiatives)
3. Strategic direction – SUSTAINABLE
7LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATOR
3.1.   
In order to strengthen the involvement and well-being of employees and students, important 
projects and initiatives to foster the University culture will receive the necessary support, differ -
ent opinions will be heard and discussions will be encouraged. We will put all the effort to make 
Vilnius University the best employer in terms of adequate remuneration, prestige, freedom and 
social security. We will develop and implement academic career models that correspond to the 
diversity of vocations and abilities, and will provide various opportunities for employee devel-
opment primarily through our intellectual potential (“The University teaches the University”).
We will encourage student employment at the University and will pay greater attention to the 
efficiency of administrative processes, the strengthening of relations between general affairs 
units and academic departments, and the comfortable and appropriate work and study envi-
ronment from a social, cultural and aesthetic point of view.
LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
3.2.   
We will continue to concentrate academic activities on University campuses so that the up-
dated infrastructure ensures the development of various scientific fields and the conditions 
for interdisciplinary cooperation. We will improve the quality of services to the academic 
community by basing the relations of employee groups on University values and mutual re-
spect. We will create and implement a workplace standard, taking into account the essential 
needs of employees and the development of information technology.
In response to the current ecological agenda, we will develop a Green University model (all 
infrastructure projects will be assessed for the environmental impact, substantially reducing 
operational emissions) and develop environmentally relevant academic activities in various 
fields of research, generating a new knowledge and educating the public.Motivated employees and 
engaged students3.1.1. Increased evaluation of job and studies 
involvement as well as satisfaction with the 
organization, work, departments compared 
to the evaluation of 2020 (Job involvement 
– 4.22; the total average of the evaluation 
of satisfaction with the organization, work, 
departments – 4)
Infrastructure that meets the 
future needs 3.2.1.
3.2.2.
3.2.3.Development of the Saulėtekis and Santara 
VU campuses, HSS infrastructure.
Improvement of the effectiveness of opera-
tional support (community satisfaction with 
operational support at least 4 out of 5).
Green University: (50% emission reduction; 
research and education).
8LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE INDICATOR
3.3.  Financial growth through
         income diversification3.3.1.   
We will contribute to the economic, social and cultural development of the country, the cre-
ation of a high value-added economy with science-based solutions. In order to diversify and 
grow our income, we will promote a wide range of cooperation between science and busi-
ness, the public sector, the commercialization of science, and the establishment of innovative 
start-ups. We will increase the supply of R&D services created at the University. In line with 
the University’s educational mission, we will create a comprehensive lifelong learning center.A change of 25% in the revenue from R&D 
solutions and services and lifelong learning 
activities compared to the previous five-
year period.

