 Annex to Resolution no. 159/L/2021 of the WUT 
Senate of 22 December 2021  
        
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY  
OF THE WARSAW UNIVERSITY 
OF TECHNOLOGY  
UNTIL 2030        
 
 
2   
 
From the Rector  
  
 
The development strategy is a key document outlin ing fields of operation for the Warsaw  University 
of Technology  for the next decade. It presents the vision of a university of the future , defines its mission  
and lays down the basic values the members of its community follow. It also lists strategic aims  
in all areas of operation , complemented with operational goals and planned  actions leading towards 
their achievement.  
The strategy we adopted for the period  2021 -2030 includes the continuation  of a number 
of  actions laid down in the document “Development s trategy of the Warsaw University  of Technology 
until 2020”, adopted by the Warsaw University of Technology Senate on 23 February  2011.  In addition, 
it covers a number  of new elements adapting the operation of the University  to a dynamically changing 
enviro nment .  
Development of the strategy  was preceded by a series of in -depth analyses, the results of which 
were laid down in the form of a SWOT analysis, pointing to the University’s strengths and weaknesses, 
as well as opportunities and threats, which are or may be brought  about by internal and  external 
factors.  
The document was greatly influence d by two factors of global impact – the SARS -CoV-2 pandemic 
and more and more visible hazards and civilisation, such as adverse climate change, environmental  
pollution harming  the world or problems conne cted with aging societies. They have made us aware  
of the key role of research, but also of social responsibility of the world of science. With this in mind, 
the list of strategic research areas includes, among others, “Healthy and sustainable living 
envi ronment” and “Sustainable industry, materials and manufacturing  processes”. The pandemic also 
showed the key role of education in shaping a responsible society that would believe in scientific 
achievements . 
Education  is an element of the mission of the War saw University  of Technology, which  
is as  important as research; great attention is paid to this area. We strive towards the status  
of a  European education centre – a University open to students from all over the world, teaching 
in  a  modern and effic ient way, with a large number of project -based  courses  and a strong connection 
between  education and research. We are planning to set up new study programmes, connected with 
priority research areas and with the needs of the social and economic environment , but also 
interdisciplinary and interfaculty programmes. We are going to develop collaboration with leading 
European technical universities, within the initiative European Universities, and with the best 
universities from other places, as well as extend ing our educational offer in English, with the aim 
of  opening up the University to foreign students , as well as of giving our students an opportunity 
to  pursue part of their study programme at renown ed foreign universities.  
3  We are hoping to achieve the position of a leading Polish and European centre, which provides 
innovative knowledge and shapes trends of development  of the technology of the future. This requires 
constant contact with cutting -edge  technologies and following  the needs arising in a dynamically 
evolving environment . This is not possible without constant cooperation with the surroundings ,  
as well as with renown ed world research centres. Such collaboration, as well as developing 
mechanisms to  support innovative  undertakings is a vital element of our development strategy.  
The Warsaw University of Technology, striving to achieve the status of an important European  
and global research and education centre, clearly perceives its role also as a significant element  
of the local ecosystem of innovation and education. Therefore, we work on tightening   relations with 
Warsaw and with Mazovia by developing cooperation with local authorit ies and institutions  
of the public sector and companies, as well as on integration an d cooperation of Warsaw universities.  
We want the University to be a friendly workplace so a lot of  attention is paid in  the  Development  
Strategy to facilitating  the management of the University  and its resources. The  aim is to create   
a modern and efficient organization  caring for its staff and infrastructure.  
The W arsaw University of Technology is strong thanks to various competences of the research  
and teaching staff. Using this potential requires integration  of the efforts of teams from various  units 
and academic disciplines ; therefore, development of mechanisms that motivate such collaboration  
will be a priority for the coming years. It is of special importance to creat e an efficient s ystem  
of  research and teaching cooperation with the Universi ty Branch in Płock.  
2020 was the year of great changes at the Warsaw University of Technology, which were 
the  result of the implementation of the Constitution for Science  and related  regulations, as well as  
the award of Research University status and becoming a member of the ENHANCE alliance of European 
universities. Growth  was also stimulated by social changes caused by dynamic populari sation of new 
technologies. An unexpected but strong transformation  impulse were globa l social and economic 
changes caused by the pandemic. All this means  that on the day of adoption of the Development 
Strategy we have  an exceptional opportunity to make another significant development  leap 
by  reinforcing our position among the most prestig ious Universities, not only in Poland, but also 
in  Europe  and in the world.  
Following the words of Cyprian Kamil Norwid: “To measure the future  road, one needs to know 
where one started from” . Looking boldly ahead, we must  not forget the beautiful but som etimes very 
difficult history of the University  and almost 200 years of traditions  that shape our academic   
and University identity. Therefore, in th is decade of completion of the Development Strategy  we are 
also preparing to celebrate the 200th anniversary of technical university education in Warsaw  which  
started on 4 January 1826 with the opening of the Preparatory School for the Polytechnic Institute.  
The same respect for history and tradition prompts us to complement the Development Strategy 
of the Warsaw University of Technology until 2030 with a document of fundamental historical 
importance, i.e., the “Mission of the Warsaw University of Technology”, adopted on 13 December 2000 
and repeated in the document Development Strategy of the Warsaw University of Technology until 
2020, adopted by the Warsaw University of Technology Senate on 23 February 2011. Although we have 
decided to change the contents of the University Mission, due to radical changes in the world, we wish 
to emphasis e that the Mi ssion adopted in 2000 is a message  which is still vital  and up to date.  
    
  
4  When preparing the Development Strategy of the Warsaw University of Technology until 2030, 
we assumed that the document will:  
1. provide significant contents  – it should  not repea t widely known and accepted proposals, 
it  should aim at highlighting  the specificity of the University in its present situation;  
2. be based on values that bind  the University  – the values should be widely accepted 
and  present in each aspect  – from interpersonal  contacts, through teamwork, to external 
relations;  
3. be future -oriented  – the long tradition  of the University does not mean we should not look 
ahead; in fact , we should actively shape the future of the University;  
4. be reliable, goal -based  – plans will be made with  the assumption that the declarations  will be 
introduced in the foreseeable future. To make this proce ss more specific, we outline ambitious 
but real istic goals and measurable results  and specific mechanism s of operation;  
5. be understandable  – for all members  of the academic community;   
6. be regularly improved  – correcting a development plan is a natural process  in University life .    
  
We wish for the adopted Development Strategy of the Warsaw University of Technology until 
2030 to be  not only a document but above all  an inspiration for all of us to strive for the  constant 
improvement  and development of our University. The challenges  ahead of us re quire a systematic and 
well-thought -out transformation  which will be summed up at the beginning  of th e fourth decade 
of  the 21st century and will serve as the basis for the next Development Strategy of the Warsaw 
University of Technology.        
  
 
 
 
 
 
5   
 
 
CHARTER    
6  MISSION   
  
The Warsaw University of Technology follows the line of thought of Stanisław Staszic, by attempting 
to both  shape the mind and the attitudes of the members  of its whole community  equally . The research 
and teaching done at the Univers ity are always taken up with the intention of creat ing new socially 
useful values. This pertains both to tangible  effects of th e operation, cooperation standards , as well  as 
personal qualities of all persons connected with it. The results  of research and teaching of the Wars aw 
University  of Technology  are promoted with in its environment . The thinking created at the University  
should be used internally and externally , resp ecting the rights of its authors, but remaining open to the 
needs of the society.  
Not forgetting  about its great past and traditions, the Warsaw University  of Technology perceives 
its mission as a creative contribution to shaping the future  – through rese arch, development of new 
knowledge  and technologies  of the future and through shaping future generations.  
Acting  with social responsibility in mind, we are planning to concentrate our research on areas  
related to the greatest challenges  of civilisation  such as climate change, environmental pollution, 
diminishing  non-renewable resources , civilization diseases, epidemic hazards or the problem  of ag eing 
societies . These priorities  are in line with  the list of Sustainable Development Goals 2030, adopted   
by the UN countries in 2015.  
By shaping new generations, we wish  not only to provide knowledge  and skills at the highe st level, 
but first o f all shape bright people  who think creatively  and critica lly, who are intellectually 
independent and openly present  their opinions. We wish to equip them with creative curiosity  
of the world and professional passions, to teach them the practice  of ongoing learning  and to shape 
the  feeling of social responsibil ity and awareness of the impact on the future of the world.  
 
  
VISION 
  
  
The Warsaw University of Technology  of the future  is a reno wned and recognisa ble technical research 
university , which is  an attractive research and teaching centre in the European research space, 
conducting research  and providing  education  at world level. It participate s in shaping trends 
of  technolog ical development  and provides kn owledge and solutions for Polish and globa l industry. 
With social responsibility  in mind, it participates in searching for solutions related to global civilization  
threats. It educates co mpetent, creative and socially responsible staff members for science  
and industry of the future.  
The Warsaw Un iversity of Technology in 2030 is a well -managed European centre of research  
and  education, which recognizes and invests in people who are part of the academic community.  
The Warsaw University of Technology in 2030 is:  
1. a trend -setting University  in all f ields of activity : scientific discoveries , innovation 
in  cooperation with industry, outstanding creati vity, education, close links  with the local 
community  and promotion of science.  
  
7  2. a participation University , founded upon respect for University democracy, where everyone 
is  listened to, seeks compromise, respects other opinions  and takes inspiration from them.  
  
3. a friendly and efficient University , open, where with the help of  administration , 
in  an  environment  of consistent and secure IT systems, we complete  our tasks and passions  
in a congenial atmosphere .  
  
4. a beautiful University, boasting  the beauty of its historic al buildings, but also architecturally 
modern, with a clear structure of connected campuses, filled with cutting -edge technology, 
ecological, energy -saving, and user friendly.   
  
5. a research University , which provides new points of reference and becomes an in spiration  
for the economic and social environment , with a widely recognized research profile, investing 
in  talents and activity of researchers, providing conditions for making discoveries  and open 
to  international collaboration.  
  
6. a useful University  for companies and for business, with a profile of education and research 
relevant to the needs arising from economic and industrial growth of our country 
and  European partners.    
  
7. a European University , international and making a significant contribution  to the development 
of the European Research Area and the European Higher Education Area.  
  
  
  
VALUES  
  
The Warsaw University of Technology  in its operation follows the code of cultural and ethical values 
that shape the authority of science and scientists. Its basis are the classical academic values: Truth, 
Wisdom, Good and Beauty , as well as the collection of ethical va lues such as: Freedom,  Righteousness , 
Dignity, Justice, Tolerance, Equality, Loyalty, Solidarity , Kindness . In addition to them, we follo w 
instrumental values  such as :  
  
Excellence:  Striving to excellence in all areas of operation of the University – research, 
teaching, coope ration with partners, operation of teams and student 
research groups, close links  with the local community  and promotion 
of  science.  
  
Openness :  Being ready to interact with other academic institutions, business and social 
partners, as well as to accept constructive criticism, to analyse problems 
which may arise and to take up challenges.   
  
Responsibility:   Responsibility of the unit, group and  institution for short -term and long -term 
effects of their actions in the area of research and education, as well as respect 
8  of nature, social responsibility of science, relations with the local community  
and key stakeholders (both internal and external).   
 
Variety:   Taking into consideration and accepting all aspects in which  community 
members  may differ, i.e., differences in age, gender, race, nationality, ability, 
education, knowledge , experience and competence, personality, beliefs, 
system of  values  and identity .   
Courage : Courage in taking up research, regardless of  the eventuality of failure. 
Boldness to take up challenges resulting from even the most difficult 
problems, which are significant in social and civili sation terms.    
  
Spirit of cooperation:   
  Ability to create wide, varie d, interdisciplinary and complementary teams – 
it  is not possible without creating and fostering a culture of cooperation 
beyond the University walls, mutual understanding and respect,  
as well as  acquiring knowledge from partners.   
  
    
  
9    
 
 
 
STRATEGIC   
IMPACT  
AREAS      
10  Warsaw University of Technology has almost 200 years of tradition in education and research serving 
society. This is only possible thanks to the highest level of competence of scientific teams, able to pass 
on their knowledge and skills to the next generat ion of students and doctoral students. Thanks to this, 
graduates of our university are excellently qualified specialists, appreciated at home and abroad, 
working for leading companies, institutions, and universities. From the Warsaw University 
of  Technolo gy one acquires respect for science and craftsmanship, boldness in designing new solutions 
and determination in pursuing goals. We educate experts who, irrespective of their field of activity 
and  position, possess the ability to think critically and solve  complex problems, independence 
of  action, but also the ability to work in a team and in an international setting.  
The areas of scientific activity of Warsaw University of Technology research teams must constantly 
evolve, following the challenges created  by the changing world, and the content of teaching must 
follow these changes. The range of competences and scientific interests of our researchers is extremely 
wide, covering almost entirely the area of scientific disciplines in the field of technical sci ences, 
but  also some areas of sciences and fields of humanities and social sciences. Analysing the research 
challenges created by the contemporary world and confronting them with the potential 
of  the  university, we need to define a catalogue of strategi c areas of our research and teaching 
activities. A prelude to such a decision was the identification of priority research areas submitted  
in  the ministerial competition, the beneficiaries of which were awarded the status of a Research 
University. We defi ned seven such areas in which we already have significant achievements.  
In strategic planning, however, we should also boldly and consistently enter new areas and build 
competence in them. With a sense of social responsibility, we should also join the eff orts  
of the scientific community in combating global threats and civilisation problems. Following this 
concept, we have defined four Strategic Impact Areas that should be intensively supported  
in the coming years. These include:  
1. Scientific foundations: nature and the apparatus of its description;  
2. Information and the digital environment;  
3. A healthy, sustainable living environment;  
4. Sustainable industry, materials and manufacturing processes.  
  
The definition of strategic impact areas is aimed at strengthening the university's internal scientific 
and  research and development potential, but also the competitive advantage and economic potential 
of Mazovia. The strategic impact areas are not separa te - they are closely interrelated and form 
a  coherent whole. For example, Area 2 – Information and the digital environment is linked  
to the digitalisation of industry, automation of processes (physical and virtual), the area of big data, 
artificial inte lligence, including machine learning, and sustainable industry, and thus including Area 4. 
Both of  these strategic impact areas are linked to each other through Economy 4.0, often presented 
as  a  cyber -physical systems integrator. The foundation of the w hole is the apparatus of nature 
description.  
  
Scientific foundations: nature and the apparatus of its description  
We create a solid scientific foundation. Since the Warsaw University of Technology was founded, 
we  have operated under the belief that adaptation and resilience are key skills in a rapidly changing 
world, full of challenges and new technologies, in the face of unforeseen difficulties. It is also  important 
11  for engineers and professionals to be able to develop, self-educate and improve professionally. Such 
attitudes can only be built on a solid foundation of knowledge in the area of fundamental sciences. 
Therefore, it is essential to conduct both t heoretical and experimental research into fundamental laws 
and phenomena, including the development of computational and measurement methods. 
Cooperation with other centres, including participation in international research projects  
and the employment of outstanding foreign scientists, is not negligible in this area. The knowledge  
and skills developed during the study of scientific foundations will be useful in the future for  solving 
specific problems, also in areas far removed from classical engineering and science. This allows us  
to train professionals who can find their way in any profession thanks to a solid foundation of analytical 
thinking, awakened creativity and developed digital competences.   
We also regard social competence as an important foun dation. We are convinced that in order 
to  achieve harmonisation of socio -civilisational processes, we must equally harmoniously combine  
the research inquiries of technical and social sciences. There are no 'two truths' about the world  
and man: technical truth and social truth. There is one truth that describes the latest technologies, 
designed ethically and for man, through the prism of their social utility. Similarly, it is impossible  
to imagine two cultures: technical and social. Moreover, in order not  only to educate the mind but also 
to shape attitudes, it is essential to implement harmonious interaction and interpenetration  
of technical and  social sciences in the research and teaching conducted at the Warsaw University  
of Technology.  
Innovation in  education supported by digital resources and repositories. The Warsaw University 
of  Technology is a melting pot of knowledge and work: from state -of-the-art laboratories, workshops 
and research centres at the University's headquarters, to extensive digit al resources and processes 
and  repositories for open science. The engineering education programme is based on interdisciplinary, 
cross -sectoral projects. The modern educational methods implemented at the Research University 
are  based on experienced teach ing staff using innovative educational methods and on partnerships 
with the University's external stakeholders (socio -economic environment). In response 
to  the  challenges of the world in pandemic, developed blended learning formulas are implemented, 
effectively integrating remote technologies into teaching . Innovative  learning prepares 
for  the  contemporary work model: problem solving taking into account the needs and expectations 
of the target audience, in project work mode : cascading or agile, regardless of the scope and time 
horizon of the project.  
 
Information and digital environment  
Data -driven development.  Nowadays, civilisation is producing an ever -increasing amount of data that 
can be digitised, integrated, analysed and processed. The innovative economy is based on 
the  production and sharing of data, in an ever -growing network of interconnections and 
dependencies. The increasing use of cloud solutions, the Internet of Things and big data analytics, 
allowing real -time management of processes, demonstrates the usefulness of solutions for all sectors 
of the economy: 4.0 industry companies, smart city solut ions, government, the financial sector and 
telecommunications. In the combination of digital interconnected vessels, security and data protection 
are of particular importance, e.g., the search for a balance between open resources and data privacy, 
intell ectual property and know -how protection. A separate challenge is the integration of new data 
management solutions into existing systems, which should flexibly expand and adapt according 
to  changing conditions and needs in building sustainable competitive advantage through innovation. 
12  It is the element of the Warsaw University of Technology's mission to be part of the current of these 
activities.   
 
The digital revolution is inevitable, and the Warsaw University of Technology is prepared for it. 
The  unive rsity participates in the digital transformation as an active partner of change: it designs, tests 
and implements new solutions and educates the next generation of digital innovators. Warsaw 
University of Technology experts provide new solutions in the are as of data analytics, data 
management and data flows, data systems architecture, data sources and data storage methods. 
Leading topics include the digital economy, cyber security, artificial intelligence, including machine 
learning, and the Internet of Thi ngs. Effective use of digitisation enables the development of open 
science with respect for copyright, a culture of cooperation and sharing of knowledge, a culture 
of  participatory innovation and value co -creation. Legal and ethical responsibility for the  digital 
environment in which we live and co -create are important challenges. At the same time, the pandemic 
has made us aware of the need not only to nurture a sense of community, including the academic 
community, but also to create new patterns and tools  for working and learning remotely, ensuring 
both security and efficiency.  
A healthy, sustainable living environment  
Sustainable living environment.  Innovative solutions are only valuable if they ensure the sustainable 
development of society, with respec t for the environment. The Warsaw University of Technology 
supports the development of environmentally friendly technologies, taking into account the urgent 
needs related to climate change, pollution and energy sources. Concern for the state  
of the enviro nment and the health of present and future generations drives the development  
of knowledge and innovation, bringing us closer to a closed loop economy. Innovative solutions  
to support the  development of sustainable cities, resource efficiency, ensuring safety and health  
are leading research trends with a real impact on humanity's living environment.  
In parallel to supporting technology, we are developing research dedicated to the society of the future 
and the sustainability of  organisations.  
People are the most important.  Today's challenges are largely complex social problems. Even the best 
interdis ciplinary research will not help solve the growing difficulties in the areas of urbanisation, 
mobility, ageing society, social polarisation (spatial, economic, educational). Only inclusive processes: 
value co -creation and participatory decision -making, bas ed on dialogue between all groups involved, 
will enable effective solutions to be found. We are also searching for them by focusing on the areas 
of  public management, social logistics and labour market 4.0.   
Sustainability supported by an innovation ecos ystem.  A research university is not only a space 
conducive to the creation of new ideas, but a place where valuable initiatives receive support 
on  the  threshold of business development. At the Warsaw University of Technology, the results 
of  research wor k are the basis for the processes of creating technological and social innovations that 
serve the development of the Polish economy and a sustainable living environment. It is a place  
for the  incubation of innovative ideas, start -ups, university technolo gy spin -off companies, modern 
forms of entrepreneurship and cluster initiatives.  
13  Sustainable industry, materials and manufacturing processes  
Leading R&D. Sustainable industrial development is the promotion of high -tech products and services, 
taking into account the challenges of a circular economy. New materials and manufacturing processes 
play a special role here, which is why it is so important to seek innovative solutions in terms of material 
characteristics, properties, processing methods, recyclabili ty and environmental impact. The Warsaw 
University of Technology supports the development of modern manufacturing processes at every 
stage: from design, through testing, to implementation. One of the forms of implementing new 
technologies is technological entrepreneurship, developed in research and teaching, which  
is an  important component of our graduates' competences.  
Needs and expectations drive innovation.  New patterns of use of objects and services, where using 
is  more important than owning, motivate new insights into design. End-users  of new solutions expect 
to be included as partners in shaping the target form of a product or service so that it has spec ific 
functionalities, is safe and is accessible. They require manufacturers to be environmentally responsible, 
forcing them to rethink the entire life cycle of a product: quality, sustainability, minimal environmental 
impact, the use of innovative material s, local resources, responsible production process  
and the  necessity to recycle. As a result, they are also forcing an evolution in the methods, models 
and  management philosophies of companies, steering them towards humanocentrism, sharing 
and  co-respo nsibility. This way of thinking must accompany all actions taken at our university.  
Sustainable human -machine collaboration.  New technologies are changing not only companies, 
improving organisational processes, permanently striving for digital maturity, b ut also people's lives. 
Progressive automation is changing the situation on the labour market - taking away repetitive  
and monotonous activities from employees, it provides opportunities for development in creative 
work: designing processes, managing them  and monitoring process and product quality, as well as 
ensuring occupational safety. An employee of an innovative company is able to find his or her feet both 
in  the  independent execution of the assigned task and in cooperation with a diverse, internati onal 
and inter -sectoral group of partners. These are precisely the requirements that graduates 
of  the  Warsaw University of Technology must meet.  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
14     
 
 
 
SCIENCE  
OUR  TARGETS:  
 Scientific excellence  
 High visibility of ongoing research   
 Effective mechanisms to support research work  
 Internationalisation and intensive international cooperation  
 Active and effective cooperation with industry and the economy  
 
THE ACHIEVEMENT OF TARGETS  WILL BE MEASURED BY:   
o The number of publications in the top decile of the citation count   
o Field -Weighted Citation Impact parameter for the Warsaw University  
of Technology in the Scopus database   
o The position in leading international rankings    
o The number of international grants  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15   
 
 
The Warsaw University of Technology is home to several hundred research teams, actively 
collaborating in national and international research projects, development and industrial work with 
leading partners from various sectors of the economy. At the same ti me, there are many people who, 
for various reasons, have lost touch with current scientific issues. All this adds up to a landscape that 
is diverse in terms of scientific level and research team activity. In the perspective of the next few years, 
it is par ticularly important to introduce comfortable and motivating working conditions 
for  researchers, an attractive promotion model for young scientists and programmes to develop 
the  research potential of staff.  
  
Research University  
The Warsaw University of  Technology has defined seven Priority Research Areas as part of its 
application to the 'Initiative of Excellence – Research University' (IDUB) competition:   
1. Photonic Technologies,   
2. Artificial Intelligence and Robotics,   
3. Cybersecurity and Data Science,   
4. Biotechnology and Biomedical Engineering,   
5. Materials Technologies,   
6. High Energy Physics and Experimental Techniques,  
7. Energy Conversion and Storage.   
They were identified on the b asis of an analysis of the directions of research practised at the university 
and the potential of the staff (measured by publication achievements, successes in patenting  
and implementation, and activity in the implementation of international research pro jects).  
The intention of the Warsaw University of Technology is to expand the group by those in which  
the university's research teams have less experience and achievements, but deal with socially 
important topics that touch on the most important challeng es of contemporary and future world. 
Defining such areas makes it possible to focus work on the most pressing needs for the development 
of society.  
The knowledge and expertise of the Warsaw University of Technology staff results in a high quality 
of resea rch. Today's designed solutions require more and more precise knowledge in increasingly 
narrow specialisations, but also the ability to cooperate, communicate one's own research results, 
translate them into the language of other disciplines and integrate t he work of large research teams 
representing diverse disciplines. It is therefore necessary to introduce mechanisms that motivate 
researchers, especially young ones, to seek challenges in new areas, especially in those that best 
correspond to the social ne eds of the contemporary and future world.   
  
Strong position of scientific disciplines  
Despite the growing importance of interdisciplinary research, the formal evaluation of a university 
is  related to the quality of the scientific disciplines practised in it, and their position is linked, among 
other things, to the publication activity of i ts researchers. Despite the fact that the number 
of  publications of Warsaw University of Technology employees and doctoral students in prestigious 
international journals is significant, and some of them are among the 10% of the best cited publications 
in the world, the average citation rate for most disciplines is not satisfactory for a university aspiring 
16  to a significant position on a global scale. It is therefore necessary to develop a University -wide science 
policy that includes support mechanisms for researchers and research teams.   
 
International cooperation  
International cooperation is an indispensable element of world -class research activity, having a positive 
impact not only on the quality of the research work carried out, but also on the number of citations – 
usually higher than in the case of publications  produced in projects of national scope. Analysis shows 
that the level of internationalisation of research at the university is too low − in the years preceding 
the creation of this Strategy, less than 30% of Warsaw University of Technology publications we re 
published with authors from foreign centres. The reason for this is the low mobility of research and 
teaching staff and doctoral students. It is therefore necessary to take measures to intensify 
cooperation with foreign teams, especially from internatio nally renowned scientific institutions,  
and to increase the level of internationalisation of the staff.   
Efficiency in the use of research infrastructure  
The last decade has provided the university with a unique opportunity to make infrastructure  
and a pparatus investments, financed by national and EU funds under research programmes.  
The Warsaw University of Technology has used this opportunity very effectively, enriching its research 
base with many modern laboratories, in many cases equipped with appar atus that is unique  
in the country. However, the rich laboratory base is often used inefficiently − the same apparatus 
resources are duplicated in different units and little used. This gives rise to the need for a central 
system for recording and managing  research infrastructure.  
     
17  SCIENCE – strategic and operational objectives, actions  
 
N1. Scientific excellence   
1.  Implementation of a consistent science policy  
a. Developing and implementation of a university -wide research development programme, 
identifying current research priorities  
b. Continuous monitoring of the implementation of the scientific development programme, 
its  periodic modification adapting the defined  priorities to external changes  
and to the  changing scientific potential of the university   
c. Launching programmes to develop the research potential of staff and doctoral students  
2.  Building a strong position of scientific disciplines  
a. Implementation o f incentive programmes for publication activity   
b. Increasing the efficiency of applying for research projects, including in competitions  
of the  European Research Council (ERC)  
c. Building a support system for research teams to acquire and implement ambitio us 
interdisciplinary research  
3.  Providing comfortable and motivating conditions for scientific work  
a. Introduction of  a fair, transparent and motivating employee appraisal system  
b. Introduction and widespread use of an attractive and motivational remuneration 
and  promotion system  
c. Improving the competencies of researchers through a programme of training, workshops 
and  research internships  
d. Creating conditions for the recruitment of  outstanding researchers from abroad, in particular 
experienced research team leaders  
e. Creating conditions for research work for people with disabilities  
f. Involving talented students with a passion for science in research teams  
g. Supporting bold and risky e xploratory ventures  
4. Introduction of an attractive model for the development of young researchers   
a. Integration of the five existing doctoral schools into a single Doctoral School at the Warsaw 
University of Technology, with a wide range of training pa ths on offer, ensuring 
an  improvement in the quality of doctoral training  
b. Dissemination of collaborative doctoral programmes (international with auxiliary thesis 
advisors)  
c. Increasing the impact of internationalisation in staff recruitment, periodic appraisal 
and  promotion criteria  
d. Supporting and promoting the formation of Master -Student relationships between doctoral 
students and their supervisors, as well as cooperation b etween doctoral students and research 
teams  
18  e. Introduction of purpose -driven and informed research career training  
N2. High visibility of ongoing research   
 1. Conducting an effective policy for the promotion of research results  
a. Promoting research successes and their impact on the development of technology  
and the  functioning of the society and the economy  
b. Carrying out popular science activities, such as, for  example, participation of members  
of the  academic community in debates on technology,  innovation, spreading scientific 
knowledge, debunking fake news related to it  
c. Engaging in science communication activities aimed at the public in areas consistent wit h 
the  University's Strategic Impact Areas concept  
d. Motivating Warsaw University of Technology staff to become active in international 
organisations and think -tanks  
2.  Building high international visibility for PhDs, postdoctoral theses and other 
monogra phs  
a. Implementation of the “Open Science” programme, promoting methods of producing  
and communicating scientific knowledge in line with this slogan − disseminating research 
results, exchanging information, enhancing scientific cooperation  
b. Support and dev elopment of Warsaw University of Technology journals  
c. Improving the visibility, editorial quality, accessibility and English -language transfer 
of  information and scientific papers  
d. Establishing cooperation with Level II publishers and international library networks  
e. Development and implementation of an electronic publication system for the University's 
employees and doctoral students (open monographs and scientific papers)  
N3. Effec tive mechanisms to support research work  
1.  Creating an effective support system for researchers   
a. Increasing the functionality of the knowledge base of the Warsaw University of Technology 
as  a tool for information exchange and scientific team building  
b. Improving the quality of project handling by building a decentralised support network 
and  increasin g the efficiency of their administrative handling  
c. Organisation of intergenerational and transdisciplinary discussion forums for the exchange 
of  ideas and experiences  
d. Increasing the effectiveness of research fundraising by raising the profile of research  project 
acquisition in staff appraisal  
2. Development of research infrastructure   
a. Development of a multiannual investment plan related to research projects (new laboratories, 
equipment)  
b. Expansion of research infrastructure and increased efficiency in the use of apparatus  
19  c. Continued development of the Main Library's function as a monitoring centre for the research 
achievements of university staff and teams  
     
20   
 
 
EDUCATION   
OUR  TARGET S:  
         Education taking into account the needs of the socio -economic environment   
       Modern teaching methods  
       Effective pro -quality mechanisms in teaching  
       Integration into the European academic training system  
  
THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR TARGETS  WILL BE MEASURED BY:  
o the academic level of candidates   
o the average number of students per academic staff  
o the ratio of the total number of second -cycle and doctoral students to the number 
of first -cycle students  
o the percentage of students participating in international education (studying  
in English, participating in exchange programmes, working under the su pervision  
of staff from other universities)  
o graduates’  careers  
o opinions of graduates, employers, university staff and students  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

21  The Warsaw University of Technology attracts thousands of new, talented students every year. 
They  are motivated by its reputation as a leading technical university, confirmed by its consistently 
high position in rankings. The high position of the Universi ty's graduates on the labour market is also 
a  motivation to study at the Warsaw University of Technology. The demographic low has not resulted 
in a decrease in the total number of candidates, but we are observing a decline in interest in second -
cycle stud ies and participation in doctoral programmes. It is a result of the competitiveness 
of  alternative career paths offered by the economy. A factor contributing to candidates' interest 
in  studies is the appreciation of education as the most essential condit ion for development and success 
in life. Candidates aim to improve their professional competences, particularly by taking part 
in  technical studies. This also applies to selected programme modules that allow them to expand their 
knowledge and skills withi n and beyond our programmes (lifelong learning).  
The needs of society, the policies of the State and  the trends observed in the development  
of the  global economy all favour an increase in the importance of technical education.  
  
Bringing the education model closer to that of a typical research university  
In order to achieve a profile typical of world -leading research universities, the Warsaw University 
of  Technology must strive to increase the importance of second -cycle studies and doctoral schools. 
This means changing the numerical proportions, as well a s increasing the role of research -oriented, 
interdisciplinary and individual education programmes. Encouraging good candidates to study  
at the  Warsaw University of Technology should be facilitated by consistent linking of the didactic offer 
(fields of st udy, specialisations) with the profile of Priority Research Areas, which are part  
of the  concept of Strategic Impact Areas of the university.   
Fields of study and education methods  
The didactic offer of the Warsaw University of Technology includes a wi de range of technical  
and non -technical curricula. Students can pursue a comprehensive education at Bachelor's  
and Master's level as well as at doctoral schools, in full -time or part -time form, also in English. Efforts 
must be made to  make the offer map  clearer so that candidates can take decisions in line with their 
expectations, and to concentrate the university's teaching potential around clearly defined subject 
areas. In many faculties of the University, modern forms of education  are being implemente d  
to develop students' design and research skills, but a large proportion of classes are still conducted 
using traditional forms of education. Dissemination of good practices in the use of innovative forms 
and methods of education, including project -based  methods and linking project themes to ongoing 
research work and social needs, is one of the objectives set out in the Strategy.  
Within the framework of existing curricula and in the newly created offer, efforts should be made 
to make use of formulas for individualising the learning path which are being developed  
in the  European Union. One of these is microcredentials , which make it possible to summarise separate 
learning modules with certificates documenting the acquisition of knowledge and skills withi n them.  
  
Internationalisation of studies  
The number of foreign students enrolled in the education system at the Warsaw University 
of  Technology is steadily increasing. The number of Polish students taking advantage of international 
academic exchange pr ogrammes is also increasing. What is unsatisfactory is the low number of foreign 
lecturers involved in the educational process. Measures aimed at increasing the scale 
of  internationalisation of studies and, at the same time, improving their quality (confi rmed 
by  international accreditations) include: the development of the offer of education in English, 
the  introduction of the obligation to complete a specific amount of second -cycle studies in English, 
22  as  well as the creation of incentives for writing d iploma theses in English, which are intended 
to  facilitate international academic exchange and encourage foreign lecturers to participate  
in the educational process at the Warsaw University of Technology.  
The most important challenge of the coming perio d in terms of internationalisation  
is the  integration of the Warsaw University of Technology with the universities of the ENHANCE 
consortium. Successful implementation of the European universities project may result in the presence 
of the Warsaw Universi ty of Technology among the universities shaping the vision of Europe's future 
academic system. It will also mean a significant increase in opportunities for students, staff 
and  administrative staff to participate in international programmes.  
  
     
23  EDUCATION – strategic and operational objectives, actions  
  
  
K1. Education taking into account the needs of the socio -economic 
environment and the status of a research university  
1.      Organisation of education in line with the vision of a research university  
a. Gradual increase in the potential of the doctoral school and second degree offer, which will 
further stimulate  the interest of candidates and the change in the proportion of students 
declared in the IDUB project (shift of the centre of gravity towards higher levels of education)  
b. Creating a comfortable environmen t for research -oriented education (e.g. reducing groups, 
increasing access to research infrastructure)  
c. Facilitating the completion of selected parts of the curriculum by students doing properly 
planned research work (in research teams and research clubs)  
d. Development of second -cycle curricula related to Priority Research Areas of the university   
e. Creating conditions conducive to the realisation of students' individual development paths, 
starting at the beginning of their studies and leading towards researc h work  
f. Creating flexible and interdisciplinary training paths for doctoral students, facilitating 
the  compromise of training with the rhythm of research work and mobility, in cooperation 
with other universities, research institutions and institutes of th e Polish Academy of Sciences  
g. Promoting the creation of joint, interdisciplinary curricula conducted as part 
of  interdepartmental cooperation  – preventing internal competition by creating similar 
curricula at different faculties  
2.  Building leadership in technical education in the European region  
a. Building strong identification of priority fields of study and their promotion  
b. Using the university's research successes as a development impetus for related curricula  
c. Dynamic development of studies offered in English  
d. Strengthening the position of an act ive member of the ENHANCE consortium and highlighting 
the participation of the Warsaw University of Technology in the European Universities Project 
as an important prerequisite for teaching excellence  
e. Building a culture of open access to teaching publicat ions  
f. Encouraging citizens of the European Union, the Swiss Confederation and EFTA Member States 
to study at the Warsaw University of Technology through promotion on the European market 
and through an economically rational and, at the same time, preferenti al policy with regard 
to  tuition fees.  
  
3.     Linking the content of teaching activities to the needs of civilisation and society  
a. Continuous monitoring of the needs of the University environment, of the desired 
competences of graduates, creation of a think -tank for anticipating needs that 
the  environment is unable to verbalise  
24  b. Creation of new initiatives linking education to the needs of the environment, through training, 
courses, post -graduate studies  
c. Using contacts with the socio -economic environm ent to identify education priorities accurately  
d. Promoting student involvement in community -based activities that raise awareness and build 
connections with the community  
4.    Realisation of the University's social responsibility in educating a knowledge -based 
society  
e. University engagement  in postgrad uate education, particularly in new fields of engineering 
to  support the market economy  
f. Attracting and assisting economically active individuals to undertake research work together 
with the University  and to realise PhDs focused on industrial implementat ion (implementation 
doctorates)  
g. Developing the university's micro -competence offer in national and international environment 
as a support for the dynamics of economic change in line with the country's development 
strategy  
K2. Modern methods of education  
1.  Supporting  high  quality  primary education (in the area of science  and basic 
engineering)  
a. Creating new and supporting existing mechanisms to attract winners of science Olympiads  
b. Creation of intra -university programmes to support the development of stu dents with special 
talents in science and basic engineering   
c. Supporting the university system to ensure a high, equalised level of basic knowledge  
(e.g. a  system to supplement basic knowledge for students in the initial semesters)  
2.  Implementing modern methods of communication and learning  
a. Using tools for group work, solving project problems and using research methodology  
b. Development of a unit dealing w ith education methodology, particularly with modern 
education methods  
c. Expanding the range of activities carried out according to the project methodology   
d. Identification of existing or development of new intra -university mechanisms to compensate 
for the c ost-intensity of classes using modern communication methods  
e. Transforming the teaching environment towards the realities of engineering work  
f. Expanding the tool base in terms of communication, group work (also remote) and increasing 
the competence of acade mic staff in this area  
3.       The evolution of education towards the needs of a post -pandemic society   
a. Establishing a system to monitor the effectiveness of distance learning and its impact  
on the  development of social competences and the feeling of  integration into the academic 
community  
25  b. Evolutionary redesign of curricula towards the best possible combination of traditional  
and remote techniques, leading to better communication and more efficient use of resources  
c. Increasing flexibility in the use  of the university facilities and infrastructure to ensure that 
different types of learning activities can be delivered in a safe and socially interactive 
environment  
d. Supporting lifelong learning in terms of post -graduate studies, offers for working people, 
and  teaching modules open to people from outside the programmes, also using micro -
competences  
4.  Implementing the concept of learning as a joint activity between students and 
academic staff   
a. Extension of existing mechanisms for examining teaching activities as perceived by students 
(questionnaires surveys, discussions in college bodies, holding open meetings on didactic 
topics, spot -checks with participation of students and surveys on ongoing curricula)  
b. Expanding student participation in curriculum development and updating  
c. Promotion of workshop -based forms of education in which students participate as creators 
of  learning processes (e.g. in the form of "vertical" projects involving students from different 
years of study)  
K3. Effective pro -quality mechanisms  in didactics   
1.  Provision of an efficient technical and communication infrastructure in t eaching  
a. Striving for full integration of the teaching management system while ensuring the necessary 
flexibility (dependent on departmental needs)  
b. Increasing access to the university's digital knowledge base and the resources available 
to  students and t eaching staff  
c. Integration of learning management system and distance learning tools within the ENHANCE 
consortium and implementation of European standards for data exchange   
2.  Effective use of the University's cubature and laboratory facilities in teaching  
a. Increasing the number of rooms and shared infrastructure for research and teaching, 
on  an  interdepartmental basis   
b. Using digital systems to optimise learning activities (i n time and space)  
c. Development of a concept for transforming infrastructure and cubature resources in a way 
that is appropriate to the needs of the new hybrid and mixed mode of education   
3.  Building financial mechanisms to increase motivation for innova tive activities 
in  teaching and to support the most talented students  
a. Including the assessment of the quality of teaching in financial mechanisms (in relation 
to  academic staff and teaching units)  
b. Building a transparent, competition -based system for acc ess to additional funding to support 
innovative teaching activities  
26  c. Establishing a system for the distribution of subsidies that takes into account the variation 
in  teaching costs, which depend on financial factors and labour costs that vary considerably  
between educational areas  
d. Expansion of the scholarship system, including externally funded programmes, taking into 
account particularly gifted people who achieve measurable successes (external awards, results 
in competitions, especially international one s)  
  
     
27   
 
 
COMMUNITY  
OUR  TARGET S:  
A welcoming ecosystem that strengthens relationships between  
community members   
    An established culture of continuous improvement in all groups of the academic 
community  
      An efficient talent support system  
  
 THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR TARGETS  WILL BE MEASURED BY:  
o the percentage of employees, students and doctoral students defining the Warsaw 
University of Technology as a friendly place to work and study  
o the number of foreigners employed in research or teaching positions  
o the number of long -term internships and mo bility in foreign research centres  
o opinion of students taking part in individual study plans  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

28  The Warsaw University of Technology is first and foremost about people who value a unique 
atmosphere, shared academic standards and the chance to perform important tasks that build 
a  common future, above and beyond the usual professional motivations. The unique and inimitable 
organisational culture is built by creating patterns of cooperation, a creative atmosphere, a sense 
of  awareness of goals and satisfaction from joint achievements.  
 
Organisational culture at the Warsaw University of Technology   
The organisational culture of the Warsaw University of Technology is a culture of academic excellence, 
integrating all staff around a mission and common goals. It is a culture of continuous improvement 
across all groups of the academic community, promoting mo dels of academic scepticism and criticism 
and activities characteristic for academic discourse. Finally, it is a culture of courageous leadership, 
marking the role of the supervisor in supporting staff development, encouraging risk -taking, 
responsibility, initiative, creativity, teamwork, mutual support and flexibility in thought and action.  
  
A friendly place to work and study  
Great Science is born by investing in people, appreciating them, creating conditions for their work and 
development, and sometime s by clever matching of interests and competences. To make the Warsaw 
University of Technology a friendly working environment, a number of measures should be taken 
to  simplify bureaucratic procedures and foster mutual friendliness between the administrati on  
and staff, students and doctoral students. These actions are to increase openness to the invention  
of teams and faculties, improving working and studying conditions. Bearing in mind that the initial, 
and  potentially further, period of implementation of the Development Strategy is an unusual time – 
a  time of pandemic – affecting the mental health and well -being of all members of the academic 
community, the Strategy also provides for activities related to the promotion and support of academic 
sport, th e access to professional psychological care for members of the academic community  
and the  activation of the student community in terms of academic culture . The Human Research 
Excellence in Research distinction awarded to the University by the European Commission, confirming 
the  standards in force at the Warsaw University of Technology, is associated not only with prestige, 
but also with a commitment to conti nuous improvement of the activities carried out in this area. These 
include: increasing the attractiveness of working conditions, internationalisation of the staff, 
implementation of an effective system for identifying particularly talented young scientist s (employees 
and doctoral students) and supporting the development of the scientific and professional careers 
of  all  employees of the university, as well as supporting the mobility of employees and doctoral 
students of the Warsaw University of Technology . A remuneration system that allows for significant 
differentiation in the level of remuneration depending on the activity of individual employees 
is  essential. The lack of such a system, combined with the low level of salaries when compared  
to the marke t is a strong demotivating factor, especially for young staff. Therefore, the creation  
of systemic mechanisms supporting employee development and satisfaction, i.e. a system  
of professional  development based on employee appraisal criteria, promotions and  salaries,  
is one of the objectives in this area.  
  
Talent management   
Talent management is not just about identifying outstanding individuals and creating development 
or  promotion paths for them. It is a process based on trust, valuing an employee to whom more 
decision -making power is delegated, but from whom continuous improvement of skills  
and competences is also required. It is about scholarship programmes, grants for outstanding students 
29  and doctoral candidates, but also training and workshops, co aching sessions and career counselling.  
It is also the organisation of mobility, internships abroad and study visits to top institutions 
and  research centres.  
  
     
30  COMMUNITY – strategic and operational objectives, actions  
 
S1. Creating a welcoming ecosystem strengthening relationships 
between community members   
1. Building the activities of people around shared values and a widely accepted strategy 
for the developme nt of the university  
a. Developing and implementing a democratic, participatory model for improving 
and  implementing the university's development strategy  
b. Building a sense of pride and personal satisfaction by involving as many community members 
as possible in joint initiatives and activities  
c. Creation of university -wide scientific, teaching and organisational pilot projects, enhancing 
integration and sense of community (embedded in the priorities of the Strategic Impact Areas)  
d. Implementing traditional academic values and principles related to the University's social 
responsibility  
2.  Creating a friendly working and studying environment  
a. Improving the existing system of welfare benefits tailored to the needs of the university 
community  
b. Creation of an effective support system and removal of barriers limiting students, doctoral 
students and staff with disabilities  
c. Modernisation and expansion of the leisure centre facilities and the Student Chalet  
of the Warsaw University of Technology, as well as increasing the quality of the services offered 
there  
d. Modernisation of student halls of res idence  
e. Development and implementation of a "friendly space" project - organisation of places 
for  relaxation and informal contact between employees, doctoral students and students 
on  the campuses of the Warsaw University of Technology e.g. green areas, r estaurants, cafés, 
outdoor gyms, as well as a place for joint and quiet study for students   
3.  Creation and development of an "Academic Trust Centre"  
a. Provision of professional psychological care for members of the academic community   
b. Definite counteract ing any symptoms of intolerance, unequal treatment, mobbing, 
harassment and other pathological behaviour and responding firmly and consistently 
to  incidents that occur  
4.  Supporting the student research movement  
a. Construction and development of student laboratory centres - places of activity for student 
research clubs  
b. Developing solutions for safe and comprehensive student access to the university's laboratory 
facilities  
31  c. Strengthening the cooperation of student r esearch groups with the business environment – 
creating a patronage system   
d. Increase in th e implementation potential and the level of intellectual property protection 
of  student research groups  
e. Professionalisation of promotion and information activities  related to the student research 
movement  
f. Establishing a system of effective support for tutors of student research groups  
g. Implementing a system to include documented achievements of student research groups 
as  educational outcomes and including supervis ion of student research groups in staff 
appraisal criteria  
5.  Supporting the activation of the student and doctoral community in terms  
of academic culture and academic sport   
a. Continuous and active cooperation of the university management with the Stude nt 
Government and the Council of PhD students  
b. Supporting the activities of student clubs to restore their former position in the cultural life 
of  Warsaw and Plock   
c. Providing arts units operating in the university with a place to conduct their activities 
comfortably  
d. Expansion of the university's cultural and sporting facilities in Warsaw and Płock  
(e.g. renovation and launch of the Academic Cultural Centre at the D. S. Riviera hall  
of residence, construction of a sports complex at the Syrenka stadium)  
e. Promoting and supporting academic sport in cooperation with the University Club  
of the  Academic Sports Association of the Warsaw University of Technology  
f. Introducing mechanisms to promote the social and artistic activities of students and doctoral 
students  
S2. Fostering a culture of continuous improvement in all groups  
of the academic com munity   
1.  Implementing a culture of academic excellence  
a. Implementing, cultivating and promoting the best academic values, including fostering 
attitudes of responsibility, kindness, openness, truth and trust  
b. Broad communication and integration of the c ommunity around the mission, vision  
and development goals of the university  
c. Promoting models of scepticism and scientific criticism, activities of academic discourse nature 
and a culture of dispute free of sophisms  
2.  Improving the competence of teachi ng staff and administration involved  
in the education process   
a. Increasing the availability of training in teaching methodology, interpersonal and language 
competences  
b. Highlighting indicators of teaching excellence in the staff appraisal system and building 
the  prestige of teaching masters  
32  c. Strengthening the link bet ween teaching achievements and the system of rewards (honorary, 
financial) − creating systemic solutions in this respect  
3. Building systemic mechanisms to support employee development and job satisfaction   
a. Implementing an incentive -based professional development system based on staff appraisal 
criteria, promotions and salaries  
b. Building a culture of academic excellence that i ntegrates all staff around a common mission 
and shared goals  
c. Promoting health -oriented attitudes and implementing transparent rules for accessibility 
to  the university's social infrastructure  
d. Introducing a system for monitoring staff competence developm ent  
e. Introduction of language courses for all employee groups  
4.  Enhancing the mobility of people (in and out of the European Union academic system)  
a. Organisation of long -term internships at partner universities and increasing the participation 
of foreig n staff in the teaching activities of the university  
b. Increasing student migration, through the creation of an inter -university, international 
teaching offer and open access to this offer  
c. Increasing the number of short -term teaching projects conducted in an international 
environment (workshops, summer schools)  
d. Participation in international programmes building common standards of teaching quality 
and  a common system of certification of achievements  
S3. Introducing a programme of active search, development  
and maintenance of talents   
1.  Searching for particularly talented students and university candidates  
a. Increasing the communicativeness of course descriptions, leading to greater congruence 
between c andidates' expectations and their experiences as students  
b. Improving communication between the university and students of selected secondary schools   
c. Development and implementation of talent selection mechanisms among university 
candidates   
d. Development a nd implementation of programmes and effective mechanisms to support 
the  development of particularly gifted students, such as a flexible, interdisciplinary mode  
of study in a system of individual tutoring  
e. Involvement of the most outstanding students in o ngoing research work   
f. Increasing the role of  university graduates in the student talent support programme   
2.  Attracting the most talented doctoral students, young scientists and academic 
teachers to the university  
a. Building a scholarship programme to fund the arrival of high -potential foreign researchers 
at  the university  
33  b. Building mechanisms to propagate information about job competitions at the University with 
international reach  
c. Implementation of an information campaign building the image of the Warsaw University 
of  Technology as a modern, attractive and friendly employer  
d. Development and implementation of an adaptation programme for newly recruited staff  
and visitors, including  a programme of care for foreigners  
e. Creating preferences for the most talented doctoral  students  and undergraduates  
in the  housing management system of the Warsaw University of Technology  
and in the allocation of places in halls of residence  
3.  Nurtu ring the development of talent among the university's employees   
a. Developing talent selection mechanisms among all employee groups, by defining above -
average capabilities   
b. Institutional support of ideas for innovative and development -oriented activities a nd projects   
c. Organisation of mobility, internships abroad and study visits to top institutions and research 
centres  
d. Consultation on research career development and enabling access to specialised laboratories 
where young, talented scientists can develop t heir research interests  
  
  
     
34   
 
 
RELATIONS  
OUR  TARGET S:  
  
  A university that cares about relationships and is open to new opportunities  
for collaboration  
 Effective institutional international cooperation  
 Active and multidisciplinary relationships with national partners   
 Intensive innovation and technology transfer activities  
 Efficient centre for innovative entrepreneurship for students, doctoral students  
and employees   
  
 THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR TARGETS  WILL BE MEASURED BY:  
o the number of bilateral doctorate programmes (cotutelle)  
o the number of foreigners employed   
o the value of revenues from commercialisation  
o the number of university technological spin -off companies  
o the number of organisations involved  in joint national and international projects  
o the number of students, doctoral candidates and employees developing their 
competences in innovative entrepreneurship   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35  The Warsaw University of Technology attaches high importance to building an d actively utilising 
a  network of research and educational relationships. Collaborations include national and international 
institutional and individual entities. In building relationships, the university community focuses 
on  generating value for all par ties involved, learning from the best and assisting those who require  
the support of the university's knowledge and expertise. Faced with the challenges of rapid digital 
transformation, social change and global events such as pandemics, many participants in economic 
systems are looking for partnerships, both in content and organisational aspects. The Warsaw 
University of Technology offers professional and strong relationships, that are competency -based  
and focused on the results in the form of solutions t o contemporary problems, expanding our 
understanding of the world we live in and producing innovation, especially in technical areas of human 
activity .  
  
International partnerships  
International partnerships, particularly within the framework of European cooperation,  
are an important dimension of the Warsaw University of Technology's network of relationships.  
A flagship example of international partnerships is the participation in the ENHANCE consortium  
of technical universities, where solutions are being developed in the fields of innovative educational 
methods, academic mobility and the streamlining of administrative processes. Within ENHANCE, 
universities engage in international  cooperation with businesses, local governments, student 
organisations, research networks and non -profit institutions. International cooperation  
is seen as a source of  exchange of knowledge, experience and research perspectives  
and as a way of bringing together talented researchers and teachers into groups that are  
able to achieve synergies, high creativity and efficiency through their combined potential .  
  
Cooperation with the economic environment  
The second area of rich relations is cooperation with the economic environment, implemented 
by  supporting initiatives aimed at increasing the competitiveness of industries, regions and new  
and ground -breaking business ecosystems, including those based on  digitalisation and the application 
of  modern technologies. In cooperation with economic institutions, the Warsaw University  
of Technology focuses its research work on developing innovative yet practical solutions that respond 
to  business challenges and  can be commercialised.  
  
Employee and student relations  
In the dimension of individual relations, the Warsaw University of Technology considers it crucial 
to  nurture an open and friendly dialogue with employees, building a culture of continuous 
improve ment of ways of working, motivating and building the success of the individual  
as a path to the success of teams and the university. The second area of most important individual 
relationships is  building lasting bonds with our students. We believe that n urturing these relationships 
is required at every stage of a student's development, from the formation of academic interests  
and support for teaching in secondary school, through accurate recruitment, then through  
the successive stages of  academic and r esearch development, to achieving graduate status.   
  
Graduates of the Warsaw University of Technology are in many cases successful people, both 
professionally (in science and business) and personally. They define their success as the possibility 
of  self-fulfilment, i.e. using their potential to achieve their goals, a sense of meaning, usefulness, taking 
pleasure in their work and feeling satisfied with it, as well as being able to influence their surroundings. 
Despite a number of interesting initiatives carried out as part of establishing relations with university 
36  graduates in previous years, this area still needs to be improved, and taking action to implement global 
practices in the area of shaping relations with graduates seems essential.   
  
It is our r esponsibility to nurture relationships with employees, students and PhD students  
in a  way that identifies potential and talent, supports each person in their comprehensive personal 
development and maximises their success in the workplace. We are convince d that both employees 
and students and doctoral students are our best ambassadors, and that the relationships that  
bind us are a sustainable source of generating value for society.  
     
37  RELATIONS – strategic and operational objectives, actions  
 
  
R1.  Building a university that cares about relations, open to new 
opportunities for cooperation  
1.  Construction of a map of relations of the Warsaw University of Technology as a basis 
for active care for generating values for all parties of the relationship  
a. Building centres of expertise  
b. Seeking strategic partners to strengthen the university's potenti al in designated fields  
c. Organisation of events  (conferences, workshops, seminars) highlighting the university's 
profile of interest  
2.  Arranging the status of relations and possible forms of interaction with external 
partners  
a. Creation and regular upda ting of a professional, university -wide directory of entities that 
cooperate with the university  
b. Publication of the research offer catalogue and its coordination with the map of external 
relations  
c. Ensuring an effective system for finding experts and part ners in a particular area  
at the  university   
3.  Building and maintaining lasting and active relations with university graduates   
a. Implementation of global practices in the area of a relations development with graduates  
b. Development of national and international cooperation with graduates of the Warsaw 
University of Technology in various areas of the University's activities  
c. Support and development of networking and mentoring programmes with graduates  
of the  university  
R2.  Increasing the effectiveness of institutional international 
cooperation  
1. Intensifying activities within the ENHANCE consortium and cooperation with other 
world centres of high scientific standing  
a. Support for the formation of international research  teams and organisational assistance  
in shared applications for research funding  
b. Developing bilateral doctorate programmes (cotutelle)  
38  2.  Supporting academic exchange activities  
a. Strengthening the mobility of researchers, with an emphasis on young researchers  
and PhD students  
b. Developing programmes to invite visiting professors, young academics (postdoctoral) 
and  doctoral students   
3.  Increasing the university's visibility in the global academic system  
a. Taking steps to successively increase the university's position in the mo st important world  
and national rankings  
b. Creative promotion of the university on websites and social networks in foreign language 
versions  
c. Creation of a system of Ambassadors of the Warsaw University of Technology − graduates  
with outstanding academic achievements or professional successes who promote  
the University in  various environments   
d. Increasing digital accessibility for foreign students and doctoral candidates  
e. Development of an English -language version of the University Public Information Bul letin  
f. Improving the level of English proficiency among staff, including the provision of a full bilingual 
administrative service  
g. Strengthening and simplifying employment pathways for  foreigners  
R3. Building active and multidisciplinary relations with na tional 
partners  
1.  Intensifying cooperation with central (government, ministries, national agencies)  
and local government institutions  
a. Supporting the participation of the university teams in government agency -funded 
programmes related to the area of ac tivities identified as priorities by the University   
b. Cooperation with the local governments of Warsaw, Plock and the Mazovian Voivodeship 
in  solving complex social and economic problems by providing expertise and implementing 
joint projects and initiativ es  
c. Participation in the social development process (i.e. economic, civilisational, ethical, cultural 
dimensions)  
2.  Increasing effectiveness of cooperation with business environment institutions, 
business representatives, NGOs, local communities  
a. Development of effective cooperation with business environment institutions and business 
representatives to enhance the regio n's competitiveness and innovation  
b. Organisation of activities and events aimed at popularising knowledge (Third Age University, 
activities for children and schoolchildren, courses for teachers, cooperation of student 
research groups with secondary schools , etc.).  
39  3.  Building a system of cooperation with strategic partners in priority areas  
a. Involvement in cooperation programmes on a national scale, together with partner universities 
as well as representatives of the socio -economic environment, especially  in projects  
that are in the area of the university's priority activities (the Strategic Impact Areas concept).   
b. Establishing permanent collaborative relationships, based on formal agreements, with 
strategic research and economic partners   
 
R4. Increasi ng the intensity of innovation activities and technology 
transfer  
1.       Development and implementation of a new innovation management policy  
a. Building an effective and transparent system for innovation and development activities  
b. Increasing institutional support for staff and research teams carrying out innovative work  
c. Intensification of cooperation with external partners in implementation proj ects with a high 
level of technological readiness  
d. Fostering creative innovative attitudes among staff, students and doctoral candidates  
2.      Optimisation of commercialisation and processes of knowledge and technolog y 
transfer   
a. Implementation of best global practices in the area of commercialisation of research results  
b. Increasing the efficiency of the commercialisation process of research results  
c. Providing a one -stop -shop for staff, students and postgraduates on the protection 
of  intellectual property   
d. Improving the knowledge of university employees in the field of commercialisation  
e. Development and implementation of mechanisms for valuing intellectual property  
f. Implementation of the 'Patent IP' programme to support applicatio ns for international patents  
g. Implementation of the "WUT Best Innovators" Programme − study visits to the world's best 
academic innovation centres  
3.        Popularisation of the University's innovative activities  
a. Development and implementation of effective tools for the dissemination of innovative 
activities of the university  
b. Implementation of projects and initiatives to popularise science, disseminate tech nological 
achievements in the field of new technologies and research and development projects, 
in  particular technology offerings  
c. Promoting innovative activities  and entrepreneurial attitudes in the academic community  
d. Building and disseminating the ima ge, including international image, of the Warsaw University 
of Technology as an innovative university   
  
40  R5. Development of an innovative entrepreneurship centre  
for students, doctoral students and employees  
1.  Disseminating knowledge and supporting ac tivities concerning innovative 
entrepreneurship  
a. Building awareness and disseminating knowledge of innovative entrepreneurship among 
students, doctoral students and employees   
b. Supporting the use of research results in the process of creating technological and social 
innovations for the development of the Polish economy and modern society  
c. Professionalisation of support for the incubation of innovative ideas, start -ups, universit y 
technological companies spin offs, modern forms of entrepreneurship and cluster initiatives  
d. Implementation of the "WUT Accelerator" Programme − support for the creation  
and development of spin -off companies in terms of solutions developed as part  
of the university's R&D projects  
e. Proactive acquisition of resources for the development of the university's innovative 
entrepreneurship  
  
  
     
41   
 
 
RESOURCES  
OUR TARGET S:  
 Modern, effective and strategic management of the university in a sustainable 
manner  
 Rational financial  policy and management of  university property  
 Structured spatial development processes  
  
 THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR TARGETS  WILL BE MEASURED BY:  
o the percentage of income from sources other than the basic subsidy  
o the number of digitised processes  
o the number of elements of the university's real estate resources included  
in the digital geo -information base  
o implementation of an electronic catalogue of available housing stock   
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

42  The university's resource management is oriented towards maximising the use of its resources in order 
to provide a stable base for the achievement of its statutory objectives, while implementing strategic 
optimisation and development activities. The Warsaw  University of Technology pays the utmost 
attention to the rational disposal of allocated resources, which constitute a valuable part of the public 
good.    
   
Intangible resources   
In addition to research laboratories or lecture halls, repositories of pu blications, data and projects 
are  key resources of the Warsaw University of Technology. In view of the mass digitisation 
of  documents and processes of information circulation, the Warsaw University of Technology  
is investing in the construction of effic ient, integrated and globally connected databases. The internal 
order of the university, which consists of organisational structures, communication channels, forms 
of  cooperation, management methods and decision -making schemes, reporting and measurement 
of  activity, as well as all processes: research, teaching and administration, is also treated as a strategic 
resource. The dynamic changes of today's world require the Warsaw University of Technology 
to  operate in an agile mode and within a philosophy of continuous improvement of ways of working, 
while maintaining respect for academic tradition and the philosophy of open and free science. 
Of  particular importance for the university is further digitalisation, which not only increases the agility 
of process es, but also opens up new opportunities (e.g. international cooperation, building 
communities and platforms for collaboration) and allows the risk of the operational model  
to be reduced (e.g. in a pandemic situation). Moving the life of the academy to the  virtual world 
involves the emergence of new dangers, hence the need to emphasise solutions that ensure cyber 
security and respect for human rights, including those arising from the protection of personal data.   
   
Material resources   
In terms of the man agement of the university's physical assets, a wide range of needs  
for the modernisation of the infrastructure of the Warsaw University of Technology has been defined. 
It  concerns the historical substance, faculty buildings , administrative and technical buildings,  
as well as student dormitories and housing – for university employees, but also for visiting 
representatives of  other universities and organisations. In the coming years, the Development 
Strategy assumes the streamlining of processes related t o the implementation of renovations and new 
investments, through a comprehensive view of material resources: from an analysis of the condition 
of the existing infrastructure and the needs of users, through planning and prioritising the investment 
schedule,  to  maximising the potential of specific facilities, while ensuring an appropriate level  
of maintenance funding.   
   
Financial  resources   
Rational management of the university's finances is a critical factor, allowing it not only to maintain 
continuity of operations in conditions of economic and regulatory volatility (e.g. price increases  
and deterioration of salary levels reducing the comp etitiveness of employers, changes in public 
procurement processes), but also the implementation of the development investment programme. 
The Warsaw University of Technology continues to seek non -subsidiary sources of funding, through 
the commercialisation of research results, grants, paid education and international programmes. 
In  addition to the revenue side, the university is also taking active steps to optimise costs  
and understand their development trends. Bearing in mind that the basis for efficient financial 
management is to maintain high transparency in the processes of planning and accounting for funds 
and to strengthen accountability for budgets at various levels of the organisation, the Development 
43  Strategy assumes the introduction of new methods  for creating unit budgets, continuous monitoring 
of financial performance and professional support for units in financial management.  
    
RESOURCES – strategic and operational objectives, actions  
  
Z1.  Shaping modern and effective management of the University  
     in  a  sustainable manner  
1.  Improving the University's management model  
a. Consistent adherence to the principle of managing the University in a democratic, open  
and transparent manner  
b. Making the best possible use of the University Council as a body that supports and oversees 
the university, but also as its ambassador in the ec onomic and administrative environment  
c. Electing all bodies, representatives and managers as democratically as  possible  
d. Using the opinions and taking into account the views of collegiate bodies and groups  
of the  academic community in all matters and to t he maximum extent possible  
e. Building an efficient administrative and legal apparatus, efficiently relieving the Rector, Deans 
and staff from time -consuming organisational activities   
2.  Shaping the organisational and spatial model of the Warsaw Universit y of Technology  
a. Development of the WUT campus in a manner consistent with the priorities of environmentally 
friendly  architecture and technical infrastructure  
b. Integrating sustainability standards into all of the University's investments (business, 
production, construction)  
3.  Optimisation of the administrative structure and management methods  
a. Aligning the structure with the university's strategic goals and ne eds, continuously reviewing 
the organisational structure for optimal resource allocation, addressing current issues of staff 
and team availability  
b. Introducing proven, modern management methods and models at the University, in particular 
strategic objectiv e management and process management  
c. Building a culture of leadership - emphasising the supervisor's role in supporting employee 
development, linking supervisor appraisal to the performance of his/her team  
d. Conducting ongoing monitoring of the effects of t he changes implemented, including staff 
satisfaction levels  
4.  Pursuing widespread digitisation of resources and management processes   
a. Implementation of electronic document management  
b. Expansion and improvement of IT tools supporting management processe s  
c. Provision of an efficient academic EDUROAM network in all units of the university  
44  d. Widespread introduction of mLegitymacja – mobile equivalents of student, doctoral 
and  employee ID cards  
e. Gradual, consistent introduction of a centralised system for managing access to premises   
f. Continuous monitoring of the level of security of information systems and websites, creation 
of a system for immediate response to threats  
5.  Improvement of intern al cooperation and increased exchange of experience   
a. Creating platforms for collaboration − in the form of groups, meetings or common goals  
b. Implementing a system for sharing the work and activities of individuals  
c. Development of an internal internship programme ( exchange of people within jobs)   
d. Developing mechanisms to enable the creation of task teams  
  
Z2.  Conducting a rational financial and property management policy 
of the University  
1.  Maximising the level of subsidies and increase of income from external projects  
and funds, including international funds  
a. Conducting a detailed analysis of all factors af fecting the level of subsidies and costs  
of the  university's activities   
b. Increasing the share of external funding in the revenue structure (from projects, research 
services, paid education, etc.)  
2.  Optimisation of costs and budget structure  
a. Introduci ng new methods of shaping the budgets of the University units, based on a sound 
analysis of their operating costs  
b. Optimising the university's operating costs  
c. Optimisation of the use of the university's assets and investing free funds  
3.  Forward -looking  and comprehensive investment planning guaranteeing 
environmental friendliness and comfortable use  
a. Creating a long -term plan for the university's central investments, taking into account current 
and future development and replacement needs   
b. Implementation of standards for the concept content of any planned investment   
c. Improvement of existing property resources and infrastructure   
Z3.  Arrangement of spatial development processes  
1.  Creating tools and funding mechanisms for spatial development planning  
a. Creation of a digital geo -information base covering all real estate assets of the University  
and a digital model of existing buildings and planned investments  
45  b. Development of procedur es and introduction of BIM (Building Information Modelling) 
as  a  valid standard for drawing up and collecting technical documentation  
c. Creation of stable mechanisms for financing investment tasks  
d. Development of a plan for the rehabilitation of historic buildings, taking into account 
the  urgency of conservation and repair, and with a plan for applying for heritage -oriented 
funding  
2.  Developing a structured catalogue of tasks and its continuous update in the context 
of monitoring needs  
a. Development of a plan for the rehabilitation of historic buildings, taking into account 
the  urgency of conservation and repair, and with a plan for applying for heritage -oriented 
funding  
b. Forecasting future user behaviour and needs for education, research , dormitory 
accommodation and other processes affecting facilities of the university  
c. Creation of a digital database of room occupancy (teaching, laboratory) and declared space 
requirement  of units   
d. Identifying priority locations and programmes whose devel opment has a significant impact 
on  the functioning of the University  
e. Creation of an electronic catalogue of available housing stock with term and financial 
conditions  
3.       Creating stable mechanisms for financing investment tasks  
a. Defining the scope  of central investment activities (in relation to individual unit development 
plans) and a gradual development of a dedicated fund for these activities  
b. Creation of a fund for investment preparation that will allow  studies to be conducted, develop 
project s and apply for external funding   
     
    
 
  
46  Annex to Development Strategy of the Warsaw University of Technology until 2030  
  
Resolution no. 87/XLIV/2000   
of the Warsaw University of Technology Senate of 13 December 2000  
on the Mission of the Warsaw University of Technology   
The Senate of the Warsaw University  of Technology, acting upon § 46 section l of the WUT 
Statute, hereby adopts the document entitled the Mission of the Warsaw University  
of Technology, included in the annex hereto.  
The Senate decides that the Mission of the Warsaw University of Technology  will be published 
and shall enter into force on 4 January 2001 – on the 175th anniversary of the opening  
of the Preparatory School for the Polytechnic Institute.  
 Secretary of the  Senat e  R e c t o r  
 Teresa Kotaszewicz , PhD   Professor  Jerzy Woźnicki  
  
Anne x to WUT Senate resolution  
no. 87/XLIV/2000   
MIS SION OF THE  WARSAW UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY   
The Warsaw University of Technology, so named in 1915, continues the tradition  
of the Preparatory School for the Institute of Technology set up in Warsaw in 1826 thanks  
to the efforts of Stanisław Staszic. The University's roots also reach down to the Hi polit 
Wawelberg and Stanisław Rotwand School of Machine Construction and Electrical 
Engineering, created in  1895. The many generations of engineers it turned out and its significant 
contributions to the  development of technical sciences earned the Warsaw  University  
of Technology an acclaimed position in the country as well as international renown.  
Looking back at the history of the Warsaw University of Technology, we see not only 
achievements in academic teaching and scientific research but also efforts to steep young people 
in patriotism and to safeguard the academic community ethos. It w as the results of these efforts 
that led the academic community to repeatedly stand up in defen ce of the highest of values:  
the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland, freedom and civic rights, ethical principles  
and spiritual values nurtured over many centuries of Poland's history. Time and again  
the Warsaw University of Technology paid a heavy price for its commitment to the se values − 
suffering severe repression, seeing its activities curbed, and even being denied its very existence 
− and yet it  always came back to life, under different names, preserving freedom of thought and 
never weakening in its attachment to the Europe an university tradition. Today too our 
community carries  on to promote patriotism, solidarity, humanity and tolerance in succe ssive  
generations of  students, cultivating the University's heritage and the best of its traditions, taking 
care to preserve the unbroken adherence to recognized values and maintain the integrity of its 
47  achievements. Its political impartiality notwithstanding, the Warsaw University of Technology 
retained its own identity as an institution taking an active part in public life, strivi ng  
as far as  possible to provide the young people of our day with equal opportunities to gain  
an education.  
The Warsaw University of Technology is an academic institution of higher learning, shaping 
the  future social elites − educated people with a broad outlook on the world, conscious of their 
own views but also understanding and respecting the world views of others. The University not 
only shapes  the minds of its student s but also forges their characters, awakens in them the kind 
of creative attitudes engineers should display, furnishing them not only with knowledge but also 
with skills. Knowledge is best impa rted by those who actively expand it, and skills  
passed on by  those who had to learn them through practice.  
Education and scientific research are activities targeting the future, requiring a vision of society 
and an idea of the individual and collective needs in the times to come. Accordingly, 
the  University must anticipate the roads mankind will be embarking on and the future course 
of  global economic and cultural relations evolution. An academic institution of higher education 
will be in a position to  play the role of an intellectual cent re, a place where the increasingly 
faster changing reality may be taken stock of only if it understands the contemporary world 
around it and has a vision of the future. The ever greater complexity of the world around  
us requires technical higher education schools to increasingly transcend  their teaching curricula 
and research the classical boundaries of engineering disciplines, to open up more to exact  
and natural sciences as well as to sciences dealing with the soci o-economic environment.  
The pace of change we are witnessing has prompted the University to include the promotion  
of life -long education and the creation of condition s it requires among vital constituents  
of its mission.  
The Warsaw University of Technol ogy is a community of students and teachers. Its unity stood 
well the test of history. Whenever faced with a challenge − the need to speak out on matters 
of  public import, or looming danger − the community members instantly set aside their mutual 
animosities, turned a blind eye to differences in opinion, promptly rallied around the same ideas 
and took united action, placing the common good at the top of their priorities. The sensitivity 
which naturally characterizes young people requires special emphasis to be placed 
on  fundamental principles and value systems. The community of the University must provide 
models of good conduct in both academic and public life and must also be exceptionally 
sensitive to every manifestation of evil and indecency, and especially to every violation 
of  human dignity and every deviation from truth in a bid to further individual or group interests.  
In its operations the Warsaw University of Technology attaches speci al importance to respect 
for human and civic rights and to academic freedoms. Every member of its community is free 
to express his or her thoughts, evaluations and convictions while respecting ethical principles 
and the law. The academic staff enjoy freedo m in undertaking research and publishing the results 
thereof, and are guaranteed a role in drafting teaching curricula. Students of the Warsaw 
University of Technology share in decision -making with regard to every aspect of their school, 
and are indeed the mselves alone responsible for some areas of its operation.  
All students and staff, together and separately, are required to safeguard the good reputation 
of  the Warsaw University of Technology. Such is the tradition of the University, passed on from 
gener ation to generation. The Warsaw University of Technology staff are expected to spare 
no  time looking after their undergraduate and postgraduate students, to keep up credibility  
48  of the written and spoken word, and have regard for the reputation of the Uni versity when 
conducting their research. The students are required to honestly apply themselves to their studies 
and properly represent their University at all times, both within and beyond its walls. 
The  Warsaw University of Technology maintains ties with  its graduates, expecting them 
to  demonstrate dignified attitudes in professional and public life, to add to the achievements 
of  the University and to continue upholding its tradition s. 
Academic activity hinges on creativity in research, teaching and stu dy. Creative attitudes cannot 
develop and be passed on to future generations without freedom. The Warsaw University 
of  Technology must thus remain an autonomous institution of learning. While invoking  
the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy of higher ed ucation institutions along with  
the applicable laws and its own statutes as the legal basis of its operation, the University makes 
use of its autonomy to determine and implement its own strategy and development policy,  
all the while respecting the requir ement of openness in the public domain. Autonomy offers 
rights but also brings with it obligations and responsibility. Autonomy is the right  
to independently formulate the University's mission but also the responsibility to provide 
education in line with the needs and expectations of the public; it means independence  
in selecting research tasks and responsibility for the property and budget in its trust; finally,  
it is the right to shape the minds and characters of academic staff and also the responsibil ity  
for the weight of the diplomas it  confers.  
The Warsaw University of Technology works in partnership with other higher education 
institutions in Warsaw which are particularly close to it in nature. Together, these schools strive 
to provide a mutually complementary educational and research package. The Warsaw University 
of Technology also boasts a rich tradition in cooperation with other academic centr es in Poland 
and abroad. Such cooperation is becoming increasingly important in the face of acceleratin g 
civilizational changes worldwide. The Warsaw University of Technology, recognized in Europe 
and around the world, is steadily increasing its contribution to international educational  
and research projects.  
The mission of the Warsaw University of Technol ogy always remains the same : the knowledge 
and skills imparted to its students and the research  it conducts must always serve humankind.  
