WSU SYSTEM  
STRATEGIC PLAN
2020-2025
WASHINGTON STATE
UNIVERSITY
Fall 2022 Update
CONTENTS
4 ⊲ ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMERICA’S FIRST PEOPLES  
6 ⊲ FROM THE PRESIDENT
8 ⊲ INTRODUCTION
10 ⊲  WSU HISTORY AND EVOLUTION TO A STATEWIDE SYSTEM
14 ⊲  THE WSU SYSTEM TODAY
16 ⊲  ONE WSU—WSU SYSTEM OPERATING PRINCIPLES
18 ⊲  THE STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS
22 ⊲  WSU’S CORE IDEOLOGY
24 ⊲  ENVISIONED FUTURE
26 ⊲  VIVID DESCRIPTIONS
30 ⊲  ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT THE RELEVANT FUTURE
33 ⊲  3-5 YEAR OUTCOME-ORIENTED GOALS
34 ⊲  Goal 1: Research, Innovation, and Creativity
35 ⊲  Goal 2: Student Experience
36 ⊲ Goal 3: Outreach, Extension, Service, and Engagement
37 ⊲ Goal 4: Institutional Effectiveness and Infrastructure
38 ⊲ APPENDIX
39 ⊲ 1: WSU SYSTEM LOCATIONS
40 ⊲ 2: CAMPUS PROFILES
42 ⊲ 3: STRATEGIC PLAN METRICS
44 ⊲ 4:  DEFINITION OF PLANNING TERMS
45 ⊲ 5: STRATEGIC PLANNING KEY STEPS AND TIMELINE
46 ⊲ 6: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND INSTITUTIONAL 
EFFECTIVENESS COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP
Photos courtesy WSU Photo Services and  
communication units from each WSU campus.
2 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN3
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
OF AMERICA’S FIRST 
PEOPLES
Washington State University acknowledges that its 
locations statewide are on the homelands of Native 
peoples, who have lived in this region from time 
immemorial. 
Washington State University acknowledges that 
its locations statewide are on the homelands of 
Native peoples, who have lived in this region 
from time immemorial. There are 37 federally 
recognized Tribes that historically shared their 
traditional homelands and waterways in what is 
now Washington State. Of these, 29 are federally 
recognized Tribes in Washington with the remaining 
Tribes in Idaho, Montana, and Oregon, some of 
which represent multiple tribes and bands.
The University expresses its deepest respect for 
and gratitude towards these original and current 
caretakers of the region. As an academic community, 
we acknowledge our responsibility to establish 
and maintain relationships with these tribes and Native peoples, in support of tribal sovereignty and 
the inclusion of their voices in teaching, research 
and programming. Washington State University 
established the Office of Tribal Relations and Native 
American Programs to guide us in our relationship 
with tribes and service to Native American students 
and communities. We also pledge that these 
relationships will consist of mutual trust, respect, and 
reciprocity.
As a land grant institution, we also recognize that the 
Morrill Act of 1862 established land-grant institutions 
by providing each state with “public” and federal 
lands, which are traced back to the dispossession 
of Indigenous lands. In 1890, Washington State 
received 90,081 acres of Indigenous Lands 
4 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
Tribes and Nations whose Homelands are in 
Washington State
All tribes are federally recognized, except for those 
marked with an asterisk *, which non-federally 
recognized. Some of the non-federally recognized tribes 
are in the process of becoming recognized.
Washington  
Chinook Indian Tribe*  
Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation  
Confederated Tribes of the Chehalis Reservation  
Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation  
Cowlitz Indian Tribe  
Duwamish Tribe *  
Hoh Indian Tribe  
Jamestown S’Klallam Tribe  
Kalispel Tribe of Indians  
Kikiallus Indian Nation*  
Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe  
Lummi Nation  
Makah Tribe  
Marietta Band of Nooksack Tribe*  
Muckleshoot Indian Tribe  
Nisqually Indian Tribe  
Nooksack Indian Tribe  
Port Gamble S’Klallam Tribe  
Puyallup Tribe of Indians  
Quileute Tribe  
Quinault Indian Nation  
Samish Indian Nation  
Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe  
Shoalwater Bay Tribe  
Skokomish Indian Tribe  
Snohomish Tribe*  
Snoqualmie Tribe  
Snoqualmoo Nation*  
Spokane Tribe of Indians  
Squaxin Island Tribe  
Steilacoom Tribe*  
Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians  
Suquamish Tribe  
Swinomish Indian Tribal Community  
Tulalip Tribes  
Upper Skagit Tribe
Idaho  
Coeur d’Alene Tribe  
Kootenai Tribes of Idaho  
Nez Perce Tribe
Montana  
Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes
Oregon  
Confederated Tribes of Umatilla  
Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs  
Confederated Tribes of Grand Rondedesignated to establish Washington 
State University (see data). 
Washington State University retains 
the majority of these lands to this 
day. We acknowledge that the 
disposition of Indigenous lands was 
often taken by coercive and violent 
acts, and the disregard of treaties. 
For that, we extend our deepest 
apologies. We owe our deepest 
gratitude to the Native peoples 
of this region and maintain our 
commitment towards reconciliation.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
5
FROM THE PRESIDENT
6 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

Charting a Course for the  
Washington State University 
System
The world that has shaped Washington State University 
over the past 130 years is changing more rapidly than ever. 
Societal, technological, economic, and cultural upheaval is 
constant. 
As we chart the future course of our statewide system in 
the midst of this dynamic environment—an environment 
made more dynamic than we ever imagined due to the 
impact of COVID-19—we must evolve and adapt on a 
constant basis to maintain the University’s relevancy and 
value to society. We must expand on our ability to meet 
the future needs of the state of Washington, the Pacific 
Northwest, our nation, and beyond. We must serve the 
public good in new and innovative ways. Our 2020–2025 
system strategic plan sets out the framework for us to do 
exactly that. The plan builds on our overarching institutional 
vision: 
Washington State University will deepen and expand 
its impact by building on the strengths of each campus 
and location for a stronger Washington state and 
global community.
We have made much progress in the past few years in 
key areas that support our vision. The number of faculty 
receiving prestigious national awards is growing. Our 
research and development funding is at record levels. We 
are enrolling incredible students from around the world. 
We continue to build new relationships and partnerships 
with communities and stakeholders across the state that 
advance the public good. In creating this first-ever strategic 
plan focused on the WSU system, we have articulated the 
purpose, values, vision, and goals that connect all of our 
functions; all of our campuses, colleges, and units; and all 
of our stakeholders to our mission. We still have much work 
to do in this regard, but I am convinced this plan will enable  
 
  
 
 
us to leverage our statewide resources and apply them in 
powerful new ways to benefit the state.
Notably, this plan focuses on our university’s land-grant 
mission and how we can best fulfil it at every level of our 
organization. One of our institutional strengths is providing 
access to higher education for students who have not yet 
had the opportunity to reach their full potential; we know 
better positioning each campus, college, and unit will 
allow them to make a stronger impact. By recognizing and 
building on the strengths that make us unique, WSU can 
better educate students, conduct scholarly inquiry, and 
share expertise and knowledge.
In determining the success of this plan, we will measure 
progress using metrics (see Appendix 3) that matter most 
to the fulfillment of our mission, such as the social mobility 
of students and our institutional impact on communities. 
We will measure the quality, not simply the quantity, of our 
actions.
As we proceed, this strategic plan also will guide us 
in making key institutional decisions and allocating 
resources. We will revisit the plan annually by engaging 
in conversations with our community, reviewing the 
checkpoints we establish to measure progress, and 
adjusting our objectives and strategies as the needs of the 
University evolve and the environment in which we operate 
as a system changes.
My sincere thanks to the entire WSU community, which 
participated at an unprecedented level, in crafting this plan. 
I hope you feel as energized about the future of the WSU 
system as I do. In a world being dramatically reshaped by 
the coronavirus pandemic, Washington State University’s 
ability to improve lives has never been more important.
KIRK SCHULZ  
President  
Washington State University System
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
7

When the Northwest Commission on 
Colleges and Universities (NWCCU) 
reaffirmed Washington State 
University’s accreditation in August 
2018, the accrediting organization 
recognized the university’s 
institutional accomplishments during 
the review period by including several 
commendations in its final report. The 
commendations praised WSU for its: 
 ⊲transparency and inclusiveness in 
decision-making; 
 ⊲sense of loyalty within the WSU 
community;
 ⊲efforts to improve student access 
and success, especially among 
underrepresented groups;
 ⊲assessment of student learning 
outcomes; 
 ⊲commitment to cutting-edge 
instructional approaches; and 
 ⊲thematic approach to scholarship. 
The 2020–2025 WSU system 
strategic plan capitalizes on 
these strengths and builds on the 
momentum that produced these 
commendations. Most notably, this 
plan is the result of a collaborative effort by the university community 
to generate a collective vision of the 
“future WSU” and articulate goals 
and strategies that will move the 
WSU system toward that vision. It 
represents a synthesis of the most 
ambitious, challenging, and impactful 
ideas generated by the university’s 
statewide community during an 
18-month-long planning process. It is a 
truly collectively written road map for 
the future.
This plan also emphasizes WSU’s 
commitment to its land-grant mission:
 ⊲education for all regardless of 
means or background;
 ⊲scholarly activity that benefits 
the public and especially 
Washingtonians; and 
 ⊲outreach to the residents of 
the state to share the institution’s 
expertise and positively impact 
people and communities. 
WSU is the state’s land-grant 
research institution within the state 
of Washington and is responsible 
for delivering a statewide impact. 
The university system embraces this responsibility, and it is central 
to everything the institution does. 
The framework for this plan is thus 
WSU’s commitment to the wellbeing 
of Washington residents and the 
commerce of the state, and a long-
term goal around which this plan is 
oriented is for the university to be 
recognized as among the best land-
grant institutions in the nation. 
INTRODUCTION 
8 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

Some might question why WSU, or any 
institution of higher learning, needs 
a strategic plan when the institution’s 
responsibilities are so clearly laid out: 
educate students, engage in scholarly 
inquiry, and share expertise with the 
public. In fact, the strategic plan serves 
as a guide to help the university make 
informed decisions about resource 
allocation and program development. It 
is also the university’s primary means of 
tracking and demonstrating performance 
to stakeholders and legislators. It is 
not sufficient to conclude that WSU 
is meeting its responsibilities simply 
because students graduate and residents 
enroll in outreach programs and faculty 
produce scholarly works. The quality of 
the institution’s performance must also 
be considered. This plan includes a set 
of outcome metrics (see Appendix 3) that 
are calibrated to specific aspects of WSU’s 
responsibilities to help the institution 
determine what it is doing well and in 
which areas it can improve. These metrics 
will be analyzed yearly and the analyses 
will be published in an annual public report 
that is made widely available. A strategic 
plan is, then, necessary as WSU continues 
to grow and improve. 
This plan also articulates goals and 
strategies for growth and excellence in 
education, scholarly work, and outreach. 
For the first time, it also specifies a goal to 
fully integrate and take advantage of the 
expertise that resides across the entire 
university system, as well as a number of 
strategies to accomplish this goal. The 
WSU system is one of distributed expertise 
and the university’s larger goals can only 
be realized by taking full advantage of this 
expertise. The goals in all four areas of 
this plan are ambitious. Some may seem 
overly so. If some indeed prove to be too 
ambitious, falling short in those areas will 
still lead to meaningful improvements that 
can be built upon in the next strategic 
plan.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
9
Washington State University: 
The People’s University, 
1890-2020
Who could have imagined the bright 
future that awaited Washingtonians 
in 1890 when Governor Elisha P. 
Ferry signed legislation creating an 
agricultural college and science school 
that led to the establishment of WSU 
on a wind-swept hilltop in Pullman, 
Washington?
From those early days, when the 
Washington Agricultural College 
and School of Science consisted 
of a one story, thirty-six by sixty-
foot structure, Washington State 
University has evolved to become 
one of the nation’s premier land-grant 
universities, a statewide enterprise 
of more than 31,000 students, 6,000-plus employees, and a nearly $400 
million annual research operation. 
The university’s ten degree-granting 
academic colleges offer almost 250 
undergraduate and graduate degrees, 
with many academic programs top-
ranked nationally.
That the university has evolved 
from its humble roots to become a 
valued partner in growing the state’s 
economy and improving the quality 
of life for its residents is testimony 
to the achievements of the faculty, 
researchers, staff, and administrators 
who have worked to make the dream 
established 130 years ago an ongoing 
reality.
Along the path to achieving a 
remarkable record of public service, 
WSU has demonstrated an ongoing 
commitment to the land-grant principle of providing access to higher 
education—often acting in advance of 
its peers in this regard. For example, 
the first student of color attended WSU 
in 1906, when Ihei Yamauchi enrolled 
to study civil engineering. The College 
of Veterinary Medicine graduated 
its first African American student in 
1920—a time during which few African 
Americans attended colleges in the 
U.S., let alone a veterinary college. 
Similarly, the first woman graduated 
from the veterinary college in 1933, an 
era in which fewer than four percent of 
women in the country completed four 
years of college or more.
Looking back, the university’s progress 
can perhaps best be summarized by 
reviewing its major achievements 
on the basis of four major stages of 
development.WSU HISTORY AND EVOLUTION TO 
A STATEWIDE SYSTEM
10 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

The Early Days
The fledging school opened its 
doors in 1892 to 59 students who 
reflected the egalitarian principles 
set out in the Morrill Act that created 
the nation’s land-grant institutions. 
The students were not from wealthy 
families. Instead, they were the sons 
and daughters of farmers, laborers, 
and shopkeepers, representatives of 
America’s working and middle classes. 
WSU’s third president, Enoch A. Bryan, 
who served as president from 1893 
to 1915, set the direction for the new 
college to become a higher education 
institution with a comprehensive 
curriculum, expanding its academic 
breadth beyond agriculture and 
science to include disciplines such as 
pharmacy, veterinary medicine, and 
the liberal arts. The effort culminated 
in the renaming of the school to the 
State College of Washington, or WSC, 
in 1905.
A Period of Growth
The period between 1915 and 1945 
can best be characterized as a period 
of growth for the college, both in 
academics and student life. 
In 1917, under the direction of President 
Ernest O. Holland, five colleges 
(agriculture, home economics, 
mechanic arts and engineering, 
sciences and arts, and veterinary 
science) and four schools (education, 
mines, music and applied design, and 
pharmacy) were created, key steps 
toward eventual designation as a 
university. Similar growth occurred 
in campus facilities, as modern laboratories, classrooms, and dining 
facilities were constructed.
The college obtained a chapter of 
Phi Beta Kappa, the nation’s oldest 
and best known national honorary 
society, in 1929, recognition of WSC’s 
commitment to the liberal arts as well 
as to practical education. 
Enrollment during the 30-year 
period rose and fell in tandem with 
the country’s economic fortunes, 
reaching a record of 4,035 students 
in 1940, only to fall steadily as World 
War II engulfed the nation, eventually 
dropping to 1,530 students in 
September 1945. 
Achieving University Status
With the end of World War II and 
the return of military veterans from 
overseas, enrollment ballooned to 
more than 6,000 students beginning 
in the late 1940s. The increase 
in students spurred a period of 
substantial growth on the Pullman 
campus that included construction 
of a new library, expanded faculty 
research, and the establishment of 
general education requirements in 
the humanities, social sciences, and 
natural sciences.
The maturation of the college was 
formally recognized on September 
1, 1959, when WSC was renamed 
Washington State University. The new 
name recognized the reality that WSC 
featured multiple colleges offering 
both undergraduate and graduate 
studies, increasingly notable research, 
and a growing role in addressing the 
needs of the state.The growth curve accelerated from the 
mid-60s to the mid-80s. Enrollment 
increased by more than 50 percent 
from 1967 to 1985, to 16,500 students. 
Research grants mushroomed from 
$11 million to $68.5 million during 
the same period, a reflection of the 
priority placed on faculty research 
and scholarship. Areas of academic 
emphasis ranged from veterinary 
medicine to the biological sciences, 
nursing, the humanities, and social 
sciences.
Expanding Access to Education 
Statewide
The reach of WSU’s mission expanded 
significantly in 1989, when the 
university’s statewide campus system 
was established under former WSU 
President Samuel Smith in response to 
a request from the state government 
for Washington State University and 
the University of Washington to offer 
education at multiple locations around 
the state to serve place-bound and 
job-bound students. WSU located 
campuses in Vancouver, the Tri-
Cities (Richland), and Spokane, with 
Spokane being a cooperative venture 
with Eastern Washington University. 
Creation of new WSU learning centers 
located statewide and the extended 
degree programs further expanded 
access to the university.
The three regional campuses originally 
offered upper-division classes only 
and thus began as destinations for 
transfer students, which necessitated 
establishing strong relations with 
local community colleges—a robust 
partnership that continues today. As 
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
11
enrollment grew throughout the 1990s, 
the campuses gained greater flexibility 
to serve the needs of the communities 
in which they were located. As an 
example, responding to community 
wishes, WSU Vancouver welcomed its 
first freshman class in fall 2006. WSU 
Tri-Cities followed suit in fall 2007. 
In 2011 the Spokane campus was 
designated by the university’s Board 
of Regents as WSU Health Sciences 
Spokane, and the campus now is 
predominately focused on professional 
education and health research. 
A campus in Everett was added in 2014 
to meet the higher education needs 
of the north Puget Sound area. WSU 
Everett remains a transfer campus. 
Instructional sites now also exist in 
Bremerton, Yakima, and Walla Walla. 
The WSU Global Campus, through 
its online programs, extends the 
university’s land-grant mission 
worldwide to those who increasingly 
require a high level of flexibility while 
pursuing a quality education.
During the past decade, WSU’s 
impact has reached unprecedented 
levels. Records have been set in enrollment, fundraising, and research 
expenditures. The university completed 
30 major construction projects from 
2007 to 2015, including one of the 
world’s most technologically advanced 
wine science centers at WSU Tri-Cities 
and the Paul G. Allen School for Global 
Animal Health at WSU Pullman. 
In one of the most historic 
achievements in WSU’s history, the 
Washington state legislature in 2015 
granted approval for the university to 
establish a medical school on the WSU 
Spokane Health Sciences campus. 
Adhering to the land-grant tradition, 
the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine 
seeks to expand access to health care 
in under-served communities across 
Washington and increase the ability 
of Washingtonians to earn a medical 
degree without leaving the state.
Planning for the Future
Shortly after beginning his tenure 
as WSU’s 11th president on June 13, 
2016, current WSU President Kirk 
Schulz announced the Drive to 25, 
a system-wide initiative designed to 
elevate WSU to recognized status 
as one of the nation’s top 25 public research universities. The objectives of 
the Drive to 25 are guiding decisions 
about institutional goals, priorities, 
and resource allocations affecting 
the university’s teaching, research, 
and service mission. As such, the 
Drive to 25 served as a road map for 
the creation of the 2020-2025 WSU 
system plan.
As WSU system leadership worked 
toward the Drive to 25, it became 
apparent that the WSU system needed 
to be organized in a way that would 
make this level of progress and impact. 
With a focus on the OneWSU concept 
introduced in the 2020-2025 WSU 
system plan, a new vision statement 
was implemented in Fall of 2022. With 
a focus on leveraging the OneWSU 
system structure, the new vision is 
grounded in WSU’s land-grant mission 
and deepening the university’s impact.
12 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

EDUCATIONAL MISSIONPresident Schulz and then Provost Daniel 
Bernardo appointed a 24-member task force 
made up of faculty, staff, and students from 
throughout the system to lead the planning 
process. The president and provost co-chaired 
the group, the Strategic Planning and Institutional 
Effectiveness Council (SPIEC), which met 
monthly to guide development of the plan and to 
ensure ongoing input from the entire university 
community and WSU stakeholders.
The process of creating the first comprehensive 
strategic plan that encompasses the WSU system 
has included significant interactive involvement 
by WSU faculty, staff, and students system-wide 
as well as alumni, community partners, and other 
university stakeholders. Input gathering occurred 
through participation in open listening sessions, 
online postings, mass digital communications, 
and two major university events attended by a 
total of more than 1,200 participants.  2025 WSU System Strategic Plan
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
13

THE WSU SYSTEM TODAY
Guided by Our Land-grant Identity
Washington State University is the land-grant research institution for the state of 
Washington. Land-grant schools are uniquely charged by the federal government 
with educating students from a broad range of backgrounds, conducting scholarly 
inquiry in the “practical arts,” and actively sharing their expertise and knowledge 
with the state’s residents. 
Today WSU functions as a statewide system. The land-grant identity remains core 
to the university’s functioning, and the institution’s achievements in this regard are 
significant. WSU has a decades-long reputation for development of wheat strains 
that can grow under a variety of challenging conditions. More recently, among 
other accomplishments, university researchers have developed a method to create 
3D-printed bone implants; established a nationally recognized bread research 
facility that helps wheat farmers make informed decisions about which varieties to 
grow; created and refined a measure designed to reduce the potential of school 
truancies that has been adopted statewide; and created a web-based pesticide 
education resource accessible to the public. On a yearly basis about one-third 
of WSU’s freshman class consists of first generation college students, and the 
university provides extensive and all-encompassing support to help students adjust 
to college life. The university maintains Extension offices in each of the state’s 
39 counties, and more than 1 million people participate annually in the programs 
offered through these offices. WSU research centers also are located in Mount 
Vernon, Prosser, Puyallup, and Wenatchee, all key agricultural areas.
Importantly, while developing the multi-campus system WSU retained its college-
based academic structure under which a single department chair or school director 
is responsible for all faculty in the unit regardless of where they reside, and a single 
dean is responsible for all units in the college. This means that all faculty, regardless 
of work location, must meet the same standards for tenure and promotion. Deans 
share responsibility and authority for departments, schools, or academic programs 
offered jointly across two or more colleges. Deans share responsibility with 
chancellors for the success of components of departments, programs, or schools 
residing on another campus. 
While acknowledging the existing academic structure, the university recognizes 
the need for and increasing value of multidisciplinary research. The complex 
societal problems that exist can only be adequately addressed through the input of 
individuals from many different disciplines. Academic administrators and those faced 
with funding decisions will need to continue identifying mechanisms that properly 
support critical research that cuts across existing academic structures. 
The institution operates as an integrated university system, with all campuses 
adhering to the same set of goals, practices, and policies—known as One WSU. For 
example:
 ⊲degree requirements are similar across campuses; 
 ⊲all instructors and researchers, regardless of their location, are considered part 
of one faculty; and, 
 ⊲the offices of student affairs and finance and administration are regarded as 
distinct but highly integrated components of the same administrative divisions. 
The university has been redefining its administrative and operational structures 
to ensure delivery of an integrated set of services, while allowing each campus 
autonomy via the leadership of the chancellor and a clearly defined identity.
14 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

Growth in the Twenty-first Century
In the wake of the 2008-09 recession, WSU experienced rapid growth 
in enrollment and now has a record-large student body, with 31,607 
students enrolled across the six campuses for fall semester 2019. As well, 
the university embarked on an ambitious expansion campaign during the 
past decade that expanded its statewide footprint, establishing a world-
renowned center for the study of animal-to-human disease transmission, 
launching a medical school in Spokane in response to critical statewide 
shortages in primary care physicians, creating the Everett campus, 
initiating construction of a five-building life sciences complex in Pullman, 
and opening a wine science center at the Tri-Cities campus. WSU thus 
has made some notable strides in establishing itself as a top-tier public 
university that remains true to its land-grant mission.
The state of Washington has one of the more robust economies in the 
nation, and since 2014 has yearly experienced a positive net migration 
in excess of 50,000 people. The state Office of Financial Management 
expects the state’s population to increase by 1.6 million people by 2040. 
The educational consulting firm of Ruffalo Noel Levitz predicts Washington 
to have the fourth-largest increase among all states in high school 
graduates between 2020 and 2030. For this rapidly growing population 
the state provides only six public universities to accommodate the 
educational needs of its residents, and only two of those, the University 
of Washington and Washington State University, are charged with active 
engagement in scholarly productivity. Further, WSU is directed to employ 
its expertise in the service of the economic and societal needs of state 
residents, through its research and outreach programs. Demand for 
educational access by Washingtonians will, then, continue to grow through 
at least 2040. WSU must pursue continual and unbroken growth in 
enrollment.
As a system, the university has extensive resources to sustain and 
develop the state of Washington. Each campus offers a distinctive learning 
environment to equip students with knowledge and life-long skills, while 
the resources of a globally-engaged research university provide a wealth 
of opportunities across the system to advance and translate knowledge 
and model creativity, and many units work with the broader community to 
address critical issues in Washington and throughout the world. To build 
the collective future of the WSU system, this strategic plan highlights and 
connects the distinctive strengths and forms of excellence that exist across 
the university.
Excellence takes many forms that merit the university’s shared investment. 
The WSU system provides Washingtonians with access to outstanding 
liberal arts education, hands-on learning experiences in fields, labs, and 
community centers, and research and educational experiences. Through 
preparing educators and health care providers, providing opportunities 
that expand cultural understanding and enrich lives, and fueling economic 
development, WSU shapes future leaders and strengthens communities. 
This plan highlights the institution’s strategic intentions related to 
educational development, scholarly research and creative work, and 
partnering with Washington communities. It also outlines next steps that 
will allow the university to be even more responsive to the challenges 
facing Washington’s towns and cities, the state and nation, and the world.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
15
ONE WSU
WSU SYSTEM 
OPERATING 
PRINCIPLES
In a world defined equally by tremendous 
opportunities and rapid change, the vision 
of the Washington State University system 
is built on the foundational purposes of the 
land-grant university: to provide education 
to all, to conduct scholarly inquiry that 
benefits society, and to share expertise 
that boosts the lives of individuals and 
communities.
The WSU system’s focus on academic 
excellence for the public good goes hand-
in-hand with the university’s commitment to 
diversity, equity, and inclusion. It is central to 
the institution’s mission that each member of 
the community has full opportunity to thrive.
The principles that follow establish an 
overarching philosophy that unites the WSU 
system and provides clarity and consistency 
for guiding the institution’s day-to-day 
actions. Some of the principles currently 
are operative while others are aspirational. 
The principles are specific enough to be 
meaningful, yet broad enough to remain 
relevant in an evolving environment. 
Adopted and practiced consistently across 
the WSU system, the principles will enable 
the University to act on its core ideology and 
progress toward its envisioned future.
16 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
One WSU
WSU delivers its educational, research, and 
outreach benefits statewide through its campuses 
and other locations statewide, including Pullman, 
Everett, Seattle, Spokane, Tri-Cities, Vancouver, 
Yakima, and Bremerton. In addition, the WSU 
Global Campus delivers academic programming 
worldwide in a virtual environment. The university 
focuses on critical problems and issues affecting 
the state of Washington, partnering with 
stakeholders to discuss and develop solutions. 
WSU sustains and enhances community-campus 
relationships in all locations. One Degree
The quality of a Washington State University 
degree will be the same at all campuses throughout 
the statewide system.  All graduates earn a WSU 
diploma with no campus designation.
Shared Accountability
WSU vice presidents, chancellors, and deans and 
their leadership teams each have unique and 
connected leadership roles that may encompass 
campus, college, unit responsibilities, as well as 
WSU system responsibilities, and are collectively 
accountable for the success of the institution and 
the system. 
Fiscal Stewardship
WSU’s system-wide budget model supports student 
success and academic excellence in alignment 
with the university’s system strategic plan and the 
institution’s shared mission and purpose. All WSU 
campuses, colleges, and other units operate within 
their authorized budgets, and are responsible for 
achieving fiscal, enrollment, and operating goals, as 
well as developing new sources of revenue that will 
fund future investments.
Data-informed Decision-making
WSU proactively uses data in decision-making 
to enhance administrative efficiency and 
strategic leadership across the system. Strategic 
priorities, environmental sustainability, financial 
sustainability, resource allocations, transparency, 
and predictability are all based on data-informed 
performance indicators and metrics.Community Partnerships
WSU seeks out and embraces opportunities to 
partner with external stakeholders in an effort to 
solve the critical problems and issues that face 
the state of Washington and its residents. The 
university also encourages the development of 
entrepreneurial activities that lead to creative, 
solutions-oriented partnerships. WSU sustains and 
enhances community-university relations statewide.Operational Excellence
WSU operates an efficient and effective 
organizational structure, characterized by system-
wide operational and management processes that 
support and promote innovation, stewardship, 
entrepreneurship, and responsible risk taking. WSU 
core services, compliance, educational, executive, 
and business policies ensure organizational 
efficiency and effectiveness across the system. One Faculty
All faculty, regardless of rank or appointment, 
are committed to the same standard of academic 
excellence across the system. The standards for 
faculty career advancement are fundamentally 
shared at all WSU campuses, ensuring a 
consistent level of educational experience and 
interdisciplinary scholarly quality and productivity 
system-wide.
17
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
THE STRATEGIC  
PLANNING PROCESS
A Model for Planning and Thinking Strategically
The Washington State University 2020-2025 system strategic plan describes a desired vision and the elements essential 
to achieving that vision. The plan is grounded in core ideology and driven by an envisioned future that realizes the full 
potential of WSU’s ability to support its faculty, staff, and students. The university’s commitment is articulated in goals that 
declare the outcomes or attributes the organization intends to achieve. Objectives represent key metrics affecting WSU’s 
ability to achieve a goal and articulate the direction in which these issues must be moved.
The university system must continue to evolve to meet the needs of the constantly changing environment in which it 
operates. Therefore, underlying this plan is the adoption of an ongoing process of planning and thinking strategically, 
designed to ensure relevance of direction and action over time.
This strategic plan reflects a model that organizes conversations about the future into four distinct planning “horizons.” This 
helps organizations in setting and implementing priorities as well as in ensuring relevance of long-range direction over time.
Core Ideology and Envisioned Future
The four planning “horizons” framework consists of crafting 
a comprehensive strategic direction based on the balance 
between what doesn’t change—the timeless principles 
of the organization’s core purpose and core values (core 
ideology)—and what the organization seeks to become 
within a ten-year horizon—what would be possible beyond 
the restraints of the current environment. The ten-year 
horizon is characterized by the articulation of an envisioned 
future—an aspirational goal—and a vivid description—what it 
will be like to achieve the goal.Assumptions About the Future 
The articulation of the envisioned future guides the 
organization as it considers the factors that will affect its 
ability to achieve its goals. Building foresight about the five-
to ten-year horizon—assumptions, opportunities, and critical 
uncertainties in the likely relevant future as well as emerging 
strategic mega-issues—suggests critical choices about the 
potential barriers the organization will face. This foresight 
also suggests the responses the organization will need to 
consider in navigating its way toward achievement of its 
aspirational goal.
18 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

Strategic and Operational 
Planning
The linkage continues into the three-
to five-year horizon through the 
development of a formal long-range 
strategic plan, in which WSU articulates 
the outcomes it seeks to achieve for 
its faculty, staff, students, alumni, and 
other stakeholders. How will the world 
be different as a result of what the 
organization does? Who will benefit 
and what will the likely results be? 
Further, the articulation of strategies 
will bring focus to the organization’s 
annual operational allocation of 
discretionary resources. Action plans, 
checkpoints, and milestones will 
be developed through a process 
of operational planning, indicating 
progress toward each goal in every 
planning year.
A strategic long-range plan is not 
intended as a substitute for an annual 
operating plan. A strategic plan does 
not detail all the initiatives, programs, 
and activities the organization will 
undertake in the course of serving its 
members, stakeholders, and industry, 
nor can it foresee changes to the 
underlying assumptions on which 
key strategic choices were based. 
Instead, the system strategic plan focuses on the future and outlines—in 
broad strokes—how WSU will need to 
evolve to succeed. Consequently, the 
strategic plan implies change—doing 
new things or doing more or less of 
current activities to ensure successful 
outcomes. The university’s campuses, 
colleges, and units will further define 
the operational aspects that support 
the framework of this plan, and they 
will also create or revise existing 
plans to complement and build on the 
direction established by the system 
plan.
Ongoing Re-evaluation
Strategic planning for WSU should 
become the methodology for the 
organization’s operations. If it is 
successful, this process will not 
have yielded a plan to be placed on 
the shelf but will have served as a 
catalyst for the process of planning 
strategically at all times and at all levels 
throughout the WSU system. In order 
to achieve its vision, the university 
must not look at strategic long-range 
planning as a one-time project that 
produces a milestone document of its 
best thinking at the moment. Instead, 
the entire WSU system must adopt 
strategic planning as an operational 
philosophy of ongoing re-evaluation of the critical knowledge bases that form 
the framework of its world, including:
 ⊲sensitivity to the needs of its 
constituencies;
 ⊲insight into the future environment;
 ⊲understanding of the capacity and 
strategic position of the organization; 
and
 ⊲effective analysis of the ethical 
implications of policy, program, and 
service choices.
Environmental Scanning
Conducting an Environmental 
Scan 
Environmental scanning is the ongoing 
tracking of trends and occurrences in 
an institution’s internal and external 
environment that bear on its success, 
currently and in the future. The 
results are useful in shaping goals 
and strategies and selecting annual 
priorities. Effective environmental 
scanning examines both quantitative 
and qualitative changes. Ultimately, an 
institution should create a set of key 
environmental indicators—internal, 
external, qualitative, and quantitative—
that have the most important potential 
impact on the work the institution does.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
19
Considering Internal and External Factors
These indicators may include internal issues and trends that are inherent 
to the institution, such as budget issues, enrollment fluctuations, 
fundraising opportunities, and changes in leadership. They may also 
include external factors in the environment outside of the institution that 
are out of the university’s control such as:
 ⊲Demographics —locally, regionally, nationally, and increasingly 
internationally (e.g., population, racial/ethnic mix, immigration status, 
education levels, etc.)
 ⊲Politics and public policy —changes in governmental regulation, 
federal financial aid policies, and public attitudes toward institutions of 
higher education
 ⊲Economies —local, regional, national, and international
 ⊲Labor market —the demand in relevant fields and the associated 
skills desired by employers
 ⊲Academic interests —popular fields and the employment interests of 
prospective students and their families
 ⊲Technology —the increasingly rapid changes that impact nearly 
every aspect of higher education
 ⊲Research —changes in interests and funding from governmental, 
private, and foundation sources
 ⊲Philanthropy —changes in available funding and in the attitudes, 
interests, and approaches of donors
Environmental scanning will be conducted throughout the WSU system 
on an ongoing basis but an environmental scan document will be 
created annually, which will serve as a knowledge base. Strategic plan 
assumptions about the future support annual environmental scanning to 
inform the development of new initiatives, updates to the strategic plan, 
and SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) analysis 
conversations system-wide.
Annual Strategic Plan Review and Update
The WSU system’s strategic long-range plan represents a compass the 
organization will use to guide its work over the next five years. Each 
year of its life, the plan will be updated based on experience or new 
circumstances or as new opportunities or challenges emerge. By 2024 
or sooner, WSU should author a new strategic long-range plan based 
upon the new environment expected to exist in the latter half of the 
decade. 
WSU System-wide Strategic Planning Process—
Campuses, Colleges, and Units
The system strategic plan will serve as the foundational document that 
guides the evolution of WSU’s statewide enterprise from 2020 to 2025. 
The plan reflects the mission of the institution, and it also aligns with, 
and incorporates, other recent institutional planning efforts, including 
initiatives focused on modernization, campus culture, student success, 
and strategic research priorities. WSU’s campuses, colleges, and other 
administrative units will develop or update their unit plans in the coming 
months. Those plans will complement and flesh out the big-picture 
goals, objectives, and strategies established by the framing of the 
system-wide plan.
20 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN21
WSU’S CORE 
IDEOLOGY
Core ideology  describes an organization’s consistent identity 
that transcends all changes related to its relevant environment. 
Core ideology consists of two notions: core mission —the 
organization’s reason for being, and core beliefs and values —
essential and enduring principles that drive the institution. 
 ⊲WSU’s educational mission  
is to help students become 
more informed, aware, 
engaged, and creative—a 
process through which the 
university’s graduates achieve 
upward social mobility. WSU 
strives to make its expertise 
available to anyone who 
seeks to benefit from it, 
regardless of where they live, 
where they come from, what 
they believe, or what their life 
experiences have been.  ⊲WSU’s scholarly mission  
is directed toward the 
betterment of human 
existence through the 
uncovering of new 
information, the discovery of 
how to use that information 
to solve problems, and 
the creative expression of 
human experience. The 
university especially seeks 
to address issues that 
impact Washingtonians, and 
the institution works with 
residents, commerce, and 
lawmakers to identify those 
issues.  ⊲WSU’s outreach mission  
is to serve the needs of 
Washingtonians by sharing 
its expertise and helping 
residents integrate that 
knowledge into their daily 
lives.
Core Mission
Washington State University is a public land-grant research university that is committed to 
the principles of practical education for all, scholarly inquiry that benefits society, and the 
sharing of expertise to positively impact the state and communities. 
22 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
Core Beliefs
 ⊲The university strives to improve lives through the delivery of a practical education  as articulated in 
the Morrill Act of 1862 to establish the land-grant colleges . It welcomes students from all racial and ethnic 
backgrounds, gender identities and sexual orientations, economic backgrounds, students with disabilities, 
veterans, and first-generation students. In short, to paraphrase Congressman Morrill, WSU welcomes the 
sons and daughters of toil. Students with widely differing interests as well as varying levels of college 
preparation are welcome and encouraged to pursue a WSU education. Many transform their lives as a 
result of their university experience. The university seeks greater diversity in its student body. Keeping 
college affordable is implicit in WSU’s focus. The university judges its success by its ability to help students 
become more informed, aware, engaged, creative, and socially mobile. 
 ⊲WSU focuses on improving the human condition through research, scholarship, and artistic activities. 
To address the vast and complex problems confronting the world, the university balances the twin needs 
of continuing the basic research that leads to fundamental discoveries with efforts focused on delivering 
practical solutions to everyday problems faced by communities in the state and beyond. As WSU strives 
to be a force for societal transformation, the university embraces entrepreneurial activities and seeks out 
partnerships that bring together the bold ideas and multidisciplinary expertise required to maximize the 
benefit to stakeholders and residents. 
 ⊲WSU accepts responsibility for enriching the social, economic, and cultural vitality of the region 
through service and outreach.  The university delivers its educational, research, and outreach benefits 
statewide, with a particular emphasis on major population centers including Everett, Seattle, Spokane, 
Tri-Cities, Vancouver, Yakima, and Bremerton. WSU focuses on critical problems and issues affecting the 
state of Washington, partnering with stakeholders to develop solutions to a variety of challenges and spur 
economic prosperity. The university sustains and enhances community-campus relations statewide. 
 ⊲WSU engages globally for the future of the planet. Every aspect of the university’s teaching, research, 
and service mission has global implications—it is inherent in the mission of a Tier 1 national research 
university. All WSU faculty are part of an international community of scholars, so their endeavors potentially 
address a global audience. In serving local communities, WSU develops innovative approaches and 
solutions that can deliver benefits worldwide. Advancing the institution’s global engagement is a critical 
component of future success. 
 ⊲WSU is committed to achieving an ethically and socially just society for all.  Instituting social change 
on a large scale begins at home. The university is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout 
every aspect of its statewide system. In the process a climate will created that enables underrepresented 
students, faculty, and staff to not only survive, but thrive in communities that foster a sense of belonging in 
a culture of inclusion. The ultimate goal? Creation of an institutional culture in which inclusion and equity 
are the norms, a model that helps move the world toward a place in which all people are treated with 
dignity and respect.
Core Values
 ⊲Land-grant ideals. Land-grant ideals of access to practical education for all regardless of background, the 
teaching of skills and knowledge necessary to be an engaged community member, scholarly inquiry for the 
betterment of society, and the sharing of institutional expertise with state residents. 
 ⊲Community. A “Cougar Spirit” in WSU graduates that emphasizes community: both the community in 
which university faculty, staff, and students live and in the one made up of the family of Cougs worldwide.
 ⊲Integrity, trust, and respect. Trust and respect for all persons in an environment that cultivates individual 
and institutional integrity in all that the university does. 
 ⊲Equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging. Promotion of an ethical and socially just society through an 
intentional commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Global citizenship. Stewardship of the planet’s 
resources to ensure its vitality, as well as actions focused on social responsibility and cultural empathy in 
the context of an interconnected world.
 ⊲Freedom of expression. Free exchange of ideas in a constructive and civil environment, including the 
canons of academic freedom in teaching, research, and outreach.
 ⊲Wellbeing. Whole-person wellness for all members of the institution and a belief it is WSU’s responsibility 
to contribute to the overall wellness of our communities and the broader society in which individuals reside. 
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
23
ENVISIONED FUTURE
The envisioned future  conveys a concrete, but as yet unrealized, 
vision for the organization. It consists of an aspirational goal —a clear 
and compelling catalyst that serves as a focal point for effort—and 
vivid descriptions —vibrant and engaging descriptions of what it will be 
like to achieve the aspirational goal.
Vision (aspirational goal)
Washington State University will deepen and expand its impact by building 
on the strengths of each campus and location for a stronger Washington 
state and global community.
24 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN25
26 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
Vivid Descriptions
 ⊲WSU will be a leading land-grant institution, 
as measured by accessibility, affordability, 
graduation rates, and public service.  Land-
grant universities were created to change the 
world, and WSU will model the core principles 
upon which these institutions were founded. 
In the process the university will become a 
national leader in all three areas of its mission, 
setting an example for others to emulate. 
 ⊲WSU will be the university of choice for 
student success.  The university will provide 
an educational experience through which 
students develop their view of themselves and 
the difference they can make in the world. The 
university will have robust resources system-
wide to provide an accessible, affordable, life-
changing education to a diverse student body—
highlighted by experiences, internships, and 
opportunities that will prepare students to be 
contributors and leaders in their communities, 
the state, the nation, and the world. Additional 
resources will better support first-time and 
under-served populations, both urban and rural. 
Innovative teaching will foster a community 
in which students expect to be challenged 
to learn, and to succeed. More students will 
graduate, ready to make a difference in the 
world. They will experience reduced time to 
degree completion, achieve higher graduation 
and placement rates, and earn greater numbers 
of advanced degrees. As a result, interest in 
WSU from prospective students will increase 
substantially. 
 ⊲The university will be a magnet for students 
seeking upward mobility.  The WSU system 
will offer a well-developed suite of resources to 
assist students who have no history of college 
attendance within their family, have significant 
financial need, or have gaps in their preparation 
for higher education. There will be no gap in 
graduation rates based on any demographic 
characteristics.
 ⊲The people of the state of Washington will 
benefit to an even greater degree from the 
benefits the WSU system delivers through 
scientific innovation, research-based program 
delivery, and university-led practical problem 
solving.   WSU will increase the resources and 
improve the internal infrastructure required 
to enrich its ability to serve as a key player in 
solving the problems of the state, the nation, 
and the world. 
 ⊲WSU truly will become the state’s university, 
enhancing opportunities for the state’s 
residents to gain access to its expertise. The 
caliber of the university’s faculty will continue   
 
to grow, and students will receive a exceptional 
education. WSU’s endowment will increase. 
Local economies will improve due to the high 
value human capital the university provides. 
Industry will look with greater frequency to 
WSU as a partner in creating programming 
that supports workforce development. The 
university will strengthen its capabilities  in 
workforce development, innovative research, 
heath care (throughout the state), and 
development opportunities for residents. 
 ⊲WSU’s stature as a university will be 
dramatically elevated.  The university will 
be viewed as one of the top places in the 
United States to learn, teach, and study as it 
grows its reputation for transforming lives and 
bettering society. The institution will receive 
new opportunities for external research 
funding, including enhanced public and private 
partnerships, and most importantly—create 
richer educational experiences for students. 
 ⊲WSU’s research will continue to change 
the state, nation, and world.  System-wide, 
university researchers will be highly visible in 
their communities. World-changing innovations 
developed throughout the WSU system will 
address the challenges of the state, the nation, 
and the world. The impact of WSU’s efforts 
will lead to more community engagement as 
industry and other external stakeholders seek 
to partner with the university. The WSU system 
will have an enhanced ability to assess state 
economic needs and to adapt and provide 
research and education to address those 
needs. Research won’t be only the purview of 
researchers. Every student—undergraduate, 
graduate, or professional, not just those in fields 
labeled “scientific”—will receive the opportunity 
to be involved in research to some degree. As 
WSU proactively addresses and demonstrates 
the benefits of its research in service to society, 
the university’s contributions will play an 
important role in enhancing the reputation of 
higher education from a national perspective. 
An improved reputation for impactful research 
also will assist the recruitment of faculty, staff, 
and students, and research dollars will flow 
to the university at unprecedented levels. In 
fulfilling the land-grant mission, doors will be 
opened to greater collaboration with higher 
educational institutions across the United 
States and beyond. WSU students will benefit 
from international partnerships and exchanges 
that allow them to learn from people worldwide, 
enriching their education and providing insights 
that can be applied in their future careers.  
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
27
Vivid Descriptions (continued)  
 
Both partnerships with corporations and endowments 
will increase, and the WSU system’s structure will 
create greater links between campuses for research 
partnerships. 
 ⊲The WSU system will be a vibrant, diverse, and 
thriving community of scholars, students, and staff, 
known for its integrated and informed campus 
communities.  WSU’s collaborative, integrated multi-
campus system will leverage its strengths to enable each 
component to respond more fully to those they serve 
and to the evolving environment. The WSU system will 
recognize and celebrate the uniqueness of each campus, 
college, and unit, as well as the role each plays in the 
success of the system. Campuses, colleges, and units 
may become known for specific areas of excellence, yet 
all disciplines will play a part in creating a transformative 
student experience. The sum of WSU will be stronger 
because of the way each of the parts will complement the 
system. All components of the system will b enefit from 
the institution’s enhanced and sustainable fiscal health, 
which will provide increased resources to meet needs 
and support growth. WSU will fully embrace and pursue a 
culture of philanthropy, further reducing its dependence 
on state funds. A dramatic increase in the endowment will 
occur. Improved and new facilities, labs, personnel, and 
equipment will create an infrastructure that will allow WSU 
to enhance the benefits of research that serves the public 
good.
 ⊲WSU system-wide will achieve a deeper sense of 
responsiveness to communities statewide due to close 
dialogue and relationships between communities and 
the university focused on co-creation of solutions. As 
a  result,  the campuses will become more integrated 
into their communities. Increased funding of outreach, 
education, and service activities will benefit local 
communities and broaden the institution’s impact 
statewide. These connections will become an institutional 
strength. 
 ⊲Faculty and staff at all locations across the WSU 
system will feel inspired, engaged, and supported 
by the institution as a whole and by each other.  New 
faculty and staff looking for employment will seek to 
join the university, and the satisfaction level of existing 
faculty and staff will reach unprecedented levels due 
to improved salaries and additional opportunities for 
professional development and training. An emphasis 
on shared governance throughout the system will more 
fully incorporate the input of faculty and staff in decisions 
affecting the strategic direction of the institution. 
 ⊲The pride that faculty, staff, students, alumni, and 
communities feel about the university will grow to 
unprecedented levels as they become even more 
engaged in helping WSU grow.  One of the university’s 
biggest strengths is the sense of Cougar Pride. 
“Cougness” exists system-wide—at every college, 
campus, and unit. It lifts the WSU community when challenges arise. It drives fierce loyalty among members 
of the Cougar family—to each other and to serving 
the greater good. Cougar Pride inspires the WSU 
community to fearlessly pursue human advancement. It 
manifests itself when students and alumni rally to raise 
money for hurricane victims or volunteer to do home 
repairs for the elderly. It’s evident when nursing students 
care for the homeless. WSU Athletics magnifies Cougar 
Pride, serving as the front door to WSU and introducing 
thousands of stakeholders to the rest of the university 
and its academic mission. WSU Athletics thus is an 
integral part of the university—nurturing a community 
mindset that is a unique blend of family, pride, and 
work ethic. Cougness provides the fertile soil that 
allows the WSU community to believe that it can make 
positive change in the world. It is at the heart of WSU’s 
institutional ethos. Cougar Pride will drive the WSU 
community to achieve even more in the future.
 ⊲All members of the WSU community will feel 
connected to WSU and understand their ability 
to contribute to the collective vision.  Community 
members will understand that each individual can play 
a significant goal in the university’s vision, regardless 
of rank or position at WSU. The goals and metrics of 
the university will be focused equally on raising WSU’s 
accomplishments in all three phases of the university’s 
land-grant mission: teaching, research, and service. 
WSU will create the culture for operational excellence 
system-wide. It will be an outcome of living institutional 
values, not just a slogan, and the initiative will not 
focus solely on competition with other institutions Each 
college, campus, and unit will be empowered to find 
ways to achieve excellence toward the collective vision.
 ⊲WSU system strategic planning and goals will not 
be static.  Every year, the WSU community system-wide 
will engage in conversations focused on institutional 
actions, progress, and the path forward in fulfilling the 
strategic plan. “We have always done it that way” will not 
be a philosophy that guides future actions. Checkpoints 
for accountability will be established. Students, staff, 
and faculty from each campus, college, and unit will 
be encouraged to provide input on a regular basis. 
Individual units will be able to point to WSU’s mission 
and vision as a guide for strategic decision making 
and resource allocation. The institutional commitment 
to continuous improvement will allow for flexibility and 
change as the needs of the university and students 
evolve, and as the environment in which the system 
operates changes. Throughout, the bottom line focus 
will remain unwavering: to serve the public good. 
28 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN29
ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT THE 
RELEVANT FUTURE
Social, Cultural, and 
Consumer Trends
 ⊲The current political climate which 
has emerged not only on university 
and college campuses but also in 
communities across the country will 
continue to put university administrators 
in a difficult place. One major 
challenge? They will need to strike a 
balance between allowing free speech 
and maintaining a secure and safe 
environment for students, faculty, and 
staff. ⊲The public will continue to scrutinize 
higher education policy and public 
skepticism about the value of higher 
education may place more emphasis 
on ROI (Return on Investment), micro-
credentials, “mini-masters” academic 
programs, non-academic careers, 
and other non-traditional forms of 
education.
 ⊲Students increasingly will view 
themselves as customers and 
consumers, expecting high-quality 
facilities and services that will lead to a 
job. ⊲Society will expect students to 
be able to immediately apply their 
knowledge, which will place a burden 
on institutions to broaden and diversify 
their experiential learning opportunities.
 ⊲The world is changing quickly 
and in complex ways, and the 
pandemic intensified the pressures 
higher education institutions face, 
including changing labor markets and 
unpredictable staffing patterns that 
will result in disruptions to services, 
instruction, advising, and critical 
support areas.Demographics
 ⊲The population of college-aged 
people nationally will continue 
to decline. Unless college-going 
patterns change, many institutions will 
experience large enrollment declines in 
the mid-2020s in line with predictions 
for the number of high school 
graduates.
 ⊲The number of traditional college-
aged students will continue to decline 
nationally, and students over 25 who 
are working full-time (non-traditional 
students) may eventually become the 
majority of the student population in 
higher education.  ⊲The diversity of the population will 
increase, and students will continue 
to come from more diverse economic, 
cultural, and educational backgrounds. 
Generation Zers are more racially 
diverse, with nearly half (48 percent) 
representing African American, Latinx, 
Native American, Pacific Islander, and 
Asian American demographics, among 
other groups. Institutions of all types 
must pursue a student body consisting 
of more students of color, but the 
specifics will differ by institution type 
and geographic location.
 ⊲ Students increasingly will enter 
four-year institutions with at least some 
of their lower-level requirements met 
through dual enrollment or possession of an AA degree, which will require 
the four-year school to concentrate 
resources on upper-division education.
 ⊲There will be a gap in college 
preparedness for many post-pandemic 
students. Higher-education institutions 
must be responsive to a wide range of 
student wants and needs, including the 
imperative to prioritize mental health 
and other student support services.
 ⊲Funding challenges will continue to 
affect the student population. Millennials 
have more income but less wealth than 
older Americans had at the same age, 
due in part to student loan debt, and this 
will be a challenge in terms of funding 
their education.
Economic Climate
 ⊲Economic inequality and uncertainty 
will continue to grow during the next 
ten years, with a larger segment of the 
population living on lower incomes with 
less access to wealth and higher cost of 
living.
 ⊲Business models of universities 
highly dependent upon tuition dollars 
and adjunct faculty will be tested more 
seriously than ever before. ⊲Federal and state funding of higher 
education and research will be an issue 
nationally, particularly in a post-corona 
virus environment.
 ⊲The reliance on philanthropy to 
provide funding support for student 
scholarships, research, and education 
initiatives will continue to increase.
 ⊲Society will expect more of 
universities in any economic climate, and the value of a 4-year degree will 
need to be strongly communicated.
 ⊲The economic climate will continue 
to be volatile. This volatility will require 
increased flexibility and innovation 
by WSU in leveraging each of the six 
campuses to meet student needs.
 ⊲With national declines in community 
college enrollment and transfers, 
connections to community colleges will 
be increasingly important.Assumption  statements will help the WSU system purposefully update the strategic plan on an annual basis. When 
conditions change, strategy needs to be adjusted. An annual review of these assumptions will help the system ensure 
the ongoing relevance of its strategy. The assumptions that follow are based on a pre-COVID-19 environment. Due to the 
impact of the virus and the future implications of COVID-19 for society and economies globally, reviewing, reassessing, 
and updating our assumptions on a regular basis will be even more critical. 
30 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU

Scientific and Technological 
Advances
 ⊲Data privacy issues will continue to 
impact higher education institutions. 
Among the top issues: the need 
to secure student and research 
data, guard against data breaches, 
and demonstrate responsible 
enforcement.
 ⊲Distance learning will be an 
increasingly common option in 
higher education as students seek 
flexible learning options. It may attract 
students who historically would have 
made brick and mortar model their 
first choice. ⊲Technology will continue to develop 
and become more accessible. Tech-
savvy students will expect fast-paced, 
interactive technology, as well as 
new methods to be infused in their 
educational program and learning 
experience. 
 ⊲Many students will have different 
communication skills than previous 
generations due to reliance on 
technology to communicate. As a 
result, many will enter college with 
various verbal and written skills. 
 ⊲Students will continue to be 
challenged by their instructors to 
engage in more personal interactions, as more of them will have been 
raised with social media being their 
primary form of communication and 
connection.
 ⊲Climate change and societal 
disruptions will impact education 
environments, requiring universities 
to be flexible in using technology to 
meet student needs.
 ⊲As digital technology tools advance 
at a rapid pace, it will be increasingly 
important for higher education to 
implement institutional programs 
which derive tangible value from their 
data in an ethical and sustainable 
way.Legislative and Regulatory
 ⊲Population loss and economic shifts 
will continue to lead to the restructuring 
of major university systems. Structural 
changes in university systems, such as 
campus mergers, will be the subject of 
legislative activity in many states.
 ⊲The national focus on college 
affordability will continue, and state 
officials—from the capital to the 
campus—will likely feel more pressure 
to hold down the price of higher 
education. Higher education institutions 
that have traditionally relied on tuition 
and related fees, as well as government 
appropriations for revenue, will need to diversify and pursue alternative 
revenue streams. 
 ⊲An increased focus on sustainability 
in all its forms will continue to reshape 
policies and procedures at all levels 
of universities across the nation. 
Responding adequately to many 
of the issues will require additional 
funding. Increased policy and political 
pressure from the federal government 
may negatively impact an institution’s 
ability to recruit and retain qualified 
international students.
 ⊲Increased policy and political 
pressure from the federal government 
may negatively impact an institution’s ability to recruit and retain qualified 
international students and employees.
 ⊲There will be continued uncertainty 
about immigration and other federal 
policies that will impact the flow of 
students around the globe and to 
higher education institutions in the 
United States.
 ⊲If proposed cuts in federal funding for 
the arts and humanities are enacted, 
societal relief in terms of access to 
arts and culture will diminish, thus 
increasing stress and increasing 
disparity in access. Universities 
will be increasingly challenged to 
communicate the value of arts and 
humanities.
Higher Education
 ⊲Institutions must adapt to the 
challenges and “new normal” 
confronting society as a result of the 
corona virus pandemic. There will be 
long-term effects of learning disruption 
and lost socialization which will require 
increased flexibility and adaptation for 
both employees and students. 
 ⊲As higher education is increasingly 
commodified, the role and purpose 
of the liberal arts and humanities will 
continue to be questioned. Current national-level discussions indicate the 
liberal arts are again likely to be more 
highly valued in the short-term future.
 ⊲Reformation of core financial and 
educational practices, and greater 
business complexity, will require 
colleges and universities to provide 
greater transparency and implement 
new accountability structures to sustain 
public trust.
 ⊲Occupations that require highly 
specific skillsets will more frequently 
emerge and disappear, requiring 
institutions to be able to quickly establish—and eliminate—degrees as 
dictated by the marketplace.
 ⊲A greater number of university 
administrative and service functions 
(e.g., financial management, housing, 
student services) will be privatized.
 ⊲In an era in which the value of 
higher education is being questioned 
at unprecedented levels, land-grant 
universities must recommit themselves 
to serving their local communities as 
part of the effort to demonstrate their 
value.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
31
32 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
01. 02.
03. 04.Goal 3: Outreach, 
Extension, Service, & 
EngagementGoal 1: Research, 
Innovation, and 
CreativityGoal 2: Student 
Experience
Goal 4: Institutional 
Effectiveness & 
Infrastructure
3-5 YEAR OUTCOME-ORIENTED 
GOALS
Goals  are outcome-oriented statements that represent what will constitute the organization’s future success. The 
achievement of each goal will move WSU toward the realization of its vision. The goals below are not prioritized. Every 
goal will need to be accomplished if the organization is to fully achieve its vision. Each goal is accompanied by a set of 
objectives, which represent key issues affecting WSU’s ability to achieve the goal and articulate milestones against which to 
measure progress. Possible strategies for reaching objectives are also identified. The prioritization of the goals, objectives, 
and strategies will be determined by the university community as part of the implementation of this plan.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
33
Goal 1: Research, Innovation, 
and Creativity
Washington State University will be 
recognized for embracing risk and bold 
thinking to serve the needs of its communities 
through innovative research, scholarship, and 
creative activities. 
Objectives 
 ⊲Expand research, scholarship, and creative activities 
that cross disciplines and employ new methodologies to 
address community needs and twenty-first century global 
challenges.
 ⊲Increase WSU’s ability to highlight its achievements and 
their societal impact.
 ⊲Maximize the ability to shape research, creative activity, 
and entrepreneurship in direct partnership with the 
communities the university serves. 
 ⊲Enhance WSU’s ability to pursue, retain, and reward 
exceptional talent committed to creativity and bold 
thinking.
 ⊲Promote sustainable external partnerships to accelerate 
innovation and maximize the impact of the university’s 
discoveries.Possible strategies
 ⊲Grow the global impact of WSU’s research by building 
additional partnerships with leading universities, research 
institutes, and corporations in the United States and 
abroad.
 ⊲Create cross-disciplinary research teams that build on 
WSU’s strengths in order to accelerate innovation and 
maximize impact.
 ⊲Establish community advisory groups in key research 
domains to allow researchers and stakeholders to 
propose ideas and get feedback. Leverage the WSU 
Extension network to partner with faculty, staff, and 
students to give university-led research greater impact.
 ⊲Invest in state-of-the art instruments, facilities, and 
administrative infrastructure to provide the necessary 
support for a modern research environment.
 ⊲Actively recruit and retain research-focused faculty, 
graduate students, and staff from under-represented 
backgrounds, and create more positions for research-
focused only faculty.
 ⊲Revise system-wide tenure and promotion policies 
to recognize and reward community-based research 
partnerships and entrepreneurial activities that include 
incentives for strategic risk-taking, bold thinking, 
interdisciplinary research activities, and high-impact 
achievements, in addition to the traditional metrics.01.
34 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
Washington State University students 
will engage in scholarship, research, and 
experiential learning activities to prepare 
future leaders, scholars, and global citizens.
Objectives
 ⊲Increase educational affordability geared toward 
improving the completion and graduation rates of 
students. Increase career development resources for all 
students starting with their first year.
 ⊲Ensure every WSU student has the opportunity to 
participate in experiential learning and community 
engagement (e.g., service learning, internships, 
undergraduate research, creative discovery, study 
abroad, and/or leadership).
 ⊲Enhance the quality of the undergraduate academic 
experience with an eye toward greater mastery of 
learning goals along with increased student retention and 
graduation rates.
 ⊲Strengthen collaborations with industry partners to 
enhance the student experience, including practicums, 
internships, and research opportunities.
 ⊲Nurture and promote mental, physical, and social 
wellbeing among students.Possible strategies 
 ⊲Develop a need-based financial aid model that 
eliminates unmet need over $1,000.
 ⊲Establish a baseline of career services offered 
throughout the WSU system and significantly increase 
funding levels to ensure the career services provided 
align with industry standards.
 ⊲Ensure every degree program identifies or develops 
required experiential learning activities and that there is 
a system-wide ePortfolio solution that documents and 
showcases these experiences.
 ⊲Expand institutional support for pedagogical and 
curricular innovations along with faculty professional 
development in teaching.
 ⊲Establish baseline wellness services on all campuses 
and fund the proposal by the WSU Campus and 
Community Health Task Force to infuse an emotional 
wellbeing curriculum throughout the WSU experience, 
both in and out of the classroom.
Goal 2: Student 
Experience02.
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
35
Washington State University will be a national leader 
in advancing quality of life, economic development, 
sustainability, and equity through meaningful 
engagement in discovery, education, and service with 
partners throughout the state, nation, and world.
Objectives
 ⊲Improve and implement cohesive, system-wide mechanisms for 
assessing and communicating the impact and value of outreach, 
Extension, service, and engagement.
 ⊲Increase the alignment of WSU priorities with the needs, 
challenges, and opportunities in the state of Washington identified 
via outreach, Extension, service, and engagement activities. 
 ⊲Increase outreach, Extension, service, and engagement activities 
across all colleges, all campuses, and throughout the state, as an 
essential element to achieving WSU’s land-grant mission.
 ⊲Increase and enhance partnerships with under-represented 
communities.
 ⊲Increase university-wide resource investment in outreach, 
Extension, service, and engagement activities.
 ⊲Increase the impact of outreach, Extension, service, and 
engagement activities to improve human health.
Possible strategies
 ⊲Provide training for all WSU personnel, including new hires, to learn 
about the university’s land-grant history and mission, to improve 
and coordinate communication, and embed in the WSU brand 
the importance/advantages of outreach, Extension, service, and 
engagement activities at a land-grant university.
 ⊲Implement university-wide systems to better incentivize and reward 
programs and individuals to engage in outreach, Extension, and 
service activities (e.g., tenure/promotion portfolios).
 ⊲Leverage Extension by creating programs and processes that forge 
linkages (e.g., faculty affiliations, joint grant and project work, and 
student engagement); increase participation in outreach, Extension, 
service, and engagement activities by academic units; and inform/
benefit the university’s teaching and research missions.
 ⊲Develop and implement a university requirement that WSU 
students learn about and participate in outreach, Extension, service, 
and engagement activities as an essential part of the student 
experience.
 ⊲Prioritize outreach, Extension, service, and engagement activities 
as a strategy for diversifying extramural resource acquisition.03.Goal 3: Outreach, Extension, 
Service, & Engagement
36 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
WSU will advance a culture of engagement and 
collaboration across its multi-campus system that 
values and invests in resources—physical, financial, 
human, and intellectual—leveraging these to 
become the social and economic drivers for the 
community, the state, and the world.
Objectives
 ⊲Budget and planning:  
 ⊲Align financial resources with strategic plan goals.
 ⊲Engage in integrated planning of current educational 
programs and research efforts to maintain and strengthen their 
quality.
 ⊲Modernization of infrastructure:  Modernize facilities, 
technology, business practices, and campus environments to 
be safe, sustainable, and supportive for future areas of growth 
and leading-edge practices in teaching, learning, and research.
 ⊲System:  Enhance overall internal buy-in for the WSU system 
and appreciation for all of its assets and components.
 ⊲Staff recruitment and retention:  Increase the hiring and 
retention of exceptional faculty and staff—who represent diversity 
in all its forms—to advance research and the educational 
experience.
Possible strategies
 ⊲Produce an annual operating budget that promotes 
transparency around the current allocation of resources and 
informs the planning of future incentive-based budget models.
 ⊲Promote an enhanced infrastructure and technology planning 
process incorporating input from a wide range of internal 
stakeholders to prioritize deferred maintenance and long-term 
technology needs that support WSU’s aspirational growth.
 ⊲Form a team representative of the system and all its 
components to identify hindering and helping forces to promote 
system-wide best practices, opportunities for local decision-
making, and collaboration based on a set of shared values and 
principles.
 ⊲Continue to advance and enhance programs focused on 
the hiring and retention of diverse faculty and staff including 
recruitment initiatives, training, mentoring/equity advisor 
programs, and university and community resources. 04.Goal 4: Institutional 
Effectiveness & Infrastructure
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
37
 APPENDIX
1: WSU System Locations
2: Campus Profiles
3: Strategic Plan Metrics
4: Definition of Planning Terms
5: Strategic Planning Key Steps and Timeline
6: Strategic Planning and Institutional 
Effectiveness Council (SPIEC) Membership
38
APPENDIX 1:  
WSU SYSTEM LOCATIONS 
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
39
APPENDIX 2: CAMPUS PROFILES
WSU operates at campuses and locations throughout the state of Washington. The following profiles are based on when 
the 2020-2025 system strategic plan was created.
WSU Everett
WSU Everett is student- and community-centered, 
bringing industry-aligned undergraduate programs with an 
interdisciplinary focus to the North Puget Sound region to 
prepare students to compete globally in the local economy. 
The campus offers junior- and senior-level courses in seven 
high-demand bachelor’s degree programs, including data 
analytics, engineering, hospitality business management, 
and integrated strategic communication. It also serves as a 
clinical campus for the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine 
based in Spokane. WSU Everett is located in a four-story facility constructed in downtown Everett that opened in 2017. 
The campus enrolls nearly 300 students.
Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 244
 ⊲Undergraduate: 244
 ⊲Students of color: 32.4%
 ⊲International: 6.4% 
 ⊲Women: 27.9%
 ⊲First generation: 40.2%
WSU Everett Current Strategic Plan 
(https://everett.wsu.edu/wsu-everett-strategic-plan/)
WSU Global Campus 
In addition to serving students through its brick-and-mortar 
campuses, the university also reaches out to the residents of 
Washington and beyond through the WSU Global Campus, 
which delivers degrees online, and professional education, 
which includes a range of non-credit continuing education 
programs, such as seminars, workshops, conferences, 
trade expositions, and online certificates. Several of these 
programs have earned national acclaim. The WSU Global 
Campus serves more than 3,000 students through its online 
offerings. With programs in fields including accounting, 
management, management information systems, economics, 
data analytics, criminal justice, human development, 
humanities, social sciences, integrated strategic 
communications, and psychology, students around the world have access to WSU’s world-class faculty and academic 
programs regardless of geography. 
Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 3,839
 ⊲Undergraduate: 2,589
 ⊲Graduate: 1,250 
 ⊲Students of color: 33%
 ⊲International: 3.0%
 ⊲Women: 63.5% 
 ⊲First generation: 30.7%
WSU Global Campus Current Strategic Plan 
(development of plan in process)
WSU Pullman
The Pullman campus is the oldest (founded 1890) and largest 
campus in the WSU system. Most of the system’s senior 
administrative team, including WSU’s president and provost, 
are based in Pullman. Enrollment totaled 20,976 students 
for the 2019 fall semester. About 1,500 faculty, supported by 
1,600 graduate assistants and 2,900 administrators and staff, 
work on the Pullman campus. WSU Pullman offers studies in 
more than 200 undergraduate, graduate, and professional 
programs.
Due to significant investments from the state as well as 
private and federal support, outstanding new campus 
facilities have been constructed and others upgraded 
during the past decade. Major new facilities include a digital 
classroom building, multiple plant sciences facilities, a 
multicultural center, a veterinary and biomedical research 
building, and the PACCAR Environmental Technology 
Building.
The Pullman campus is the foundation of the WSU research 
enterprise. WSU is ranked as a “very high research activity” 
institution by the Carnegie Foundation and is in the top 12 percent of research universities as reported by the National 
Science Foundation. Researchers on the WSU Pullman 
campus are exploring new ways to improve food and 
nutrition, energy and the environment, health and well-
being, next-generation materials and technologies, and how 
to build equitable and thriving communities.
Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 17,827 
 ⊲Undergraduate: 15,578 
 ⊲Graduate: 1,789 
 ⊲Professional: 460 
 ⊲Students of color: 31% 
 ⊲International: 7.2% 
 ⊲Women: 50.5% 
 ⊲First generation: 28.8%
WSU Pullman Current Strategic Plan 
(development of plan in process)
40 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
WSU Health Sciences Spokane
Located 75 miles north of Pullman, WSU Spokane is the 
university’s 48-acre urban health sciences campus. Situated 
in Spokane’s University District, the campus is home to 
WSU’s College of Medicine, College of Nursing, and College 
of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences and serves as the 
hub for educating the state’s future generations of health 
professionals. WSU Spokane houses the latest in health 
science laboratories and classroom technology along with 
the Steve Gleason Institute for Neuroscience and the Native 
American Health Sciences programs. Research focus areas 
include autism, Native and rural health, drug delivery and 
safety, neurological diseases, and sleep.Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 1,427
 ⊲Undergraduate: 475 
 ⊲Graduate: 262 
 ⊲Professional: 690
 ⊲Students of color: 38.4%
 ⊲International: 2.4%
 ⊲Women: 72.3% 
 ⊲First generation: 29.6%
WSU Health Sciences Spokane Current Strategic Plan 
(development of plan in process)
WSU Tri-Cities
WSU Tri-Cities is located on 200 acres along the banks of 
the Columbia River in the southeastern part of the state. The 
campus serves more than 1,400 students by offering 50-
plus undergraduate and graduate degree programs, many 
of them in STEM-related disciplines. The Ste. Michelle Wine 
Estates WSU Wine Science Center opened on campus in 
2016. The facility—one of the most technologically advanced 
wine science centers in the world—represents the thriving 
partnership between the Pacific Northwest wine industry and 
WSU. The campus also is home to the Bioproducts, Sciences, 
and Engineering Laboratory, built in partnership with nearby 
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. In addition, WSU Tri-Cities serves as a clinical campus for the Elson S. Floyd 
College of Medicine.
Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 1,430
 ⊲Undergraduate: 1,282
 ⊲Graduate: 148
 ⊲Students of color: 50.2%
 ⊲International: 1.6% 
 ⊲Women: 60.2% 
 ⊲First generation: 46%
WSU Tri-Cities Current Strategic Plan 
(https://tricities.wsu.edu/administration-and-leadership-at-
wsu-tri-cities/campus-strategic-planning/)
WSU Vancouver
WSU Vancouver offers big-school resources in a small-school 
environment. Now enrolling nearly 3,000 students, WSU 
Vancouver provides affordable, high-quality baccalaureate- 
and graduate-level education to benefit the people and 
communities it serves. As the only four-year research 
university in Southwest Washington, WSU Vancouver 
helps drive economic growth through relationships with 
regional businesses and industries, schools, and nonprofit 
organizations. Areas of research focus include sustainable 
water, brain health, and smart devices. WSU Vancouver also 
serves as a clinical campus for the Elson. S. Floyd College 
of Medicine. Ninety-five percent of WSU Vancouver alumni remain in the region after graduation to live, work, and 
contribute to their communities.
Student Profile, Fall 2022
 ⊲Total enrollment: 2,833
 ⊲Undergraduate: 2,505
 ⊲Graduate: 328 
 ⊲Students of color: 35.1%
 ⊲International: 2.1% 
 ⊲Women: 52.3% 
 ⊲First generation: 42.5%
WSU Vancouver Current Strategic Plan 
(https://www.vancouver.wsu.edu/strategic-plan)
WSU Extension
With locations throughout the state, WSU Extension is the 
front door to the university. Extension builds the capacity 
of individuals, organizations, businesses, and communities, 
empowering them to find solutions for local issues and to 
improve their quality of life. Extension collaborates with 
communities to create a culture of life-long learning and is 
recognized for its accessible, learner-centered, relevant, 
high-quality, unbiased educational programs. WSU Extension 
partners with businesses, communities, and volunteers 
to develop programs that drive innovation, invention, and 
technology transfer. Extension offers programs statewide 
that address a wide range of topics, including digital 
inclusion, food safety, horticulture, parenting, stormwater, and pest management. More than one million individuals 
participate in Extension-managed programs annually.
Extension County Offices
 ⊲One in each of the 39 counties in the state of 
Washington
Research and Extension Centers
 ⊲Mount Vernon Northwestern Washington Research and 
Extension Center
 ⊲Prosser Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension 
Center
 ⊲Puyallup Research and Extension Center
 ⊲Wenatchee Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
41
APPENDIX 3:  
STRATEGIC PLAN 
METRICS
For current priorities and metrics, please see the annual 
report for the WSU System Strategic Plan. 
Goal 1: Research, Innovation, and Creativity:  Washington 
State University will be recognized for embracing risk and 
bold thinking to serve the needs of its communities through 
innovative research, scholarship, and creative activities.
Objectives
1. Expand research, scholarship, and creative 
activities that cross disciplines and employ new 
methodologies to address community needs and 
twenty-first century global challenges.
2. Increase WSU’s ability to highlight its achievements 
and their societal impact.
3. Maximize the ability to shape research, creative 
activity, and entrepreneurship in direct partnership 
with the communities the university serves.
4. Enhance WSU’s ability to pursue, retain, and reward 
exceptional talent committed to creativity and bold 
thinking.
5. Promote sustainable external partnerships to 
accelerate innovation and maximize the impact of 
the university’s discoveries.
Metrics
 ⊲Licensing agreements
o Licensing revenue
o Number of agreements
 ⊲Research and development expenditures per full-time, 
tenured/tenure track faculty (T/TT)
o Federal R&D
o Total R&D
 ⊲Graduate and professional degrees awarded per T/TT
 ⊲Faculty promotions: Associate to Full Professor
Goal 2: Student Experience:   Washington State University 
students will engage in scholarship, research, and 
experiential learning activities to prepare future leaders, 
scholars, and global citizens.
Objectives
1. Increase educational affordability geared toward 
improving the completion and graduation rates of 
students.
2. Increase career development resources for all 
students starting with their first year.
3. Ensure every WSU student has the opportunity to 
participate in experiential learning and community 
engagement (e.g., service learning, internships, undergraduate research, creative discovery, study 
abroad, and/or leadership).
4. Enhance the quality of the undergraduate academic 
experience with an eye toward greater mastery 
of learning goals along with increased student 
retention and graduation rates.
5. Nurture and promote mental, physical, and social 
wellbeing among students.
Metrics
 ⊲Affordability Index 
 ⊲Percentage of need met for undergrad students 
awarded any need-based aid 
 ⊲Number of degree-seeking undergrads with 
no financial need who received non-need-based 
scholarship or grant aid (exclude athletic awards and 
tuition benefits)
 ⊲Average dollar amount of institutional non-need-
based scholarship or grant aid awarded to degree-
seeking undergrads with no financial need
 ⊲Proportion of need-based vs. non-need-based aid 
(scholarships, institutional aid, tuition and fees
 ⊲Retention Rates
 ⊲Pell
 ⊲First generation
 ⊲Race/ethnicity
 ⊲Sex
 ⊲6-year graduation rate
 ⊲Pell
 ⊲First generation
 ⊲Race/ethnicity
 ⊲Sex
 ⊲Number of students engaged in experiential learning 
and community engagement
 ⊲# students involved in undergraduate research
 ⊲# students in study abroad programs
 ⊲# students in service learning
 ⊲# students in internships
 ⊲Number of doctorates awarded
 ⊲# of PhDs
 ⊲# of MDs
 ⊲# of EdDs
 ⊲# of DVMs
 ⊲# of PharmDs
 ⊲Social mobility index
o Percent Pell
 ⊲6-year Graduation rate
 ⊲8-Year Graduation rate
 ⊲Net price
 ⊲# of Pell recipients earning bachelor’s degrees
42 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
Goal 3: Outreach, Extension, Service, and Engagement:  
Washington State University will be a national leader 
in advancing quality of life, economic development, 
sustainability, and equity through meaningful engagement in 
discovery, education, and service with partners throughout 
the state, nation, and world.
Objectives
1. Improve and implement cohesive, system-wide 
mechanisms for assessing and communicating the 
impact and value of outreach, Extension, service, 
and engagement.
2. Increase outreach, Extension, service, and 
engagement activities across all colleges, all 
campuses, and throughout the state, as an essential 
element to achieving WSU’s land-grant mission. 
3. Increase and enhance partnerships with under-
represented communities.
4. Increase the impact of outreach, Extension, service, 
and engagement activities to improve human 
health.
5. Increase the alignment of WSU priorities with the 
needs, challenges, and opportunities in the state 
of Washington identified via outreach, Extension, 
service, and engagement activities.
6. Increase university-wide resource investment in 
outreach, Extension, service, and engagement 
activities.
Metrics
 ⊲Outreach, Extension, service, and engagement activities 
of campuses, colleges, schools, and units
 ⊲Total # of activities
 ⊲# of activities focused on improving human health 
outcomes
 ⊲# of participants; learning hours in activities
 ⊲Total # of external partnerships
 ⊲# of external partnerships with under-represented 
communities
 ⊲Sponsored funding for community-engaged research 
initiatives with external partners that addresses key 
quality-of-life indicators (economic growth, health, 
environment) in the state of Washington
 ⊲Media stories (featuring WSU’s impact on the state, 
nation, and globally)
 ⊲Number
 ⊲Reach
 ⊲Social Engagement and Service
 ⊲# of students in ROTC programs
 ⊲# of alumni service projects
 ⊲# of WSU colleges that provide matching funds for 
undergraduate students who receive Segal AmeriCorps 
Education Award for having completed national service
 ⊲Voting engagement
 ⊲Amount of volunteer time contributed (Extension)Goal 4: Institutional Effectiveness and Infrastructure: WSU 
will advance a culture of engagement and collaboration 
across its multi-campus system that values and invests in 
resources—physical, financial, human, and intellectual—
leveraging these to become the social and economic drivers 
for the community, the state, and the world.
Objectives
1. Budget and planning: 
 ⊲Align financial resources with strategic plan goals.
 ⊲Engage in integrated planning of current educational 
programs and research efforts to maintain and 
strengthen their quality. 
2. Modernization of infrastructure: Modernize facilities, 
technology, business practices, and campus 
environments to be safe, sustainable, and 
supportive for future areas of growth and leading-
edge practices in teaching, learning, and research.
3. System: Enhance overall internal buy-in for the WSU 
system and appreciation for all of its assets and 
components.
4. Staff recruitment and retention: Increase the hiring 
and retention of exceptional faculty and staff—who 
represent diversity in all its forms—to advance 
research and the educational experience. 
Metrics
 ⊲Percent of faculty/staff diversity
 ⊲Facility condition index (FCI)
 ⊲Reserves
 ⊲University reserves
 ⊲Central reserves
 ⊲Return on investment (from alignment of goals and 
strategies)
 ⊲Annual giving
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
43
APPENDIX 4:  
DEFINITION OF PLANNING TERMS
 ⊲CORE IDEOLOGY
 ⊲An organization’s consistent identity that transcends all changes related to its relevant environment. Core ideology 
consists of two notions: core mission—the organization’s reason for being, and core beliefs and values—essential and 
enduring principles that drive the organization.
 ⊲MISSION
 ⊲The fundamental purpose for which the institution exists.
 ⊲BELIEFS AND VALUES
 ⊲Essential and enduring tenets that guide behavior and decision-making and shape institutional culture.
 ⊲VISION
 ⊲What the institution seeks to be or become within a future time horizon–consists of a big goal statement and vivid 
descriptions.
 ⊲ASSUMPTIONS
 ⊲Future-oriented statements that serve as projections about the future environment that the institution is likely to be 
operating in as it moves toward achievement of its vision.
 ⊲GOALS 
 ⊲Outcome-oriented statements, worded in the future tense, that describe what will be achieved for stakeholders, and 
the progress that will be made toward the long-range vision. 
 ⊲OBJECTIVES
 ⊲Measurable, attainable milestones that describe progress toward key issues affecting the ability to achieve the 
goal, and what would constitute success in observable or measurable terms. Indicates a direction—increase, expand, 
decrease, reduce, consolidate, abandon, improve, distribute, or enhance.
 ⊲METRICS
 ⊲Numeric or data-oriented milestones to achieve by a specific point in time on the way to accomplishing the goal. 
Describes the measure or change that will be used to assess progress and set future benchmarks and targets.
 ⊲TACTICS
 ⊲Specific actions taken by the institution to commit its resources to accomplishing the goal. Brings focus to operational 
allocation of resources. Indicates an activity—redesign, refine, identify, revise, develop, implement, create, or establish.
44 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
August 2018—March 2019
Step 1: Setting the Stage
 ⊲Analyze the 2018 WSU accreditation report completed 
by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and 
Universities 
 ⊲Develop planning model for creating a new strategic 
plan
 ⊲Launch the planning process with communication from 
President Schulz 
 ⊲Conduct system-wide listening sessions on current 
strategic plan
January—April 2019
Step 2: Expanding the Effort
 ⊲Analyze data from initial listening sessions
 ⊲Create Strategic Planning and Institutional Effectiveness 
Council (SPIEC), with system-wide representation
 ⊲Engage senior leadership teams—president’s cabinet, 
deans, campuses, colleges—in strategic dialogue about 
the WSU system
May 2019
Step 3: Convening the Community: Land-grant 
Symposium
 ⊲Host full day, system-wide dialogue focused on the 
future of land-grant institutions
 ⊲Explore in-depth the three primary elements of WSU’s 
land-grant mission: teaching, research, and service
June—September 2019
Step 4: Building a Knowledge Base
 ⊲Design environmental scanning process
 ⊲Design knowledge repository
 ⊲Evaluate knowledge gaps
 ⊲Engage in quantitative/qualitative research with internal 
and external stakeholders
 ⊲Survey community online about purpose, values, vision, 
goals, and assumptions
 ⊲Create “What We Know” document
October 2019
Step 5: Convening the Community: Visioning 
Conference
 ⊲Gather community input regarding:
 ⊲Assumptions about the future
 ⊲SWOT analysis ⊲Core purpose and core values
 ⊲Envisioned future (big goal/vivid descriptions)
 ⊲Short-term, outcome-oriented goals and objectives
October—November 2019
Step 6: Crafting the Plan: Concept Teams
 ⊲Form concept teams 
 ⊲Teams draft goals, objectives, and strategies to be 
included in the strategic plan based on input from the 
visioning conference, “What We Know” document, and 
associated research 
December 2019
Step 7: Strategic Plan Document Drafting
 ⊲Draft the first iteration of the strategic plan
 ⊲Relying on the input gathered, a small team writes the 
first draft of the plan 
 ⊲The draft addresses purpose, values, and vision and 
goals, as well as underlying assumptions about the 
future
February 3—February 24, 2020
Step 8: Stakeholder Input on Draft Strategic Plan
 ⊲Community provides comments about the draft plan
 ⊲Draft plan is revised to incorporate feedback received
March—June 2020
Step 9: Strategic Plan Submitted to WSU Board of 
Regents
 ⊲Regents review, comment, and approve plan APPENDIX 5: STRATEGIC PLANNING 
KEY STEPS AND TIMELINE
Planning Process and Timeline
The planning process incorporated nine steps that took place between August 2018 and June 2020. 
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN
45
APPENDIX 6:  
WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN 
COORDINATING COUNCIL (SSPCC)
The SSPCC’s primary purpose is to ensure implementation of the Washington State University System Strategic Plan. It is 
also formed to help ensure integration between the plan and other major planning processes, as well as alignment between 
the system strategic plan and campus, college, and unit strategic plans.
The SSPCC is charged with overseeing implementation of the WSU System Strategic Plan with the following four key 
purposes: 
 ⊲Monitoring progress toward system goals and objectives 
and preparing progress reports for system leadership and 
members of the Board of Regents. 
 ⊲ Serving as a steward of the system strategic plan and 
facilitating processes that keep campuses, colleges, and 
units aligned and responsible to the plan. ⊲ Serving as a coordinating team to help integrate major 
institutional planning processes across the system. 
 ⊲ Providing regular communications to the WSU 
community about developments and progress of the plan. 
The SSPCC may execute its responsibilities in phases to first focus on its primary purpose of system strategic plan 
implementation. Over time and as the institution’s planning functions and processes mature, both the institution and the 
SSPCC will develop capacity and capabilities to achieve institutional planning alignment and integration.  
The SSPCC may accomplish its work through the appointment of subcommittees or ad hoc committees to address specific 
needs or carry out specific projects.
Goal Leads : Goal Leads serve as liaisons between the SSPCC and the unit(s), councils, committees, or task forces assigned 
to make progress on their respective goal area objectives. They will also work in collaboration with the Office of Strategy, 
Planning, and Analysis (including the Office of Institutional Research).They are responsible for communicating to the SSPCC 
the strategies and timelines that will be employed to achieve the system goal and objectives. They are also responsible for 
status reporting on progress made and for contributing to progress reports that will be provided to institutional leadership 
and the Board of Regents. As a first order of business, the Goal Leads will be determined by the Standing Member vice 
presidents and chancellors when the SSPCC first convenes and will be evaluated each year thereafter according to the 
appointment term guidelines.
STANDING MEMBERS
 ⊲ Vice President for Strategy, Planning, and Analysis 
(Chair)
 ⊲Provost (or designee)
 ⊲Vice President for Finance and Administration (or 
designee)
 ⊲Vice President for Health Sciences (or designee)
 ⊲Vice President for Marketing and Communications (or 
designee)
 ⊲Vice President for Research (or designee)
 ⊲Chancellors (or designees)
 ⊲Everett
 ⊲Global
 ⊲Pullman
 ⊲Spokane
 ⊲Tri-Cities
 ⊲VancouverGOAL LEAD MEMBERS
 ⊲Goal 1 Lead(s)
 ⊲Goal 2 Lead(s)
 ⊲Goal 3 Lead(s)
 ⊲Goal 4 Lead(s)
EX OFFICIO MEMBERS
 ⊲Executive Director, Institutional Research
 ⊲Director of Strategic Communication, Office of Strategy, 
Planning, and Analysis
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
 ⊲Executive Assistant and Project Specialist, Office of 
Strategy, Planning, and Analysis
46 STRATEGY.WSU.EDU
2020-2025 WSU SYSTEM STRATEGIC PLAN47
WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY
SYSTEM
STRATEGIC  
PLAN
STRATEGY.WSU.EDUUPDATED FALL 2022
